Item 1. BUSINESS







OVERVIEW



Cigna Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (either individually or collectively referred to as “Cigna,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a global health service organization.



Our MissionTo improve the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serveOur StrategyGo Deeper:To expand and deepen our customer, client and partner relationships and create depth in targeted sub-segments and geographiesGo Local:To ensure our solution suite and services meet customer, client and partner needs at a local market levelGo Beyond:To innovate and further differentiate our businesses, the experiences we deliver and our overall social impactHow We Win



Cigna is an enterprise uniquely capable of delivering affordability, predictability and simplicity of health care to those we serve. We have broad and deep capabilities that accelerate our strategy to achieve our mission of improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve. Cigna’s employees are champions for the people we serve and over the past decade, our focus has shifted to helping people thrive by offering solutions to prevent and better manage health challenges. When sickness or disability do occur, we support our customers’ ability to have broad choices in how they best access high quality, affordable care. We see three primary ways to help individuals maintain, improve or recover their physical or mental health: 1) behavioral and lifestyle changes – with over 1,000 health coaches helping individuals set and meet health goals; 2) pharmaceutical interventions – with our leading pharmacy services improving health and driving affordability; and 3) medical and surgical interventions – with a clear and proven strategy around partnerships and value-based care programs, powered by applied informatics and aligned incentives. We maximize use of evidence-based care, while delivering best-in-class quality of care for our customers with acute and chronic conditions through enhanced real-time data across an expanded platform with industry-leading solutions to support care decisions.



We offer a differentiated set of pharmacy, medical, behavioral, dental, disability, life and accident insurance and related products and services. Our capabilities include: 1) a broad portfolio of specialty services, some of which can be offered on a stand-alone basis; 2) integrated behavioral, medical and pharmacy management services; 3) leading specialty pharmacy expertise; and 4) advanced analytics that help us engage more meaningfully with individuals, plan sponsors we serve and our provider partners. These capabilities enhance Cigna’s ability to drive improved cost affordability, quality of care and predictability.



We put medicine within reach for patients and help providers improve access to prescription drugs by making them more affordable. We improve patient outcomes and better manage the cost of the pharmacy benefit by:



Identifying products and offering innovative solutions that improve patient outcomes and control costs

Evaluating medicines for efficacy, value and price to assist clients in selecting a cost-effective formulary





Offering home delivery and specialty services that save money for clients and customers while providing better and specialized clinical care

Leveraging purchasing volume to deliver discounts drive risk-sharing and value-based care across the pharmaceutical supply chain

Promoting the use of generics and lowest cost, clinically effective brands of medications



We work with key stakeholders across the health care system to improve health outcomes and patient satisfaction, increase efficiency in drug distribution and manage costs of the pharmacy benefit. In 2019, we launched three major initiatives: 1) the Patient AssuranceSMprogram that offers diabetic customers a low, fixed monthly out-of-pocket cost for insulin; 2) the Embarc Benefit ProtectionSMprogram that improves care, access and affordability for potentially life-changing medicines that are extremely costly and 3) our Digital Health Formulary that helps clients and customers get the most value from innovative digital health products. Plan sponsors and participants can achieve the best health and financial outcomes when they use our comprehensive set of solutions to manage drug spend.



We present the financial results of our businesses in the following segments:



Health Servicesincludes pharmacy benefits management, specialty pharmacy services, clinical solutions, home delivery and health management services.



Integrated Medicaloffers a variety of health care solutions to employers and individuals.



TheCommercialoperating segment serves employers (also referred to as “clients”) and their employees (also referred to as “customers”) and other groups. This segment provides deeply integrated medical and specialty offerings including medical, pharmacy, behavioral health, dental, vision, health advocacy programs and other products and services to insured and self-insured clients.

TheGovernmentoperating segment offers Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D plans (including the acquired Express Scripts’ Medicare Part D business) for seniors, Medicaid plans and individual health insurance coverage both on and off the public exchanges.



International Marketsincludes supplemental health, life and accident insurance products and health care coverage in our international markets as well as health care benefits to globally mobile employees of multinational organizations.



Group Disability and Othercontains the remainder of our business operations, consisting of the following:



Group Disability and Lifeprovides group long-term and short-term disability, group life, accident, voluntary and specialty insurance products and related services.

Corporate-Owned Life Insurance (“COLI”)offers permanent insurance contracts sold to corporations to provide coverage on the lives of certain employees for financing employer-paid future benefit obligations.

Run-off businesses:

Reinsurance:predominantly comprised of guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) business effectively exited through reinsurance with Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“Berkshire”) in 2013.

Settlement Annuitybusiness in run-off.

Individual Life Insurance and Annuity and Retirement Benefits Businesses:comprised of deferred gains from the sales of these businesses.

Other InformationThe financial information included in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) unless otherwise indicated. In the segment discussions that follow, we use the terms “adjusted revenues” and “pre-tax adjusted income from operations” to describe segment results. See the introduction to the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Form 10-K for definitions of those terms.Industry rankings and percentages set forth herein are for the year ended December 31, 2019 unless otherwise indicated. In addition, statements set forth in this document concerning our rank or position in an industry or particular line of business have been developed internally based on publicly available information unless otherwise noted.





Cigna Holding Company (formerly Cigna Corporation) was incorporated in Delaware in 1981. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in March 2018. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was renamed Cigna Corporation concurrent with the consummation of the combination with Express Scripts on December 20, 2018.



You can access our website at http://www.cigna.com to learn more about our company. We make annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements and amendments to those reports available, free of charge through our website (http://www.cigna.com, under the “Investors—Quarterly Reports and SEC Filings” captions) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under the SEC’s Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cigna is routinely posted on and accessible athttp://www.cigna.com. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is neither incorporated by reference into nor a part of this report. See also “Code of Ethics and Other Corporate Governance Disclosures” in Part III, Item 10 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the availability of our Codes of Ethics on our website.



HEALTH SERVICESThis segment consists of pharmacy benefit management, home delivery and specialty pharmacy and certain health management services. In 2019, Health Services reported adjusted revenues of $96.4 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $5.1 billion.HOW WE WINCreatinginnovative solutions that improve patient outcomes and control costsEvaluatingmedicines for efficacy, value and price to assist clients in selecting a cost-effective formularyOfferinghome delivery and specialty services that save money for clients and customers, while providing better and specialized clinical careLeveragingpurchasing volume to deliver discounts and drive risk-sharing and value-based care across the pharmaceutical supply chainPromotingthe use of generics and lowest-cost, clinically effective brands of medications





The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages.



Principal Products & ServicesBrands/SubsidiariesKey RelationshipsPrimary CompetitorsPharmacy DispensingAccredo®, Therapeutic Resource Centers®, Express Scripts PharmacySM,Cigna Home Delivery PharmacyClients, Customers, ProvidersIndependent Pharmacy Benefit Managers (“PBMs”), Managed Care PBMs, Retail Pharmacies, Specialty PharmaciesSupply Chain Administration and ManagementExpress Scripts, Smart90®, SmartShareRx®, Ascent Health Services, EcondiscClients, CustomersIndependent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third Party Benefit Administrators, Group Purchasing OrganizationsClinical SolutionsHealth Connect 360SM, Advanced Utilization Management, Express Scripts Digital Health Formulary, Fraud, Waste & AbuseClients, CustomersIndependent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third-Party Benefit AdministratorsValue-Based ProgramsSafeGuardRx®, Express Scripts Patient AssuranceSM,Embarc Benefit ProtectionSMClients, CustomersIndependent PBMs, Managed Care PBMsProvider ServicesCuraScript SD®Health Care Providers, Clinics, HospitalsSpecialty Drug DistributorsHealth Benefit Management ServiceseviCoreHealth Plans, Commercial and Government PayorsHealth Plans, Third-Party Benefits Administrators, Clinical Solutions and Health Care Data Analytics Companies



Principal Products & Services



Pharmacy Benefit Management Services:Our services drive high-quality, cost-effective care through prescription drug utilization and cost management.We support our clients’ plan design selections to deliver balanced affordability, choice, simplicity and convenience. We focus our solutions to align with our clients’ needs across care, cost and service. As a result, we believe we deliver better outcomes, higher customer satisfaction and a more affordable prescription drug benefit. The home delivery pharmacy operations of our Health Services segment consist of eight order processing pharmacies, eight patient contact centers and four high-volume automated home delivery dispensing pharmacies located throughout the United States. Health Services’ home delivery dispensing pharmacies are located in Arizona, Indiana, Missouri and New Jersey. Health Services also has seven specialty home delivery pharmacies and 38 specialty branch pharmacies.



Pharmacy Dispensing:

oHome Delivery PharmacyServices:In addition to the order processing that occurs at our home delivery pharmacies, we operate several non-dispensing prescription processing facilities and customer contact centers. Our pharmacies provide greater safety and accuracy than retail pharmacies, convenient access to maintenance medications and better management of our clients’ drug costs through operating efficiencies. We are directly involved with the prescriber and customer through our home delivery pharmacies and our research shows that we achieve a higher level of generic substitutions, therapeutic interventions and better adherence than is achieved through retail pharmacy networks.

oSpecialty Pharmacy Services:Specialty medications are used primarily for the treatment of complex diseases. These medications are broadly characterized to include those with frequent dosing adjustments, intensive clinical monitoring, the need for customer training, specialized product administration requirements or medications limited to certain specialty pharmacy networks by manufacturers. Through a combination of assets and capabilities, we provide an enhanced level of predictable care and therapy management for customers taking specialty medications and increased visibility and improved outcomes for payors, as well as custom programs for biopharmaceutical manufacturers. Accredo Health Group (“Accredo”) is focused on dispensing injectable, infused, oral or inhaled drugs that require a higher level of clinical service and support than traditional pharmacies typically offer. Accredo supports successful outcomes for c





ustomers and reduces waste for clients through specialty trained clinicians, a nationwide footprint, and a network of in-home nursing services, reimbursement and customer assistance programs and biopharmaceutical services.

oDrug Claim Adjudication:We process drug claims for home delivery, specialty, or retail networks by integrating retail network pharmacy administration, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, drug formulary management and pharmacy fulfillment services. We administer payments to retail networks and bill benefits costs to our clients through our end-to-end adjudication services.

oDrug Utilization Review program:When pharmacies submit claims for prescription drugs to us, we review them electronically in real time for health and safety. We then alert the dispensing pharmacy of any detected issues. Clients may also choose to enroll in programs that result in communications about potential therapy concerns being sent to prescribers after the initial claim submission.

Supply Chain Administration and Management:

oRetail Network Pharmacy Administration:We contract with retail pharmacies to provide prescription drugs to customers of the pharmacy benefit plans we manage. In the United States, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, we negotiate with pharmacies to discount drug prices provided to customers and manage national and regional networks responsive to client preferences related to cost containment, convenience of access for customers and network performance. We also manage networks of pharmacies customized for or under direct contract with specific clients and have contracted with pharmacy provider networks to comply with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) access requirements for the federal Medicare Part D prescription drug program (“Medicare Part D”). All retail pharmacies in our network communicate with us online and in real-time to process prescription drug claims. When a plan customer presents their identification card at a network pharmacy, the pharmacy sends specific customer, prescriber and prescription information in an industry-standard format through our systems, which process the claim and respond to the pharmacy with relevant information to process the prescription.

oBenefits Design Consultation:We consult with our clients on how best to structure and leverage the pharmacy benefit to meet plan objectives for affordable access to the prescription medications people need to stay healthy, and ensure the safe and effective use of those medications.

oDrug Formulary Management:Formularies are lists of drugs with designations that may be used to determine drug coverage, customer out-of-pocket costs and communicate plan preferences in competitive drug categories. Our formulary managementservices support clients in establishing formularies that assist customers and physicians in choosing clinically-appropriate, cost-effective drugs and prioritize access, safety and affordability. We administer specific formularies on behalf of our clients, including standard formularies developed and offered by Express Scripts and custom formularies in which we play a more limited role. Most of our clients select standard formularies, governed by our National Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee comprised of a panel of independent physicians and pharmacists in active clinical practice representing a variety of specialties and practice settings, typically with major academic affiliations. In making formulary recommendations, this committee considers only the drug’s safety and efficacy and not the cost of the drug, including any negotiated manufacturer discount or rebate arrangement. This process is designed to ensure the clinical recommendation is not affected by our financial arrangements. We fully comply with this committee’s clinical recommendations regarding drugs that must be included or excluded from the formulary based on their assessment of safety and efficacy.

oAdministration of Group Purchasing Organizations:Express Scripts operates various group purchasing organizations that negotiate pricing for the purchase of pharmaceuticals, fees and formulary rebates with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of their participants. They also provide various administrative services to their participants including management and reporting.

Clinical Solutions:We offer innovative clinical programs to help our clients drive better health outcomes at a lower cost by identifying and addressing potentially unsafe or wasteful prescribing, dispensing and use of prescription drugs and communicating with, or supporting communications with, physicians, pharmacies and customers.

oOur Health Connect 360SMoffering is a transformational, outcomes based clinical management program that bridges pharmacy, medical, lab and patient engagement data to develop insights and deliver personalized health care interventions. Clinical outcomes and quality metrics are tailored to client needs and guaranteed.

oThrough the Express Scripts Digital Health FormularySMoffering, we evaluate digital health solutions available on the market, providing a list to clients of solutions that provide clinical effectiveness, data security, user-friendly experience and financial value.

oAdvanced Utilization Management programs are the number-one tool for decreasing client spend on pharmacy. These include prior authorization, drug quantity management, step therapy and preferred specialty management.

oEnhanced Fraud, Waste & Abuse is an investigative service program that helps plan sponsors identify potential problem customers and prescribers with unusual or excessive utilization patterns. The program is designed to help identify outliers and situations of abnormal use or prescribing patterns by analyzing types of prescriptions, refill patterns and pharmacy utilization.





Other solutions include RationalMed®, ScreenRx®, ExpressAlliance®, Advanced Opioid Management®, and OnePASMofferings, as well as Medication Therapy and Medical Benefit Drug Management.

Value-Based Programs:

o

SafeGuardRx

®

:

We offer a solution platform aimed at therapy classes that pose significant budgetary threats and clinical challenges to patients. Our solutions are designed to keep our clients ahead of the cost curve while providing customers the personalized care and access they need. These solutions are offered throughout our pharmacy benefit management services and include, but are not limited to care for: cardiovascular, diabetes, hepatitis, inflammatory conditions, migraine, multiple sclerosis, oncology, pulmonary,



and rare conditions. Innovative programs, such as our SafeGuardRx program, combine utilization management controls with formulary management, the specialized care model of our Therapeutic Resource Center

®

program and comprehensive guarantees, and help us to change the market in key categories. Through our Therapeutic Resource Center®offering, we provide caring for customers with the most complex and costly chronic conditions including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, HIV, asthma, depression and other rare and specialty conditions. These services optimize the safe and appropriate dispensing of therapeutic agents, minimize waste and improve clinical and financial outcomes. Through these services, specialist pharmacists provide the expert, personalized care that customers increasingly demand. Notably, our programs covering oncology and inflammatory conditions have introduced a value-based contracting approach with payments now tied to a product’s effectiveness.

oPatient Assurance ProgramSM: This program addresses the need for greater affordability and access to insulin by providing a fixed out-of-pocket cost to customers in non-government funded benefit plans.

oEmbarc Benefit ProtectionSM: This program combines health benefit management, health services and specialty pharmacy capabilities to make emerging gene therapy treatments more affordable for the payor, the employer and the patient.

Provider Services:CuraScript SD is a specialty distributor of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies (including injectable and infusible pharmaceuticals and medications to treat specialty and rare or orphan diseases) directly to health care providers, clinics and hospitals in the United States for office or clinic administration. Through this business, we provide distribution services primarily to office and clinic-based physicians who treat customers with chronic diseases and regularly order costly specialty pharmaceuticals. This business provides competitive pricing on pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, operates three distribution centers and ships most products overnight within the United States; it also provides distribution capabilities to Puerto Rico and Guam. It is a contracted supplier with most major group purchasing organizations and leverages our distribution platform to operate as a third-party logistics provider for several pharmaceutical companies.

Health Benefit Management Services:  eviCore is a leading provider of integrated health benefit management solutions that focus on driving adherence to evidence-based guidelines, improving the quality of patient outcomes and reducing the cost of care for our clients. eviCore manages: diagnostic imaging, comprehensive musculoskeletal disorders, sleep disorders, post-acute care, genetic lab, specialty pharmacy and medical oncology. eviCore contracts with health plans and other commercial and government payors to promote the appropriate use of health care services by the customers they serve. In certain instances, this occurs through capitated risk arrangements, when we assume the financial obligation for the cost of health care services provided to eligible customers covered by eviCore health care management programs.



Customers



Clients:We provide services to managed care organizations, health insurers, third-party administrators, employers, union-sponsored benefit plans, workers’ compensation plans, government health programs, providers, clinics, hospitals and others.

Patients:Prescription drugs are dispensed to patients connected to the service offerings we provide to clients. Prescription drugs are dispensed primarily through networks of retail pharmacies under non-exclusive contracts with us and through our home delivery and specialty drug fulfillment pharmacies.



The Department of Defense’s TRICARE® Pharmacy Program is the military health care program serving active-duty service customers, National Guard and Reserve customers and retirees, as well as their dependents. Under this contract, we provide online claims adjudication, home delivery services, specialty pharmacy clinical services, claims processing and contact center support and other services critical to managing pharmacy trend.In 2019, revenues from this contract were significant to the segment.



On January 30, 2019, Anthem, Inc. (“Anthem”) exercised its right to early termination of its pharmacy benefit management services agreement, effective March 1, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, the transition of customers is substantially complete. For further discussion of our Anthem relationship, see the “Executive Summary – Key Transactions and Business Developments” section of our MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of the Form 10-K. In 2019, Anthem revenues were significant to the segment.



In December 2019, Express Scripts and Prime Therapeutics LLC (“Prime”) announced a three-year agreement designed to deliver care for Prime’s clients and their patients by enhancing pharmacy networks and pharmaceutical manufacturer value.







Competition



The health care industry has undergone periods of substantial consolidation and may continue to consolidate in the future. We believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include the ability to: negotiate with retail pharmacies to ensure our retail pharmacy networks meet the needs of our clients and customers; provide home delivery and specialty pharmacy services; negotiate discounts and rebates on prescription drugs with drug manufacturers; navigate the complexities of government-reimbursed business including Medicare, Medicaid and the public exchanges; manage cost and quality of specialty drugs; use the information we obtain about drug utilization patterns and consumer behavior to reduce costs for our clients and customers and the level of service we provide.



Managed Care PBMs:CVS Caremark (owned by CVS Health Corporation), Envision Rx (owned by Rite Aid Corporation), Humana, IngenioRx (owned by Anthem), Optum (owned by UnitedHealth Group Inc.) and Prime Therapeutics (owned by a collection of Blue Cross / Blue Shield Plans) compete with us on a variety of products and in various regions throughout the United States.

Independent PBMs:MedImpact and Navitus Health Solutions compete with us on a variety of products and in various regions throughout the United States.

Retail Pharmacies:CVS Caremark, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and WalMart, Inc.

Third-Party Benefits Administrators:Third parties that specialize in claim adjudication and benefit administration, such as Argus, are direct competitors. With the emergence of alternative benefit models through Private Exchanges, the competitive landscape also includes brokers, health plans and consultants. Some of these competitors may deploy greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do and new market entrants, including strategic alliances aimed at modifying the current health care delivery models or entering the prescription drug sector from another sector of the health care industry, may increase competition as barriers to entry are relatively low.

Clinical Solutions and Health Care Data Analytics Companies:OptumRx (owned by UnitedHealth Group Inc.), Anthem, Magellan Health, HealthHelp, Cotiviti, and Inovalon are among the companies that compete with us in this market.



Operations



Sales and Account Management:Our sales and account management teams market and sell pharmacy benefit management solutions and are supported by client service representatives, clinical pharmacy managers and benefit analysis consultants. These teams work with clients to develop innovative strategies that put medicine within reach of customers while helping health benefit providers improve access to and affordability of prescription drugs.

Supply Chain:Our supply chain contracting and strategy teams negotiate and manage pharmacy network contracts, pharmaceutical and wholesaler purchasing contracts and manufacturer rebate contracts. As our clients continue to experience increased cost trends, our supply chain teams develop innovative solutions such as our SafeGuardRx program and narrow networks to combat these cost increases. In addition, our Formulary Consulting team, consisting of pharmacists and financial analysts, provides services to our clients to support formulary decisions, benefit design consultation and utilization management programs.

Clinical Support:Our staff of highly trained health care professionals provides clinical support for our pharmacy benefit management and health benefit management services, including more specialized care for customers with select chronic and complex conditions. We operate condition-specific Therapeutic Resource Center facilities staffed with specialist pharmacists, nurses and other clinicians who provide personal and specialized customer care. Our clinical solutions staff of pharmacists and physicians provides clinical development and operational support for our pharmacy benefit management services. These health care providers conduct a wide range of activities including identifying emerging medication-related safety issues and alerting physicians, clients, and customers (as appropriate); providing drug information services; managing formulary; and developing utilization management, safety (drug utilization review) and other clinical interventions.



Suppliers



We maintain an inventory of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals in our home delivery and specialty pharmacies. Our specialty pharmacies also carry biopharmaceutical products to meet the needs of our customers, including pharmaceuticals for the treatment of rare or chronic diseases; if a drug is not in our inventory, we can generally obtain it from a supplier within one business day.



We purchase pharmaceuticals either directly from manufacturers or through authorized wholesalers. Health Services uses one wholesaler more than others in the industry, but holds contracts with other wholesalers if needs for an alternate source arise. Generic pharmaceuticals are generally purchased directly from manufacturers.







Industry Developments



See the “Industry Developments” section of the MD&A in this Form 10-K for discussion of key industry developments impacting this segment.



Intellectual Property Rights



Our Company’s Health Services-related trademark and service marks include, but are not limited to, the following: EXPRESS SCRIPTS®, MEDCO®, ACCREDO®, CURASCRIPTSD®, EVICORE HEALTHCARE®, FREEDOM FERTILITY PHARMACY®, RATIONALMED®, SCREENRX®, EXPRESSALLIANCE®, THERAPEUTIC RESOURCE CENTER®, ADVANCED OPIOID MANAGEMENT®, SAFEGUARDRX®, CARDIOVASCULAR CARE VALUESM, HEPATITIS CURE VALUESM, MARKET EVENTS PROTECTIONSM, ONCOLOGY CARE VALUESM, DIABETES CARE VALUESM, INFLAMMATORY CONDITIONS CARE VALUESM, INFLATION PROTECTIONSM, PULMONARY CARE VALUESM, MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS CARE VALUESM, HEALTH CONNECT 360SM, EMBARC BENEFIT PROTECTIONSM, EXPRESS SCRIPTS PATIENT ASSURANCESMand INSIDE RX®. We, or our affiliated companies, own trademark registrations for these and other company marks. Other names and marks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.



We also hold a portfolio of patents and pending patent applications. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.







INTEGRATED MEDICAL



Integrated Medical consists of a Commercial operating segment that includes our employer-sponsored medical coverage and a Government operating segment that includes Medicare offerings for seniors and individual insurance offerings both on and off the public health insurance exchanges. In 2019, Integrated Medical reported adjusted revenues of $36.5 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $3.8 billion.



HOW WE WINBroad and deep portfolio of solutionsacross Commercial and Government operating segmentsCommitmentto highest-quality health outcomes and customer experiencesCollaborativephysician engagement models emphasizing value over volume of servicesIntegrated benefit solutionsthat deliver value for our customers, clients and partnersTechnology and data analyticspowering actionable insights and affordable, predictable solutionsTalented and caring peopleembracing change and putting customers at the center of all we do



We differentiate ourselves by providing innovative, personalized, and affordable health care benefit solutions based on the unique needs of the individuals and clients we serve. We increase value through our integrated approach and use of technology and data analytics to enhance patient engagement and health care outcomes, underscoring our strategic focus on delivering an industry-leading customer experience. We continue to strengthen our collaborative relationships with providers as we accelerate our transition to a value-based reimbursement system.



We offer a mix of core health insurance products and services to employers, other groups and individuals along with specialty products and services designed to improve the quality of care, lower cost and help customers achieve better health outcomes. Many of these products are available on a standalone basis, but we believe they create additional value when integrated with a Cigna-administered health plan. Our products are available through several distribution channels including brokers, direct sales and public and private exchanges. Our three funding solutions (i.e., insured – experience-rated (“ER”), insured – guaranteed cost (“GC”), and administrative services only (“ASO”) arrangements) enable us to customize the amount of risk taken by, and lower costs for, our customers and clients.







The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment, with definitions on subsequent pages.



Principal Products & ServicesMajor Brand(s)GeographyFunding Solution(s)Market Segment(s)Primary Distribution Channel(s)Primary Competitors

Commercial Medical

Managed CareCigna HealthCareNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercialBrokers, Private Exchanges, DirectNational Insurers, Local Healthplans, Third-Party Administrators (“TPAs”)

Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”)CignaNationwideNational Insurers, TPAs

Consumer-DrivenCignaNationwideNational Insurers, Local Health Maintenance Organizations (“HMOs”)

Government Medical

Individual and Family PlansCigna Connect9 states(1)GCIndividualPublic and Private ExchangesLocal Healthplans, Start-ups, National Insurers

Medicare AdvantageCigna16 states(2)& District of ColumbiaGCGovernmentDirect, BrokersNational Insurers, Local Healthplans

Medicare Stand –Alone PDPsCigna, Express ScriptsNationwideGCGovernmentDirect, BrokersNational Insurers

Medicare SupplementCigna48 states(3)& District of ColumbiaGCGovernmentBrokers, Direct, Private ExchangesNational Insurers

Specialty Products and Services

Stop-LossCignaNationwideGCCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Specialty Companies

Cost-ContainmentCignaNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercialDirectNational Insurers, Specialty Companies

Consumer Health EngagementCignaNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercial, GovernmentBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Specialty Companies

Pharmacy ManagementCignaNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercial, GovernmentBrokers, DirectNational PBMs

Behavioral HealthCigna Behavioral HealthNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Specialty Companies

DentalCigna Dental HealthCareNationwideGC, ER, ASOCommercial, GovernmentBrokers, DirectDental Insurers, National Insurers

(1)AZ, CO, FL, IL, MO, NC, TN, TX, VA

(2)AL, AZ, AR, DE, FL, GA, IL, KS, MD, MS, MO, NC, PA, SC, TN, TX

(3)All states except MA and NY





Principal Products & Services



Commercial Medical



Managed Care Plansare offered through our insurance companies, HMOs and TPA companies. HMO, LocalPlus®, Network Open Access and Open Access Plus plans use meaningful cost-sharing incentives to encourage the use of “in-network” versus “out-of-network” health care providers. The national provider network for Managed Care Plans is somewhat smaller than the national network used with the PPO plan product line.

PPO Plansfeature a network with broader provider access than the Managed Care Plans.

Consumer-Driven Productsare typically paired with a high-deductible medical plan and offer customers a tax-advantaged way to pay for eligible health care expenses. These products, consisting of health savings accounts, health reimbursement accounts and flexible spending accounts, encourage customers to play an active role in managing their health and health care costs.



Government Medical



Individual and Family Plansfeature an insurance policy coupled with a network of health care providers in a geographic area who have been selected with cost and quality in mind.

Medicare Advantage Plansallow Medicare-eligible beneficiaries to receive health care benefits, including prescription drugs, through a managed care health plan such as our coordinated care plans. Our Medicare Advantage Plans are primarily HMO plans marketed to individuals. A significant portion of our Medicare Advantage customers receive medical care from our value-based models that focus on developing highly engaged physician networks, aligning payment incentives to improved health outcomes and using timely and transparent data sharing.

Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Productsprovide a number of prescription drug plan options, as well as service and information support, to Medicare and Medicaid eligible customers. Our stand-alone plans offer the savings of Medicare combined with the flexibility to provide enhanced benefits and a drug list tailored to an individual’s specific needs. Eligible beneficiaries benefit from broad network access and value-added services intended to promote wellness and affordability for our eligible beneficiaries.

Medicare Supplement Plansprovide Medicare-eligible beneficiaries with federally standardized Medigap-style plans. Beneficiaries may select among the various plans with specific plan options to meet their unique needs and may visit, without the need for a referral, any health care provider or facility that accepts Medicare throughout the United States.



Specialty Products and Services

Stop-Lossinsurance coverage is offered to self-insured clients whose group health plans are administered by Cigna. Stop-loss insurance provides reimbursement for claims in excess of a predetermined amount for individuals, the entire group, or both.

Cost-Containment Programsare designed to contain the cost of covered health care services and supplies. These programs reduce out-of-network utilization and costs, protect customers from balance billing and educate customers regarding the availability of lower cost in-network services. In addition, under these programs we negotiate discounts with out-of-network providers, review provider bills and recover overpayments. We charge fees for providing or arranging for these services. These programs may be administered by third-party vendors that have contracted with Cigna.

Consumer Health Engagementservices are offered to customers covered under plans administered by Cigna or by third-party administrators. These services consist of an array of health management, disease management and wellness services. Our Medical Management programs include case, specialty and utilization management and a Health Information line. Our Health Advocacy program services include early intervention in the treatment of chronic conditions and an array of health and wellness coaching. Additionally, we administer incentives programs designed to encourage customers to engage in health improvement activities.

Pharmacy Managementservices and benefits can be combined with our medical offerings. The comprehensive suite of pharmacy management services available to clients and customers includes benefits management, specialty pharmacy services, clinical solutions, home delivery and certain health management services.

Behavioral Healthservices consist of behavioral health care case management, employee assistance programs (“EAP”) and work/life programs. We focus on integrating our programs and services with medical, pharmacy and disability programs to facilitate customized, holistic care.





Dentalsolutions include dental health maintenance organization plans, dental preferred provider organization plans, exclusive dental provider organization plans, traditional dental indemnity plans and a dental discount program. Employers and other groups can purchase our products on either an insured or self-insured basis as standalone products or in conjunction with medical products. Additionally, individual customers can purchase insured dental preferred provider organization plans as standalone products or in conjunction with individual medical policies.



Funding Solutions



ASO.Plan sponsors (i.e., employers, unions and other groups) self-fund all claims, but may purchase stop-loss insurance to limit exposure. We collect fees from plan sponsors for providing access to our participating provider network and for other services and programs including: claims administration; behavioral health services; disease management; utilization management; cost containment; dental and pharmacy benefit management. Approximately 85% of our commercial medical customers are in ASO arrangements.

Experience-rated Insurance.Premium rates are established at the beginning of a policy period and are typically based on prior claim experience of the policyholder. When claims and expenses are less than the premium charged (an “experience surplus” or “margin”), the policyholder may be credited for a portion of this experience surplus or margin. If claims and expenses exceed the premium charged (an “experience deficit”), we bear these costs. In certain cases, experience deficits incurred while the policy is in effect are accumulated and may be recovered through future policy year experience surpluses or margins. Approximately 6% of commercial medical customers are in experience-rated arrangements.

Guaranteed Cost Insurance.Premium rates are established at the beginning of a policy period and, depending on group size, may be based in whole or in part on prior experience of the policyholder or on a pool of similar policyholders. We generally cannot subsequently adjust premiums to reflect actual claim experience until the next annual renewal. The policyholder does not participate, or share in, actual claim experience. We keep any experience surplus or margin if costs are less than the premium charged (subject to minimum medical loss ratio rebate requirements discussed below) and bear the risk for actual costs in excess of the premium charged. Approximately 9% of commercial medical customers are in guaranteed cost arrangements.



In most states, individual and group insurance premium rates must be approved by the applicable state regulatory agency (typically department of insurance) and state or federal laws may restrict or limit the use of rating methods. Premium rates for groups and individuals are subject to state review to determine whether they are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) subjects individual and small group policy rate increases above an identified threshold to review by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and requires payment of premium refunds on individual and group medical insurance products if minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) requirements are not met. The MLR represents the percentage of premiums used to pay medical claims and expenses for activities that improve the quality of care. In our individual business, premiums may also be adjusted as a result of the government risk adjustment program that accounts for the relative health status of our customers. See the “Business - Regulation” section of this Form 10-K for additional information about commercial MLR requirements and risk mitigation programs of the ACA.



Market Segments



Commercialcomprises employers from the following market segments:

oNational.Multistate employers with 5,000 or more U.S.-based, full-time employees. We offer primarily ASO funding solutions in this market segment.

oMiddle Market.Employers generally with 500 to 4,999 U.S.-based, full-time employees. This segment also includes single-site employers with more than 5,000 employees and Taft-Hartley plans and other groups. We offer ASO, experience-rated and guaranteed cost insured funding solutions in this market segment.

oSelect.Employers generally with 51-499 eligible employees. We usually offer ASO with stop-loss insurance coverage and guaranteed cost insured funding solutions in this market segment.

oSmall GroupEmployers generally with 2-50 eligible employees. Pending regulatory approvals, we expect to launch a small group offering in select markets in 2020 with a strategic partner.

Individual.Consistent with the regulations for Individual ACA compliant plans, we offer only guaranteed cost plans in this market segment.

Governmentincludes individuals who are Medicare-eligible beneficiaries, as well as employer group sponsored pre- and post-65 retirees. We also have dual-eligible customers who receive both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. We receive revenue from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) based on customer demographic data and health risk factors. In 2019, revenues from CMS were significant to the segment.







Primary Distribution Channels



Brokers.Sales representatives distribute our products and services to a broad group of insurance brokers and consultants across the United States.

Direct.Cigna sales representatives distribute our products and services directly to employers, unions and other groups or individuals across the United States. Various products may also be sold directly to insurance companies, HMOs and third-party administrators. This may take the form of in-person contact, telephone or group selling venues.

Private Exchanges.We partner with select companies that have created private exchanges where individuals and organizations can acquire health insurance. We actively evaluate private exchange participation opportunities as they emerge in the market and target our participation to those models that best align with our mission and value proposition.

Public Exchanges.Public health insurance exchanges for ACA compliant plans on which Cigna may offer individual policies.



Competition



The primary competitive factors affecting our business are quality and cost effectiveness of service and provider networks; effectiveness of medical care management; products that meet the needs of employers and their employees; total cost management; technology; and effectiveness of marketing and sales. Financial strength, as indicated by ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies, is also a competitive factor. Our health advocacy capabilities, holistic approach to consumer engagement, breadth of product offerings, clinical care and health management capabilities and array of product funding options are competitive advantages. We believe our focus on improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve, and how we deliver better affordability, predictability and simplicity in health care will allow us to further differentiate ourselves.

National Insurers.United HealthGroup Inc., Aetna Inc. (owned by CVS Health Corporation), Anthem, Humana and Blue Cross Blue Shield plans compete with us in a variety of products and regions throughout the United States.

Local Healthplans.Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, local affiliates of major insurance companies and hospitals and regional stand-alone managed care and specialty companies compete with us in the states in which we offer managed care products. Additionally, plan sponsors may contract directly with providers.

TPAs.Third-party administrators compete with us for ASO business.

Start-ups.Emerging participants including alternative health service models, consortiums and other health plans seeking to disrupt, often through competitive technology.

Dental Insurers.Various companies offering primarily dental insurance compete with us on these products.

Specialty Companies.Specialty insurance or service companies that offer niche products and services compete with us.



Partnering to Deliver on the Promise of More Affordable, Predictable, Simple Health Care



Cigna’s Connected Care strategy engages customers in their health, collaborates with providers to help them improve their performance, and connects customers and providers through aligned health goals, incentives and actionable information to enable better decisions and outcomes. Our delivery strategy is designed to ensure our customers have access to the right care and in the preferred and appropriate setting at the right time. Fueled by advanced insights and predictive analytics, Cigna is committed to developing innovative solutions that span the health care delivery system and can be applied to different types of providers. Currently we have numerous collaborative arrangements with our participating health care providers that reach 3.9 million customers and are actively developing new arrangements to support our Connected Care strategy.



Accountable Care Program.We have 257 collaborative care arrangements with primary care groups built on the patient-centered medical home and accountable care organization (“ACO”) models. Our arrangements span more than 34 states and reach over 3 million customers. We are committed to increasing the number of groups over the next several years, as well as deepening existing relationships, with a goal of reaching over 270 programs by the end of 2020.

Hospital Quality Program.We have contracts with over 500 hospitals with reimbursements tied to quality metrics. We expect to grow this number to over 600 hospitals by the end of 2020.

Specialist Programs.We have 290 arrangements with specialist groups in value-based reimbursement arrangements. Our goal is to reach approximately 380 arrangements by the end of 2020. Programs include nationwide arrangements with several types of specialist groups including orthopedics, obstetrics and gynecology, cardiology, gastroenterology, oncology, nephrology and neurology. Arrangements include care coordination and episodes of care reimbursements for meeting cost and quality goals.

Independent Practice Associations.We have value-based physician engagement models in our Medicare Advantage business that allow physician groups to share financial outcomes with us. This clinical model also includes outreach to new and at-risk patients to ensure they are accessing their primary care physician.





Participating Provider Network.We provide our customers with an extensive network of participating health care providers, hospitals and other facilities, pharmacies and providers of health care services and supplies. In most instances, we contract with them directly; however, in some instances, we contract with third parties for access to their provider networks and care management services. In addition, we have entered into strategic alliances with several regional managed care organizations (e.g., Tufts Health Plan, HealthPartners, Inc., Health Alliance Plan and MVP Health Plan) to gain access to their provider networks and discounts.







INTERNATIONAL MARKETS



Cigna’s International Markets segment has operations in over 30 countries or jurisdictions providing a full range of comprehensive medical and supplemental health, life, and accident benefits to individuals and employers. Products and services include comprehensive health coverage, hospitalization, dental, critical illness, personal accident, term life, and variable universal life. In 2019, International Markets reported adjusted revenues of $5.6 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $762 million.



HOW WE WINOffering a broad range of health and protection-related solutions to meet the needs of the growing middle class and globally mobileLeveragingdeep consumer insightsto drive product andservice innovationMaintaining leading innovative, direct-to-consumer distribution capabilitiesProviding access to quality, affordable care through one of thelargest global provider networksImplementing locally-licensed andcompliantsolutions managed bystrong, locally-developed talent



Demand for our products and services is driven by the growing global middle class, aging populations, increasing prevalence of chronic conditions and rising global health care costs. Our focus on product and service innovation means we continue to deliver solutions that meet the evolving needs of individual and group customers. Our products, distribution channels and funding sources range by customer and geography.







International Markets is well positioned to address the growing demand for access to quality, affordable care and supplemental health and life protection that fill gaps in public and private care. We distinguish ourselves through differentiated direct-to-consumer distribution, customer insights, product innovation, a leading provider network and compliant solutions. We identify and pursue attractive market opportunities to bring health and protection solutions and tailor those solutions to the market and customer needs. Over the past several years, we have extended our product offerings and geographic reach. The chart below provides a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages.



Principal Products & ServicesMajor Brand(s)GeographyFunding Solution(s)Key RelationshipsPrimary Distribution Channel(s)Primary CompetitorsGlobal Health CareCigna Global Health BenefitsCigna Global IPMIWorldwide (except as limited by applicable law)ER, GC, ASOMultinational Companies, Inter-governmental and Non-governmental OrganizationsGlobally mobile individualsBrokers, Agents, Direct-to-ConsumerGlobal insurersLocal Health CareCignaManipalCignaCignaCMBUnited Kingdom, Spain, Hong Kong, India, China, SingaporeER, GC, ASOEmployer GroupsIndividualsBrokers, Agents, Direct-to-ConsumerGlobal insurers and local non-U.S. insurersSupplemental Health, Life, & AccidentCignaLINA KoreaCignaCMBManipalCignaCignaFinansAsia Pacific, India, TurkeyGCIndividualsAffinity, Bancassurance, Brokers, Agents, Direct-to-ConsumerGlobal insurers and local non-U.S. insurers



Principal Products & Services



Global Health Careproducts and services include insurance and administrative services for medical, dental, pharmacy, vision and life, accidental death and dismemberment and disability risks. We are leading providers of products and services that meet the needs of multinational employers, intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations and globally mobile individuals with a focus on keeping employees healthy and productive. The employer benefits products and services are offered through guaranteed cost, experience-rated and administrative services only funding solutions, while individuals purchase guaranteed cost coverage. For definitions of funding solutions, see “Funding Solutions” in the “Integrated Medical” description of business section of this Form 10-K.



Local Health Careproducts and services include medical, dental, pharmacy and vision as well as life coverage. The customers of local health care businesses are employers and individuals located in specific countries where the products and services are purchased. These employer services can similarly be funded through a range of options; individuals purchase on a guaranteed cost basis.



Supplemental Health, Life and Accident Insuranceproducts and services generally provide simple, affordable coverage of risks for the health and financial security of individuals. Supplemental health products provide stated benefit payments for certain specified health risks and include personal accident, accidental death, critical illness, hospitalization, travel, dental, dementia, cancer and other dread disease coverages. We also offer customers term and variable universal life insurance and certain savings products in select markets.







Competition



We anticipate that the competitive environment will intensify as insurance and financial services providers more aggressively pursue expansion opportunities across geographies, particularly Asia. We believe competitive factors will include speed-to-market, customer insights, branding, product, distribution and service innovation, underwriting and pricing, efficient management of marketing and operating processes, commission levels paid to distribution partners, the quality of compliance functions, claims, network coverage and medical cost management, and talent acquisition and retention. Additionally, in most overseas markets, perception of commitment to the market and financial strength will likely be an important competitive factor.



Pricing and Reinsurance



Premium rates and fees for ourglobal and localhealth care products reflect assumptions about future claims, expenses, customer demographics, investment returns and profit margins. For products using networks of contracted health care providers and facilities, premiums reflect assumptions about the impact of these contracts and utilization management on future claims. Most contracts permit rate changes at least annually.



The profitability of health care products is dependent upon the accuracy of projections for health care inflation (unit cost, location of delivery of care, currency of incurral and utilization), customer demographics, the adequacy of fees charged for administration and effective medical cost management.



Premium rates for our supplemental benefits products are based on assumptions about mortality, morbidity, customer acquisition and retention, customer demographics, expenses and capital requirements, as well as interest rates. Variable universal life insurance products fees consist of mortality, administrative, asset management and surrender charges assessed against the contractholder’s fund balance. Mortality charges on variable universal life may be adjusted prospectively to reflect expected mortality experience. Most contracts permit premium rate changes at least annually.



A global approach to underwriting risk management allows each local business to underwrite and accept risk within specified limits. Retentions are centrally managed through cost-effective use of external reinsurance to limit our liability on per life, per risk and per event (catastrophe) bases.



Industry Developments and Other Items Affecting International Markets



South Korea represents our single largest geographic market for International Markets. For information on this concentration of risk for the International Markets segment's business in South Korea, see "Other Items Affecting Results of International Markets" in the International Markets section of the MD&A of this Form 10-K.



Pressure on social health care systems, a rapidly aging population and increased wealth and education in developing insurance markets are leading to higher demand for health insurance and financial security products. In the supplemental health, life and accident business, direct marketing channels continue to grow and attract new competitors with industry consolidation among financial institutions and other affinity partners.



Data privacy regulation has tightened in all markets in the wake of high-profile data privacy incidents, impacting affinity partner and customer attitudes toward direct marketing of insurance and other financial services. It has also placed an added emphasis on the importance of operational compliance.









GROUP DISABILITY AND OTHER



As explained further in the introduction to this Form 10-K, Group Disability and Other consists of our Group Disability and Life operating segment, along with COLI and certain run-off businesses reported together in Other Operations. In 2019, Group Disability and Other reported adjusted revenues of $5.2 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $501 million.



In December 2019, Cigna entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Group Disability and Life business to New York Life Insurance Company for $6.3 billion. The sale is expected to close in the third quarter of 2020 subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Until the transaction is finalized, we continue to operate our business as usual and serve our customers.



HOW WE WINDisability absence management modelthat reduces overall costs to employersIntegrationof disabilityproductswith medical and specialty offerings,promoting health and wellness and optimizing employee productivityComplementary portfolioof group disability, life and accident offeringsDisciplined underwriting, pricing and investment strategiessupporting profitable long-term growth



Group Disability and Life



Our Group Disability and Life operating segment includes our commercial long- and short-term disability products and our term life group insurance products. We also offer personal accident insurance and voluntary products and services. These products and services are distributed through brokers and direct sales and are available in guaranteed cost, experience-rated and ASO arrangements. The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our Principal Products and Services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages.



Principal Products & ServicesPayorPremium RatesFunding Solution(s)Market Segment(s)Primary Distribution Channel(s)Primary CompetitorsGroup DisabilityLong-term DisabilityEmployer, EmployeePreset, guaranteedER, GC, ASOCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Regional InsurersShort-term DisabilityEmployer, EmployeePreset, guaranteedER, GC, ASOCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Regional InsurersGroup LifeTerm LifeEmployer, EmployeePreset, guaranteedER, GCCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Regional InsurersGroup Accident and VoluntaryPersonal Accident InsuranceEmployer, EmployeePreset, guaranteedER, GCCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Regional InsurersVoluntary Products and ServicesEmployeePreset, guaranteedGCCommercialBrokers, DirectNational Insurers, Regional Insurers



Principal Products & Services



Group Disability

Group Long-term and Short-term Disabilityinsurance products generally provide a fixed level of income to replace a portion of wages lost due to disability. As part of our group disability insurance products, we also assist employees in returning to work and employers with resources to manage the cost of employee disability

Leave Administrationsolutions help customers effectively manage workforce absence and provide coverage for paid leave.







Group Life Insurance

Group Term Lifeinsurance may be employer-paid basic life insurance, employee-paid supplemental life insurance or a combination thereof.



Group Accident and Voluntary

Personal Accident Insurancecoverage consists primarily of accidental death and dismemberment and travel accident insurance to employers.

Voluntary Products and Servicesinclude plans that provide employers with administrative solutions designed to provide a complete and simple way to manage their benefits program. These voluntary offerings include accidental injury insurance, critical illness coverage and hospital care coverage, and provide additional dollar payouts to employees for unexpected accidents, hospitalization or more serious illnesses.



Pricing



Premiums charged for disability and term life insurance products are usually established in advance of the policy period and are generallyguaranteed for one to three years, but selectively guaranteed for up to five years. Policies are generally subject to termination by the policyholder or by the insurance company annually. Premium rates reflect assumptions about future claims, expenses, credit risk, investment returns and profit margins. These assumptions may be based in whole or in part on prior experience of the account or on a pool of accounts, depending on the group size and the statistical credibility of the experience that varies by product.



Market Segments

Commercial.Commercial market segments are as follows:

oNational.Multistate employers with 5,000 or more U.S.-based, full-time employees.

oMiddle Market.Employers generally with 250 to 4,999 U.S.-based, full-time employees.

oSelect.Employers generally with up to 249 eligible employees.



Primary Distribution Channels



Insurance Broker and Consultants.Sales representatives distribute our products and services to a broad group of insurance brokers and consultants across the United States.

Direct.Sales representatives distribute our products and services directly to employers, unions and other groups or individuals across the United States. This may take the form of in-person contact, telephone or group selling venues.



Competition



The principal competitive factors that affect the Group Disability and Life segment are underwriting and pricing, the quality and effectiveness of claims management, relative operating efficiency, investment and risk management, distribution methodologies and producer relations, the breadth and variety of products and services offered, the quality of customer service and, more importantly, the state of the tools and technology available for customers, clients, consultants and producers. For certain products with longer-term liabilities, such as group long-term disability insurance, the financial strength of the insurer, as indicated by ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies, is also a competitive factor.



National Insurers.Unum, The Hartford, Prudential Financial, Lincoln Financial Group and MetLife compete with us on a variety of products and regions throughout the United States.



Industry Developments



Employers have expressed a growing interest in employee wellness, absence management and productivity and recognize a strong link between employee health productivity and profitability.







The group insurance market remains highly competitive as the rising cost of medical coverage has forced companies to re-evaluate their overall employee benefit spending, resulting in lower volumes of group disability and life insurance business and more competitive pricing.



Over the past few years, there has been heightened review by state regulators of the claims handling practices within the disability and life insurance industry. This has resulted in an increase in coordinated, multistate examinations that target specific market practices in addition to regularly recurring examinations of an insurer’s overall operations conducted by an individual state’s regulators. We have been subject to such an examination over the past several years.



The lower level of interest rates in the United States over the last several years has constrained earnings growth in this segment due to lower yields on our fixed-income investments and higher benefit expenses resulting from the discounting of future claim payments at lower interest rates.



Other Operations



Other Operations includes the following:



Corporate-owned Life Insurance



The principal products of the COLI business are permanent insurance contracts sold to corporations to provide coverage on the lives of certain employees for financing employer-paid future benefit obligations. Permanent life insurance provides coverage that, when adequately funded, does not expire after a term of years. The contracts are primarily non-participating universal life policies.Fees for universal life insurance products consist primarily of mortality and administrative charges assessed against the policyholder’s fund balance. Interest credited and mortality charges for universal life and mortality charges on variable universal life may be adjusted prospectively to reflect expected interest and mortality experience. To reduce our exposure to large individual and catastrophe losses,wepurchase reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers.



Run-off Settlement Annuity Business



Our settlement annuity business is a closed, run-off block of single premium annuity contracts. These contracts are primarily liability settlements with approximately 20% of the liabilities associated with guaranteed payments not contingent on survivorship. Non-guaranteed payments are contingent on the survival of one or more parties involved in the settlement.



Run-off Reinsurance



Our reinsurance operations are an inactive business in run-off.



In February 2013, we effectively exited the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) business by reinsuring 100% of our future exposures,net of retrocessional arrangements in place at that time, up to a specified limit. For additional information regarding this reinsurance transaction and the arrangements that secure our reinsurance recoverables, see Note10to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Individual Life Insurance and Annuity and Retirement Benefits Businesses



This business includes deferred gains recognized from the 1998 sale of the individual life insurance and annuity business and the 2004 sale of the retirement benefits business.For more information regarding the arrangements that secureourreinsurance recoverables for the retirement benefits business, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



TECHNOLOGY



Cigna Technology Services supports our business strategy by focusing first and foremost on strong foundational technology services, delivery of a business-aligned technology project portfolio and focused strategic innovation that creates technology solutions to differentiate us in the market. Our innovation continues to focus on three strategic areas: insights and analytics; digital health and care delivery and management. Our technology strategy drives improved customer experience, increases engagement and advances population health with data driven insights and using advanced analytics and predictive intelligence to provide key areas of competitive advantage. Innovation is core to the way we do business and will be a critical factor to our success in the highly dynamic health care industry. Our business strategy is based upon providing customers with differentiated, easy-to-use, seamless and secure products and solutions that use insights from advanced analytics to exceed their expectations.







Our technology team, powered by approximately 7,000 employees and several thousand external resources contracted with our partners, supports the various information systems essential to our operations including the health benefit claims processing systems and specialty and home delivery pharmacy systems. Uninterrupted point-of-sale electronic retail pharmacy claims processing is a significant operational requirement for our business. We believe we have substantial capacity for growth in our United States claims processing facilities. Our pharmacy technology platform allows us to safely, rapidly and accurately adjudicate over one billion adjusted prescriptions annually. Our technology helps retail pharmacies focus on patient care and our real-time safety checks help avoid hundreds of thousands of medication errors annually.



We anticipate needs and meet customers where they are, from predicting and preventing chronic diseases, to using data to reduce payment and claims fraud, optimizing whole person health and leveraging the data from wearable devices and the Internet of Things to optimize population health status. Innovation is at the center of what differentiates Cigna. Cigna innovations improve patient outcomes while eliminating waste in the health care system. The Cigna companies hold more than 190 United States patents. We use these patents to protect our proprietary technological advances and to differentiate ourselves in the market.



We continue to bring new technology-enabled products and services to the market, including biometric stress prediction and focused insights in spaces such as women’s health and opioid addiction. Our digital health focus has shown value across the enterprise by creating engaging experiences that give customers the right information at the right time. This includes an enhanced MyCigna.com experience with new features, including refill and payment options, without leaving the mobile application. Cybersecurity protections, such as multi-factor authentication, have been launched across Cigna’s digital offerings providing better peace of mind and a stronger sense of security.



During 2019, significant technology integration, including with the acquired Express Scripts platform,delivered cost synergies, drove differentiated innovation and facilitated the transition to Express Scripts capabilities in areas such as supply chain, specialty pharmacy and retail networks. In the future, we expect continued integration and value realization with focus on customer-facing system integration and opportunities for enhanced value in specialty, claims and retail. With the combined strengths and capabilities of Cigna and Express Scripts, we see greater opportunities to create novel, highly-tailored customer insights as we mine data and use sophisticated advanced analytics and predictive intelligence to build better models that help us find solutions to complex questions and improve health care outcomes.



ANALYTICS



Cigna’s investments in data and analytics enable affordability, simplicity, predictability and growth across all of our business platforms. We create value for our customers and stakeholders by enabling better insights and actionable intelligence, developing new solutions and digitally-enabled value propositions and creating innovative data and analytics driven services. We leverage advanced analytics and predictive intelligence to design more affordable benefit plans and services, serve our customers and clients, and improve care costs and health outcomes.



Our teams conduct timely, rigorous and objective research and analysis that informs evidence-based medical and pharmacy benefit management and evaluates the clinical, economic and individual impact of enhanced benefit designs and programs.



Our commitment to innovation generates new and more effective ways to close care gaps, optimize treatment and improve outcomes.



Our data and analytics talent empowers these capabilities through deep expertise in data management, business analysis, intelligence and data science, with ongoing investments in talent development, analytic and big data technologies, as well as innovative third party partnerships while ensuring controls are in place to protect sensitive client and customer information.







INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT



Our investment operations provide investment management and related services for our various businesses, including the insurance-related invested assets in our General Account (“General AccountInvested Assets”). We acquire or originate, directly or through intermediaries, a broad range of investments including private placement and public securities, commercial mortgage loans, real estate, mezzanine, private equity partnerships and short-term investments. Invested assets also include policy loans that are fully collateralized by insurance policy cash values. We also enter into derivative financial instruments, primarily to minimize the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our investments. Invested assets are managed primarily by our subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, external managers with whom our subsidiaries contract. Net investment income is included as a component of adjusted income from operations for each of our segments and Corporate. Realized investment gains (losses) are reported by segment but excluded from adjusted income from operations. For additional information about invested assets, see the “Investment Assets” section of the MD&A and Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



We manage our investment portfolios to reflect the underlying characteristics of related insurance and contractholder liabilities and capital requirements, as well as regulatory and tax considerations pertaining to those liabilities and state investment laws. Insurance and contractholder liabilities range from short duration health care products to longer-term obligations associated with disability and life insurance products and the run-off settlement annuity business. Assets supporting these liabilities are managed in segregated investment portfolios to facilitate matching of asset durations and cash flows to those of corresponding liabilities. Investment results are affected by the amount and timing of cash available for investment, economic and market conditions and asset allocation decisions. We routinely monitor and evaluate the status of our investments, obtaining and analyzing relevant investment-specific information and assessing current economic conditions, trends in capital markets and other factors such as industry sector, geographic and property-specific information.



Separate Accounts



Our subsidiaries or external advisors manage invested assets of Separate Accounts on behalf of contractholders, including the Cigna Pension Plan, variable universal life products sold through our corporate-owned life insurance business and other life insurance products. These assets are legally segregated from our other businesses and are not included in General Account Invested Assets. Income, gains and losses generally accrue directly to the contractholders.



Investing in Innovation



In addition to the portfolio investments in our general and separate accounts discussed above that support our insurance operations, we do targeted investing within the health care industry specifically. Our Cigna Ventures unit has been allotted $250 million to invest in promising startups and growth-stage companies that create new growth possibilities in health care. These targeted investments bring improved care quality, affordability, choice and greater simplicity to customers, patients and clientsby harnessing transformative ideas in: 1) insights and analytics; 2) digital health and retail and 3) care delivery and management.





MISCELLANEOUS



We are not dependent on business from one or a few clients. No one client accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2019. We are not dependent on business from one or a few brokers or agents. In addition, our insurance businesses are generally not committed to accept a fixed portion of the business submitted by independent brokers and agents and generally all such business is subject to approval and acceptance.



We had approximately 73,700 employees as of December 31, 2019.







REGULATION



The laws and regulations governing our business continue to increase each year and are subject to frequent change. We are regulated by federal, state and international legislative bodies and agencies, which generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. These regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. Domestic and international governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals, which could materially impact the health care system. The U.S. 2020 presidential and state elections likely will fuel continued legislative and regulatory debate of issues related to our businesses.







Many aspects of our business are directly regulated by federal and state laws and administrative agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the U.S. Departments of Labor (“DOL”), the Office of Personnel Management (“OPM”) Treasury and Justice (“DOJ”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, state departments of insurance and state boards of pharmacy. Our business practices may also be shaped by judicial decisions.



In addition, aspects of our business are subject to indirect regulation. The self-funded benefit plans sponsored by our U.S. employer clients are regulated under federal law. These self-funded clients expect us to assure that our administration of their plans complies with the regulatory requirements applicable to them.



Our business operations and the books and records of our regulated businesses are routinely subject to examination and audit at regular intervals by state insurance and HMO regulatory agencies, state boards of pharmacy, CMS, DOL, IRS, OPM and comparable international regulators to assess compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our operations are also subject to nonroutine examinations, audits and investigations by various state and federal regulatory agencies, generally as the result of a complaint. In addition, we may be implicated in investigations of our clients whose group benefit plans we administer on their behalf. As a result, we routinely receive subpoenas and other demands or requests for information from various state insurance and HMO regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), the DOJ, the DOL and other state, federal and international authorities. We may also be called upon by members of the U.S. Congress to provide information, including testifying before congressional committees and subcommittees, regarding certain of our business practices. If Cigna is determined to have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, these examinations, investigations, reviews, subpoenas and demands may:



•result in fines, penalties, injunctions, consent orders or loss of licensure;

•suspend or exclude from participation in government programs or limit our ability to sell or market our products;

•require changes in business practices;

•damage relationships with the agencies that regulate us and affect our ability to secure regulatory approvals necessary for the operation of our business; or

•damage our brand and reputation.



Our international subsidiaries are subject to regulations in international jurisdictions, including in certain case many regulations similar to the federal and state regulations described below, which are complex and where foreign insurers may face more rigorous regulations than their domestic competitors and may also be affected by geopolitical developments or tensions.



The laws and regulations governing our business, as well as the related interpretations, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or in conflict with each other. Changes in our business environment are likely to continue as elected and appointed officials at the national and state levels continue to propose and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations. Even where we believe that we are in compliance with the various laws and regulations, any enforcement actions by federal, state or international government officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business. For a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with these laws and regulations see the Risk Factors section located in Part 1, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Management continues to be actively engaged with regulators and policymakers with respect to legislation and rulemaking. See the “Executive Overview – Health Care Industry Developments and Other Matters Affecting our Integrated Medical and Health Services Segments” section of our MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the anticipated impact of certain recent industry developments.



Patient Protection and the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”)







children up to age 26, or be subject to penalties based on employer size. The ACA also changed certain tax laws to effectively limit tax deductions for certain employee compensation paid by health insurers.In December 2019, the federal government repealed the non-deductible health insurance industry fee effective for 2021, as well as repealing the enacted but never implemented 40% excise tax on certain employer-sponsored coverage (known as the “Cadillac Tax”) and the medical device tax.



Since its adoption, there have been several attempts to repeal or limit the utility of the ACA. Certain insurers have sued the federal government for failure to pay cost-sharing subsidies under the ACA. The matter remains unresolved and we continue to monitor developments. In December 2017, U.S. tax reform legislation was signed into law that, among other things, reduced the “individual mandate” penalty for individuals without health insurance to zero dollars, effective January 1, 2019. As a result of this change, a federal district court has ruled that the “individual mandate” is unconstitutional. On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit agreed that the “individual mandate” is unconstitutional but ordered the district court to reexamine whether the other provisions of the ACA can remain in effect, thereby leaving in doubt whether the entire ACA is unconstitutional until there is a final judicial determination on appeal.



Additionally, in 2017, the current administration issued an executive order asking the DOL to revise the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) regulations to make it easier for employers, particularly small employers, to associate for the purpose of sponsoring large group health plans and thereby avoid the ACA’s small group market reform (e.g., community-rating and mandated coverage of essential health benefits) that impaired the affordability of providing health coverage to their employees. In the spring of 2018, the DOL issued final rules that revised the definition of “employer” in the ERISA rules to make it easier for employers, including self-employed individuals, to form bona fide employer groups, all of whose employees would be counted in determining whether they were small or large groups for purposes of the ACA. While the regulation of these groupings by state insurance departments is not affected by the DOL’s final association health plan rules, the final rules have resulted in an increase in interest among employers, associations, producers and benefit consultants in forming new groupings for purposes of offering insured or self-funded group health plans.



See also the “Executive Overview” section of our MD&A of this Form 10-K for more information. Additionally, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding accounting policies around the risk mitigation programs under the ACA.



Medicare and Medicaid Regulations



Through our subsidiaries, we offer individual and group Medicare Advantage, Medicare Pharmacy (“Part D”) and Medicare Supplement products. We also provide Medicare Part D-related products and services to other Medicare Part D sponsors, Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans and employers and clients offering Medicare Part D benefits to Medicare Part D eligible beneficiaries. As part of our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D business, we contract with CMS to provide services to Medicare beneficiaries. As a result, our ability to obtain payment (and the determination of the amount of such payments), market to, enroll and retain customers and expand into new service areas is subject to compliance with CMS’ numerous and complex regulations and requirements that are frequently modified and subject to administrative discretion, review and enforcement. We offer Medicaid and dual-eligible products and participate in state Medicaid programs directly or indirectly through our clients who are Medicaid managed care contractors. We also perform certain Medicaid subrogation services and certain delegated services, including utilization management, for clients, which are regulated by federal and state laws. Our Medicaid and dual-eligible products are regulated by CMS and state Medicaid agencies audit our performance to determine compliance with contracts and regulations.



CMS evaluates Medicare Advantage plans and Part D plans under its “Star Rating” system. The Star Rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, for example, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management, coverage determinations and appeals and customer satisfaction. A plan’s Star Rating affects its image in the market and plans that perform very well are able to offer enhanced benefits and market more effectively and for longer periods of time than other plans. Medicare Advantage plans’ quality-bonus payments are determined by the Star Rating, with plans receiving a rating of four or more stars eligible for such payments. The Star Rating system is subject to change annually by CMS, which may make it more difficult to achieve and maintain four stars or greater.



CMS uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to Medicare Advantage plans according to customers’ health status. The risk-adjustment model generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher than expected costs. Under this model, rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard Medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a “national average risk profile.” That baseline payment amount is adjusted to reflect the health status of our enrolled membership. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, and physician providers to CMS within prescribed deadlines. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are employees, to code their claim submission with appropriate diagnoses which we send to CMS as the





basis for our payments received under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to the plans, which CMS adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. In 2012, CMS released a payment methodology that provided for sample audit error rates to be extrapolated to the entire Medicare Advantage contract after comparing audit results with a similar audit of Medicare Fee for Service (the “FFS Adjuster”) and applying an FFS Adjuster to establish actuarial equivalency in payment rates as required by the Medicare statute. However, a methodology to calculate the FFS Adjuster was not finalized and CMS has, to date, not completed any Risk Adjustment Data Validation (“RADV”) audits using extrapolation. See below under “Federal and State Oversight of Government-Sponsored Health Care Programs” for a discussion of RADV audits.



On November 1, 2018, CMS released a proposed rule titled “Proposed Rule on Changes to MA and Part D Programs for CY 2020 and 2021” that would revise its RADV methodology for RADV audits of contract year 2011 and all subsequent years by, among other things, extrapolating RADV results at the contract level without applying the FFS Adjuster. The Company, along with other Medicare Advantage organizations and additional interested parties, submitted comments to CMS on the proposed rule as part of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process. The comment period concluded on August 28, 2019. It is uncertain whether CMS will finalize the rule as proposed.



Coverage of prescription drugs under Medicare Part D is also regulated by CMS and our contracts with CMS contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. These provisions affect our ultimate payments from CMS. For example, premiums from CMS are subject to risk corridor payments which compare costs targeted in our annual bids with actual prescription costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by CMS. Variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in CMS making additional payments to us or require us to refund to CMS a portion of the payments we received (known as a risk corridor).



In February 2019, CMS proposed rules to support the seamless and secure access, exchange and use of electronic health information. In the proposed rules, CMS proposes requirements that Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Program, Medicare Advantage plans and qualified health plans in the federally-facilitated exchanges provide enrollees with immediate electronic access to medical claims and other health information electronically by 2020. This proposed rule is subject to revision through a comment process. The Company submitted comments to CMS on the proposed rule as part of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process and the comment period concluded on June 3, 2019.



On February 5, 2020, CMS released a proposed rule titled “Medicare and Medicaid Programs: Contract Year 2021 and 2022 Policy and Technical Changes to the Medicare Advantage Program, Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Program, Medicaid Program, Medicare Cost Plan Program, and Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly” that proposes changes to special needs plans, flexibility in the use of specialty tiers in Medicare Part D, creation of a beneficiary real-time benefit tool, and modification of certain network adequacy rules. The proposed rule also includes several changes to the Stars Rating system, including creation of several new measures, retirement of one existing measure, changes to the relative measure weighting, and revision of the methodology for assigning individual measure ratings. The proposed rule is subject to revision through the comment process.



We expect CMS, OIG, DOJ and other federal agencies to continue to closely scrutinize each component of the Medicare Advantage program and modify the terms and requirements of the program. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in significant consequences, including fines and penalties, enrollment sanctions, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limitations on expansion, and criminal penalties.



See also the “Executive Overview” section of our MD&A of this Form 10-K for more information.



False Claims Act and Anti-Kickback Laws



Our products and services are also subject to the federal False Claims Act (the “False Claims Act”) and federal and state anti-kickback laws. Additionally, the federal government has made investigating and prosecuting health care fraud, waste and abuse a priority. Fraud, waste and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks in return for customer referrals, billing for unnecessary medical services, upcoding and improper marketing. The regulations and contractual requirements in this area are complex, frequently modified, and subject to administrative discretion and judicial interpretation.



False Claims Act and Related Criminal Provisions.The False Claims Act imposes civil penalties on any person who makes or causes to be made claims or records or statements that he or she knows or should know are false with respect to governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to obtain reimbursement or for failure to return overpayments. Private individuals may bring qui tam or “whistleblower” suits against providers under the False Claims Act, which authorizes the payment of a portion of any recovery to the individual bringing suit. The ACA amended the federal anti-kickback laws to state any claim submitted to a federal or state health care program that violates the anti-kickback laws is also a false claim under the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act generally





provides for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, creating the possibility of substantial financial liabilities. Criminal statutes similar to the False Claims Act provide that if a corporation is convicted of presenting a claim or making a statement it knows to be false, fictitious or fraudulent to any federal agency, the corporation may be fined. Conviction under these statutes may also result in exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs. Many states have also enacted laws similar to the False Claims Act, some of which may include criminal penalties, substantial fines and treble damages.



Anti-Kickback and Referral Laws.Subject to certain exceptions and “safe harbors,” the federal anti-kickback statute generally prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully paying, receiving or offering any payment or other remuneration to induce a person to purchase, lease, order or arrange for items (including prescription drugs) or services reimbursable in whole or in part under Medicare, Medicaid or another federal health care program. Many states have similar laws, some of which are not limited to items or services paid for with government funds. Sanctions for violating these federal and state anti-kickback laws may include criminal and civil fines and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs.



Anti-kickback laws have been cited as a partial basis, along with state consumer protection laws described below, for investigations and multistate settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies or payors in connection with “product conversion” or promotion programs. Other anti-kickback laws may be applicable to arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as the Public Contracts Anti-Kickback Act, the ERISA Health Plan Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal “Stark Law” and various state anti-kickback restrictions.



Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law. The federal civil monetary penalty statute provides for civil monetary penalties against any person who gives something of value to a Medicare or Medicaid program beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider for Medicare or Medicaid items or services. Under this law, our wholly-owned home delivery pharmacies, specialty pharmacies and home health providers are restricted from offering certain items of value to influence a Medicare or Medicaid patient’s use of services. The ACA also includes several civil monetary provisions, such as penalties for the failure to report and return a known overpayment and failure to grant timely access to the OIG under certain circumstances.



Federal and State Oversight of Government-Sponsored Health Care Programs



Participation in government-sponsored health care programs subjects us to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations and risks associated with audits conducted under these programs. These audits may occur years after the provision of services. Risks include potential fines and penalties, restrictions on our ability to participate or expand our presence in certain programs and restrictions on marketing our plans. For example, with respect to our Medicare Advantage business, CMS and the OIG perform audits to determine a health plan’s compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations, including program audits and Risk Adjustment Data Validation Audits (or “RADV audits”), which focus on compliance with proper coding practices. Certain of our contracts are currently subject to RADV audits by CMS and the OIG. CMS has announced its intent to use third-party auditors to audit all Medicare Advantage contracts by either a comprehensive or a targeted RADV review for each contract year. The DOJ is also currently conducting an industry-wide investigation of the risk adjustment data submission practices and business processes, including review of medical charts, of Cigna and a number of other Medicare Advantage organizations under Medicare Parts C and D. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



For our Medicare Part D business, compliance with fraud and abuse enforcement practices is monitored through Recovery Audit Contractor audits in which third-party contractors conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper payments.



Government Procurement Regulations



We have a contract with the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”), which subjects us to applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and the DoD FAR Supplement, which govern federal government contracts. Further, there are other federal and state laws applicable to our DoD arrangement and our arrangements with other clients that may be subject to government procurement regulations. In addition, certain of our clients participate as contracting carriers in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program administered by the Office of Personnel Management, which includes various pharmacy benefit management standards.



Employee Retirement Income Security Act



Our domestic subsidiaries sell most of their products and services to sponsors of employee benefit plans that are governed by ERISA. ERISA is a complex set of federal laws and regulations enforced by the IRS and the DOL, as well as the courts. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationship between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries are also subject to requirements imposed by ERISA affecting claim





payment and appeals procedures for individual health insurance and insured and self-insured group health plans and for the insured dental, disability, life and accident plans we administer. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries also may contractually agree to comply with these requirements on behalf of the self-insured dental, disability, life and accident plans they administer. We believe the conduct of our pharmacy benefit management business is not generally subject to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA. However, there can be no assurances that the DOL may not assert that pharmacy benefit managers are fiduciaries. From time to time, states have considered legislation to declare a pharmacy benefit manager or health benefit manager a fiduciary with respect to its clients.



Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the legal question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law will continue to be subject to court interpretation.



Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulations



Many of our activities involve the receipt or use of confidential health and other personal information. In addition, we use aggregated and de-identified data for our own research and analysis purposes and, in some cases, provide access to such data to pharmaceutical manufacturers and third-party data aggregators. There are also industry standards for handling credit card data known as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which are a set of requirements designed to help ensure that entities that process, store or transmit credit card information maintain a secure environment. Certain states have incorporated these requirements into state laws or enacted other requirements for using and disclosing personal information.



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (“HIPAA”) impose minimum standards on health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, HMOs, health plans, health care providers and clearinghouses for the privacy and security of protected health information. HIPAA regulations may also hold us liable for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). HIPAA also established rules that standardize the format and content of certain electronic transactions, including, but not limited to, eligibility and claims.



The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”) imposes additional contracting requirements for covered entities, the extension of privacy and security provisions to business associates, the requirement to provide notification to various parties in the event of a data breach of protected health information, and enhanced financial penalties for HIPAA violations, including potential criminal penalties for individuals. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate.



The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its implementing regulations generally places restrictions on the disclosure of nonpublic information to nonaffiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their nonpublic personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law.



State and local authorities are increasingly focused on protecting individuals from identity theft and a number of states have adopted data security laws and regulations requiring certain minimum data security standards and security breach notifications that may apply to us in certain circumstances. Neither HIPAA nor the Gramm-Leach-Bliley privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations. The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which went into effect in January 2020, provides additional privacy rights for California residents although it generally does not apply to certain regulated data such as information covered by HIPAA.



The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (“CISA”) encourages organizations to share cyber threat indicators with the federal government and, among other things, directs HHS to develop a set of voluntary cybersecurity best practices for organizations in the health care industry. States have also begun to issue regulations specifically related to cybersecurity, which may differ or conflict from state to state. In October 2017, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), an organization of state insurance regulators, adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law that creates rules for insurers and other covered entities addressing data security, investigation and notification of breaches. This includes maintaining an information security program based on ongoing risk assessment, overseeing third-party service providers, investigating data breaches and notifying regulators of a cybersecurity event. As the model law is intended to serve as model legislation only, states will need to enact legislation for the model law to become mandatory and enforceable. We will continue to monitor states’ activity regarding cybersecurity regulation.



In addition, international laws, rules and regulations governing the use and disclosure of personal information can be more stringent than in the United States, and they vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective May 2018, enhanced or created obligations regarding the handling of personal data relating to European residents, such as regarding notices, data protection impact assessments, and individual rights, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance than the previous European Directive or laws. In addition, many countries outside of Europe where we





conduct business have implemented or may implement data protection laws and regulations, some of which include requirements modeled after those in the GDPR.



See Part 1. Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with privacy and security regulations.



Consumer Protection Laws



We engage in direct-to-consumer activities and are increasingly offering mobile and web-based solutions to our customers. We are therefore subject to federal and state regulations applicable to electronic communications and other consumer protection laws and regulations, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the CAN-SPAM Act. The FTC is also increasingly exercising its enforcement authority in the areas of consumer privacy and data security, with a focus on web-based, mobile data and “big data.” Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information.



Most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations and multistate settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to retail pharmacies in connection with product conversion programs. Such statutes have also been cited as the basis for claims or investigations by state attorneys general relative to privacy and data security.



Office of Foreign Assets Control Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering



We are also subject to regulation by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury that administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries and regimes based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. Certain of our products are subject to the Department of the Treasury anti-money laundering regulations under the Bank Secrecy Act. In addition, we are subject to similar regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate.



Corporate Practice of Medicine and Other Laws



Many states in which our subsidiaries operate limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians. Statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary widely from state to state. Under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed health care providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls, and maintaining malpractice insurance. We believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, and similar issues. However, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging noncompliance with these statutes could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business.



Laws and Legislation Affecting Plan Design and Pharmacy Network Access





Additionally, Medicare Part D and a majority of states now have laws, regulations or some form of legislation affecting our ability, or our clients’ ability, to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove a provider from a network. Such laws, regulations or





legislation may require us or our clients to admit any retail pharmacy or provider willing to meet the plan’s terms and conditions for network participation (“any willing provider”) or may direct that a provider may not be removed from a network except in compliance with certain procedures (“due process”).



Certain states have laws prohibiting certain pharmacy benefit management clients from imposing additional co-payments, deductibles, limitations on benefits, or other conditions on covered individuals utilizing a retail pharmacy when the same conditions are not otherwise imposed on covered individuals utilizing home delivery pharmacies. However, the laws require the retail pharmacy to agree to the same reimbursement amounts and terms and conditions as are imposed on the home delivery pharmacies. An increase in the number of prescriptions filled at retail pharmacies may have a negative impact on the number of prescriptions filled through home delivery.



Pharmacy Benefit Management and Drug Pricing Regulation





The U.S. Congress, current administration, and states will continue to prioritize, means of addressing out-of-pocket costs for consumers, particularly related to prescription drug costs. Policy proposals vary broadly in their approaches to achieve that goal, and range from proposing the creation of an international pricing index to which U.S. drug pricing would be benchmarked; reforming the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulatory processes and patent laws in order to accelerate the arrival of generics, biosimilars and clinically equivalent competition to the market; enabling states to import lower priced prescription drugs into the United States; or expanding the role of the federal or state governments to negotiate pricing of prescription drugs directly with manufacturers. Additionally, proposals at the federal and state levels consider increased regulation of pharmacy benefit managers and health plans as a means to limit consumer out of pocket costs, including proposing to limit the use of various pharmacy benefit management tools; mandating the treatment of fees, discounts or financing mechanisms that otherwise are set in private contractual terms; increasing supply chain transparency; expanding regulatory requirements or definitions of fiduciaries; or mandating plan benefit designs that cap consumer out-of-pocket expense.



Prescription drug pricing and the role of pharmacy benefit managers have been a focus of the current administration. In May 2018, the current administration announced a blueprint, titled “American Patients First,” which outlines a variety of approaches that could be adopted to lower prescription drug costs in the United States. Proposed rules regarding revisions to the federal anti-kickback safe harbor were rescinded in July 2019. In October 2018, Congress enacted laws that prohibited pharmacy benefit managers and insurers from restricting pharmacies from providing drug pricing information to a plan enrollee when there is a difference between the cost of the drug under insurance and the cost of the drug when purchased without insurance. While the other issues raised in the blueprint continue to be the subject of legislative and regulatory discussion, formal policies and requirements have not been finalized in any form.



Some states have enacted statutes regulating the use of maximum allowable cost (“MAC”) pricing. These statutes, referred to as “MAC Transparency Laws,” generally require pharmacy benefit managers to disclose specific information related to MAC pricing to pharmacies and provide certain appeal rights for pharmacies. MAC Transparency Laws also restrict the application of MAC and may require operational changes to maintain compliance with the law. Some states have also enacted laws regulating pharmacy pricing and protecting the profitability of pharmacies for dispensing certain MAC-priced drugs. Some states have enacted laws requiring that the customer cost-share for a prescription drug claim not exceed certain price points, such as the pharmacy’s usual and customary charge or its contracted reimbursement for the drug.



In March 2018, the NAIC adopted changes to the Health Carrier Prescription Drug Benefit Management Model Act. The changes address issues relating to (i) transparency, accuracy and disclosure regarding prescription drug formularies and formulary changes during a policy year; (ii) accessibility of prescription drug benefits using a variety of pharmacy options; and (iii) tiered prescription drug formularies and discriminatory benefit design. While the actions of the NAIC do not have the force of law, they are used as a





template to influence states to adopt laws based on the model legislation. We are expecting an enhanced NAIC model act on pharmacy benefit manager licensure and regulation to be adopted by the NAIC in late 2020.



The federal Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs reimbursed through state Medicaid programs, including through Medicaid managed care organizations. Manufacturers of brand-name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of (a) 23.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) paid by retail community pharmacies or by wholesalers for certain drugs distributed to retail community pharmacies, or (b) the difference between AMP and the “best price” available to essentially any customer other than the Medicaid program and certain other government programs, with certain exceptions. We negotiate rebates with drug manufacturers and, in certain circumstances, sell services to drug manufacturers. Investigations are being and have been conducted by certain government entities which call into question whether a drug’s “best price” was properly calculated and reported with respect to rebates paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments.



Pharmacy Regulation



Our home delivery and specialty pharmacies also subject us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. The practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. We are licensed to do business as a pharmacy in the states in which our pharmacies are located. Most of the states into which we deliver pharmaceuticals have laws that require out-of-state home delivery pharmacies to register with, or be licensed by, the board of pharmacy or a similar regulatory body in the state. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state where the pharmacy is located, although some states require compliance with certain laws in that state as it impacts or relates to drugs distributed or dispensed into those states.



Our various pharmacy facilities also provide services under certain Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Participation in these programs requires our pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations, and exposes the pharmacies to various changes the federal and state governments may impose regarding reimbursement methodologies and amounts to be paid to participating providers under these programs. In addition, several of our pharmacy facilities are participating providers under Medicare Part D and are required to adhere to certain requirements applicable to Medicare Part D. Additionally, we are subject to CMS rules regarding the administration of our Medicare plans and intercompany pricing between our plans and our pharmacy business.



Other statutes and regulations affect our home delivery and specialty pharmacy operations, including the federal and state anti-kickback laws and the federal civil monetary penalty law described above. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising, adulteration and security of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances and certain of our pharmacies must register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities. The FTC requires mail order sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the product to be sold, to fill mail orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. The United States Postal Service also has significant statutory authority to restrict the delivery of drugs and medicines through the mail.



Financial Reporting, Internal Control and Corporate Governance



Regulators closely monitor the financial condition of licensed insurance companies and HMOs. States regulate the form and content of statutory financial statements, the type and concentration of permitted investments, and corporate governance over financial reporting. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries are required to file periodic financial reports and schedules with regulators in most of the jurisdictions in which they do business as well as annual financial statements audited by independent registered public accounting firms. Certain insurance and HMO subsidiaries are required to file an annual report of internal control over financial reporting with most jurisdictions in which they do business. Insurance and HMO subsidiaries’ operations and financial statements are subject to examination by such agencies. Many states have expanded regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of insurance and HMO subsidiaries as a result of model regulations adopted by the NAIC with elements similar to corporate governance and risk oversight disclosure requirements under federal securities laws.



Guaranty Associations, Indemnity Funds, Risk Pools and Administrative Funds



Most states and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions require insurance companies to support guaranty associations or indemnity funds that are established to pay claims on behalf of insolvent insurance companies. Some states have similar laws relating to HMOs and other payors, such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. In the United States, these associations levy assessments on member insurers licensed in a particular state to pay such claims. Certain states require HMOs to participate in guaranty funds, special risk pools and administrative funds. For additional information about guaranty funds and other assessments, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.







Certain states continue to require health insurers and HMOs to participate in assigned risk plans, joint underwriting authorities, pools or other residual market mechanisms to cover risks not acceptable under normal underwriting standards, although some states have eliminated these requirements as a result of the ACA.



Solvency and Capital Requirements



Many states have adopted some form of the NAIC model solvency-related laws and risk-based capital (“RBC”) rules for life and health insurance companies and HMOs. The RBC rules recommend a minimum level of capital depending on the types and quality of investments held, the types of business written and the types of liabilities incurred. If the ratio of the insurer’s adjusted surplus to its RBC falls below statutorily required minimums, the insurer could be subject to regulatory actions ranging from increased scrutiny to conservatorship.



In addition, various non-U.S. jurisdictions prescribe minimum surplus requirements that are based upon solvency, liquidity and reserve coverage measures. Our HMOs and life and health insurance subsidiaries, as well as non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are compliant with applicable RBC and non-U.S. surplus rules.



The Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA”), adopted by the NAIC, provides requirements and principles for maintaining a group solvency assessment and a risk management framework and reflects a broader approach to U.S. insurance regulation. ORSA includes a requirement to file an annual ORSA Summary Report in the lead state of domicile. To date, an overwhelming majority of the states have adopted the same or similar versions of ORSA. We file our ORSA report annually as required.



Holding Company Laws



Our domestic insurance companies and certain of our HMOs are subject to state laws regulating subsidiaries of insurance holding companies. Under such laws, certain dividends, distributions and other transactions between an insurance company or an HMO subsidiary and its affiliates may require notification to, or approval by, one or more state insurance commissioners. In addition, the holding company acts of states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO subsidiary without prior regulatory approval. State holding company laws and regulations also subject our insurance companies and certain HMO subsidiaries to additional regulatory scrutiny related to their oversight of affiliates performing regulated services on behalf of the insurance company or HMO and require the Company to file an annual Enterprise Risk Report, which summarizes material risks that could pose enterprise risk to the insurance company subsidiaries.



Marketing, Advertising and Products



In most states, our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries are required to certify compliance with applicable advertising regulations on an annual basis. Our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries are also required by most states to file and secure regulatory approval of products prior to the marketing, advertising, and sale of such products.



Licensing and Registration Requirements



Our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. Additionally, certain subsidiaries contract to provide claim administration, utilization management and other related services for the administration of self-insured benefit plans. These subsidiaries may be subject to state third-party administration and other licensing requirements and regulation, as well as third-party accreditation requirements.



We have received full accreditation for Utilization Review Accreditation Commission Pharmacy Benefit Management version 2.2 Standards, which includes quality standards for drug utilization management, and select subsidiaries have received full accreditation for Utilization Review Accreditation Commission for Health Utilization Management version 7.2, which includes quality standards for medical utilization management.



Certain states have adopted pharmacy benefit management registration or disclosure laws. In addition to registration laws, some states have adopted legislation mandating disclosure of various aspects of our financial practices, including those concerning pharmaceutical company revenue, as well as prescribing processes for prescription switching programs and client and provider audit terms.



Our international subsidiaries are often required to be licensed when entering new markets or starting new operations in certain jurisdictions. The licensure requirements for these subsidiaries vary by country and are subject to change.







International Regulations



Our operations outside the United States expose us to laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies and regulators, including those related to the provision of insurance, financial and other disclosures, the provision of health care-related services, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, data mining, data transfer, intellectual property, labor and employment, consumer protection, direct-to-consumer communications activities, tax, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. Foreign laws and rules may include requirements that are different from, or more stringent than, similar requirements in the United States.



Our operations in countries outside the United States:

•are subject to local regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate;

•in some cases, are subject to regulations in the jurisdictions where customers reside; and

•in all cases, are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).



In particular, in South Korea, regulators are focused on protecting the rights of individual customers by enforcing “Treating Customers Fairly” concepts. This regulatory focus has resulted in rigorous data localization requirements, network separation obligations, and system monitoring restrictions, as well as obligations to closely monitor marketing communications and sales scripts. Anti-money laundering requirements in South Korea and other countries where we do business also may impose obligations to collect certain information about each customer at time of sale or to risk rank each customer to determine possible future money laundering risk.



The FCPA prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official or employee to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. Outside of the United States, we may interact with government officials in several different capacities: as regulators of our insurance business; as clients or partners who are state-owned or partially state-owned; as health care providers who are employed by the government; as hospitals that are state-owned; and as officials issuing permits in connection with real estate transactions. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and DOJ have increased their enforcement activities with respect to FCPA. The UK Bribery Act of 2010 applies to all companies with a nexus to the United Kingdom. Under this act, any voluntary disclosures of FCPA violations may be shared with United Kingdom authorities, thus potentially exposing companies to liability and potential penalties in multiple jurisdictions.











