10-K


d10877e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-14122

D.R. HORTON, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes

þ

No

o

As of March 31,
2003, the aggregate market value of the outstanding shares held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$2,291,672,000. Solely for purposes of this calculation, all
directors and executive officers were excluded as affiliates of
the registrant.

As of December 4,
2003, there were 157,535,358 shares of Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, issued and 154,882,558 shares
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004
Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated herein by
reference in Part III.



PART 1

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

D. R. Horton, Inc. is a national
homebuilder. (Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
“D.R. Horton,” the “Company,”
“we” and “our” used herein refer to
D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
predecessors and subsidiaries.) As a national homebuilder, we
construct and sell single-family homes in metropolitan areas of
the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Southeast, Southwest and West regions
of the United States. We offer high quality homes, designed
principally for first-time and move-up home buyers. Our homes
generally range in size from 1,000 to 5,000 square feet and
range in price from $80,000 to $900,000. For the year ended
September 30, 2003, we closed 35,934 homes with an
average sales price approximating $231,900.

We are one of the largest and most geographically
diversified homebuilders in the United States, with operating
divisions in 20 states and 47 markets as of
September 30, 2003. The markets we operate in include:
Albuquerque, Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Bend (Oregon),
Birmingham, Charleston, Charlotte, Chicago, Colorado Springs,
Columbia, Dallas, Denver, Fort Collins, Fort Myers/
Naples, Fort Worth, Greensboro, Greenville, Hawaii, Hilton
Head, Houston, Inland Empire (Southern California),
Jacksonville, Killeen (Texas), Las Vegas, Los Angeles,
Maryland-D.C., Miami/ West Palm Beach, Minneapolis/ St. Paul,
Myrtle Beach, New Jersey, Oakland, Orange County, Orlando,
Phoenix, Portland, Raleigh/ Durham, Sacramento, Salt Lake City,
San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle/
Tacoma, Tampa, Tucson, Ventura County and Virginia-D.C.

We build homes under the following names:
D.R. Horton, Cambridge, Continental, Dietz Crane, Emerald,
Melody, Milburn, Schuler, Stafford, Torrey, Trimark and Western
Pacific.

Our financial reporting segments consist of
homebuilding and financial services. Our homebuilding operations
comprise the most substantial part of our business, with
approximately 98% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2001, 2002
and 2003. Our homebuilding operations segment generates the
majority of its revenues from the sale of completed homes with a
lesser amount from the sale of land and lots. Our financial
services segment generates its revenues from originating and
selling mortgages and collecting fees for title insurance and
closing services. Financial information, including revenue,
pre-tax income and identifiable assets, for both of our
reporting segments is included in our consolidated financial
statements.

Donald R. Horton began our homebuilding business
in 1978. In 1991, we were incorporated in Delaware to acquire
the assets and businesses of our predecessor companies, which
were residential home construction and development companies
owned or controlled by Mr. Horton. In the last ten fiscal
years, we have acquired 17 other homebuilding companies.
Our acquisitions have strengthened our market position in
existing markets and expanded our geographic presence and
product offerings in other markets.

We make available, as soon as reasonably
practicable, on our Internet website all of our reports required
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These
reports include our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
changes in beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4, and
5 and proxy statement and amendments to such reports. These
reports may be accessed by going to our website at
www.drhorton.com and clicking on the “Investor
Relations” link. We will also provide these reports in
electronic or paper format to our stockholders free of charge
upon request made to our Investor Relations department.
Information on our Internet website is not part of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Our principal executive offices are located at
1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100, Arlington, Texas
76006, our telephone number is (817) 856-8200, and our
Internet website address is www.drhorton.com.



Operating Strategy

We believe that the following operating
strategies have enabled us to achieve consistent growth and
profitability:

Geographic Diversity

From 1978 to late 1987, excluding locations
acquired in our 1998 merger with Continental Homes, our
homebuilding activities were conducted in the Dallas/
Fort Worth area. We then instituted a strategy of
diversifying geographically, entering the following of our
current markets, both through startup operations and
acquisitions, in the years shown:

We continually monitor the sales and margins
achieved in each of the subdivisions in which we operate as part
of our evaluation of the use of our capital. While we believe
there are significant growth opportunities in our existing
markets, we also intend to continue our policy of
diversification by seeking to enter new markets. We believe our
diversification strategy mitigates the effects of local and
regional economic cycles and enhances our growth potential.
Typically, we will not invest material amounts in real estate,
including raw land, developed lots, models and speculative
homes, or overhead in start-up operations in new markets, until
such markets demonstrate significant growth potential and
acceptance of our products.

Acquisitions

We are currently focusing on internal growth.
However, as an integral component of our operational strategy of
continued expansion, we are continuing our historical approach
of evaluating opportunities for strategic acquisitions in the
future. We believe that expanding our operations through the
acquisition of



existing homebuilding companies has afforded us
several benefits not found in start-up operations. Such benefits
include:

In evaluating potential acquisition candidates,
we have sought homebuilding companies that have an excellent
reputation, a track record of profitability and a strong
management team with an entrepreneurial orientation. We have
limited the risks associated with acquiring a going concern by
conducting extensive operational, financial and legal due
diligence on each acquisition and by only acquiring homebuilding
companies that we believe will have an immediate positive impact
on our earnings. In the last ten fiscal years, we have made
17 acquisitions. In the future, we may resume acquisitions
of homebuilders that satisfy our acquisition criteria in
existing or new markets.

Decentralized Operations

We decentralize our homebuilding activities to
give more operating flexibility to our local division
presidents. We have 43 separate operating divisions, some
of which operate in the same market area and some of which
operate in more than one market area. Generally, each operating
division consists of a division president, a land acquisition
manager, a sales manager and sales personnel, a construction
manager and construction superintendents, a controller, a
purchasing manager and office staff. We believe that division
presidents, who are intimately familiar with local conditions,
make better decisions regarding local operations. Our division
presidents receive performance bonuses based upon achieving
targeted operating levels in their operating divisions.

Operating Division Responsibilities

Each operating division is responsible for:

•

Site selection, which involves

— A feasibility study;

— Soil and environmental reviews;

— Review of existing zoning and other
governmental requirements; and

— Review of the need for and extent of
offsite work required to meet local building codes;

Corporate Office Controls

The corporate office controls key risk elements
through centralized:

•

Financing;

•

Cash management;



Cost Management

We control our overhead costs by centralized
administrative and accounting functions and by limiting the
number of field administrative personnel and middle level
management positions. We also minimize advertising costs by
participating in promotional activities, publications and
newsletters sponsored by local real estate brokers, mortgage
companies, utility companies and trade associations.

We control construction costs through the
efficient design of our homes and by obtaining favorable pricing
from certain subcontractors and national vendors based on the
high volume of services and products they provide us. We also
control construction costs by monitoring costs on each house
through our purchase order system. We control capital and
overhead costs by monitoring our inventory levels through our
management information systems.

Markets

We conduct homebuilding activities in five
geographic regions, consisting of:

When entering new markets or conducting
operations in existing markets, among the things we consider are:



Our homebuilding revenues, which include land and
lot sales, by geographic region are:

Land Policies

Typically, we acquire land only after necessary
“entitlements” have been obtained,

i.e.,

when
we have the right to begin development or construction. Before
we acquire lots or tracts of land, we will, among other things,
complete a feasibility study, which includes soil tests,
independent environmental studies and other engineering work,
and determine that all necessary zoning and other governmental
entitlements required to develop and use the property for home
construction have been acquired. Although we purchase and
develop land primarily to support our own homebuilding
activities, occasionally we sell lots and land to other
developers and homebuilders.

We also use lot option contracts, in which we
purchase the right, but not the obligation, to buy building lots
at predetermined prices on a takedown schedule commensurate with
anticipated home closings. Lot option contracts generally are on
a non-recourse basis, thereby limiting our financial exposure to
earnest money deposits given to property sellers. This enables
us to control significant lot positions with a minimal capital
investment and substantially reduces the risks associated with
land ownership and development. At September 30, 2003,
about 51% of our total lot position of 179,370 lots was under
option contracts.

The following is a summary of our land/lot
positions at September 30, 2003:

We limit our exposure to real estate inventory
risks by:



Construction

Our home designs are prepared by architects in
each of our markets to appeal to local tastes and preferences of
the community. We also offer optional interior and exterior
features to enhance the basic home design and to promote our
sales efforts.

Substantially all of our construction work is
performed by subcontractors. Our construction supervisors
monitor the construction of each home, participate in important
design and building decisions, coordinate the activities of
subcontractors and suppliers, subject the work of subcontractors
to quality and cost controls and monitor compliance with zoning
and building codes. Subcontractors typically are retained for a
specific subdivision pursuant to a contract that obligates the
subcontractor to complete construction at a fixed price.
Agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers generally are
negotiated for each subdivision. We compete with other
homebuilders for qualified subcontractors, raw materials and
lots in the markets where we operate.

Construction time for our homes depends on the
weather, availability of labor, materials and supplies, size of
the home, and other factors. We typically complete the
construction of a home within four months.

We do not maintain significant inventories of
construction materials, except for work in process materials for
homes under construction. Typically, the construction materials
used in our operations are readily available from numerous
sources. We have contracts exceeding one year with certain
suppliers of our building materials that are cancellable at our
option with a 30 day notice. In recent years, we have not
experienced any significant delays in construction due to
shortages of materials or labor.

Marketing and Sales

We market and sell our homes through commissioned
employees and independent real estate brokers. We typically
conduct home sales from sales offices located in furnished model
homes in each subdivision. At September 30, 2003, we owned
1,453 model homes, which we generally do not offer for sale
until the completion of a subdivision. Our sales personnel
assist prospective home buyers by providing them with floor
plans, price information, tours of model homes and the selection
of options and other custom features. We train and inform our
sales personnel as to the availability of financing,
construction schedules, and marketing and advertising plans.

In addition to using model homes, we typically
build a limited number of speculative homes in each subdivision
to enhance our marketing and sales activities. Construction of
these speculative homes also is necessary to satisfy the
requirements of relocated personnel and independent brokers, who
often represent home buyers requiring a completed home within
60 days. We sell a majority of these speculative homes
while they are under construction or immediately following
completion. The number of speculative homes is influenced by
local market factors, such as new employment opportunities,
significant job relocations, growing housing demand and the
length of time we have built in the market. Depending upon the
seasonality of each market, we attempt to limit our speculative
homes in each subdivision. At September 30, 2003, we
averaged less than six speculative homes, in various stages of
construction, in each subdivision.

We advertise on a limited basis in newspapers and
in real estate broker, mortgage company and utility
publications, brochures, newsletters and on billboards. In
addition, we use our Internet website to market the location,
price range and availability of our homes. To minimize
advertising costs, we attempt to operate in subdivisions in
conspicuous locations that permit us to take advantage of local
traffic patterns. We also believe that model homes play a
significant role in our marketing efforts. Consequently, we
expend significant effort in creating an attractive atmosphere
in our model homes.

Our sales contracts require a down payment of at
least $500. The contracts include a financing contingency which
permits customers to cancel if they cannot obtain mortgage
financing at prevailing interest rates within a specified
period, typically four to six weeks, and may include other
contingencies, such as the sale of an existing home. We include
a home sale in our sales backlog when the sales contract is
signed and we have received the initial down payment. We
recognize revenue from the sale of a home only when it is closed
and title passes to the home buyer. The average period between
the signing of a sales contract for a home and closing is
approximately three to five months.



Customer Service and Quality Control

Our operating divisions are responsible for
pre-closing quality control inspections and responding to
customers’ post-closing needs. We believe that prompt and
courteous response to home buyers’ needs during and after
construction reduces post-closing repair costs, enhances our
reputation for quality and service, and ultimately leads to
significant repeat and referral business from the real estate
community and home buyers. We provide our home buyers with a
limited one-year warranty on workmanship and building materials.
The subcontractors who perform most of the actual construction
also provide us with warranties on workmanship and are generally
prepared to respond to us and the homeowner promptly upon
request. In addition, we provide a supplemental ten-year limited
warranty that covers major construction defects.

Customer Financing

We provide mortgage financing services
principally to purchasers of homes we build and sell.
CH Mortgage, a wholly-owned subsidiary, provides mortgage
banking services in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida,
Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New
Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia
and Washington. During the year ended September 30, 2003,
in the markets served, our combined mortgage banking entities
provided mortgage financing services for approximately 73% of
the homes closed that required mortgage financing, an increase
from 72% during the year ended September 30, 2002.

In other markets where we currently do not
provide mortgage financing, we work with a variety of mortgage
lenders that make available to home buyers a range of
conventional mortgage financing programs. By making information
about these programs available to prospective home buyers and
maintaining a relationship with such mortgage lenders, we are
able to coordinate and expedite the entire sales transaction by
ensuring that mortgage commitments are received and that
closings take place on a timely and efficient basis.

Title Services

Through our subsidiaries, Century Title, Custom
Title, DRH Title Company of Texas, Ltd., DRH Title
Company of Florida, Inc., DRH Title Company of Minnesota,
Inc., Grande Title Agency, LLC, Metro Title Company and Travis
County Title Company, we serve as a title insurance agent by
providing title insurance policies, examination and closing
services to purchasers of homes we build in the Atlanta, Austin,
Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, Maryland-D.C., Miami/ West
Palm Beach, Minneapolis, New Jersey, Orlando, Phoenix,
San Antonio and Virginia-D.C. markets. We assume no
underwriting risk associated with these title policies.

Employees

At September 30, 2003, we employed 6,348
persons, of whom 1,345 were sales and marketing personnel, 2,138
were executive, administrative and clerical personnel, 1,767
were involved in construction, and 1,098 worked in mortgage and
title operations. The Company had fewer than 25 employees
covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees of some
of the subcontractors which we use are represented by labor
unions or are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We
believe that our relations with our employees and subcontractors
are good.

Competition

The single family residential housing industry is
highly competitive and we compete in each of our markets with
numerous other national, regional and local homebuilders. Our
homes compete on the basis of quality, price, design, mortgage
financing terms and location.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental
Matters

The housing, mortgage and title insurance
industries are subject to extensive and complex regulations. We
and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state
and local laws and regulations, including



zoning, density and development requirements,
building, environmental, advertising and consumer credit rules
and regulations, as well as other rules and regulations in
connection with our development, homebuilding, sales and
financial services activities. These include requirements
affecting the development process, as well as building materials
to be used, building designs and minimum elevation of
properties. Our homes are inspected by local authorities where
required, and homes eligible for insurance or guarantees
provided by the FHA and VA are subject to inspection by them.
These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
administering governmental authorities. This can delay or
increase the cost of development or homebuilding.

We also are subject to a variety of local, state
and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations
concerning protection of health and the environment. The
particular environmental laws for each site vary greatly
according to location, environmental condition and the present
and former uses of the site and adjoining properties. These
environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to incur
substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or
severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in
certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

Our internal mortgage activities and title
insurance agencies must also comply with various federal and
state laws, consumer credit rules and regulations and other
rules and regulations unique to such activities. Additionally,
mortgage loans and title activities originated under the FHA,
VA, FNMA and GNMA are subject to rules and regulations imposed
by those agencies.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

We own a 52,000 square foot office complex,
consisting of three single-story buildings of steel and brick
construction, located in Arlington, Texas, that serves as our
principal executive and administrative offices. We also own a
22,864 square foot building in Lakeville, Minnesota; a
27,000 square foot building in Westminster, Colorado; two
buildings in Englewood, Colorado totaling 28,217 square
feet; a 16,000 square foot building in The Woodlands,
Texas; and a 22,000 square foot building in Rowlett, Texas,
that serve as division offices for some of our operating
divisions. We lease approximately 796,000 square feet of
space for our other operating divisions under leases expiring
between October 2003 and March 2011.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to routine litigation incidental
to our business. Such matters, if decided adversely to us, would
not, in the opinion of management, have a material adverse
effect upon our financial condition.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our common stock (the “Common Stock”)
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“DHI”. The following table shows the high and low
sales prices for the Common Stock for the periods indicated, as
reported by the NYSE, adjusted for the three-for-two stock split
(effected as a 50% stock dividend) of April 9, 2002.

As of December 4, 2003, the closing price
was $43.86, and there were approximately 730 holders of record.
During fiscal 2003, we declared one quarterly cash dividend of
six cents per share and three quarterly cash dividends of seven
cents per share. During fiscal 2002, we declared one quarterly
cash dividend of five cents per share and three quarterly cash
dividends of six cents per share.

The declaration of cash dividends is at the
discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among
other things, future earnings, cash flows, capital requirements,
our general financial condition and general business conditions.
We are required to comply with certain covenants contained in
the bank agreements and senior note and senior subordinated note
indentures. The most restrictive of these requirements allows us
to pay cash dividends on Common Stock in an amount, on a
cumulative basis, not to exceed 50% of consolidated net income,
as defined, subject to certain other adjustments. Pursuant to
the most restrictive of these requirements, at
September 30, 2003, we had approximately
$373.4 million available for the payment of dividends, the
acquisition of our common stock and other restricted payments.



ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial
data are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements. The
data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements, related Notes thereto and other financial
data elsewhere herein. These historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the
future.

(1)

See Note C to the audited financial
    statements for details concerning acquisitions by the Company.

(2)

On February 21, 2002, D.R. Horton, Inc. and
    Schuler Homes, Inc. completed a merger in which D.R. Horton
    was the surviving corporation. The total merger consideration
    consisted of 20,079,532 shares of D.R. Horton common stock,
    valued at $30.93 per share; $168.7 million in cash;
    $802.2 million of assumed Schuler debt, $238.2 million
    of which was paid at closing; $218.7 million of assumed
    trade payables and other liabilities and $10.8 million of
    assumed obligations to the Schuler entities’ minority
    interest holders.

Schuler’s revenues for the
period February 22 through September 30, 2002 were
$1,246.6 million.

(3)

In fiscal 2001, we recorded a cumulative effect
    of a change in accounting principle of $2.1 million, net of
    income taxes of $1.3 million, as an adjustment to net
    income, related to our adoption of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133,
    “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities.” See Note A to the audited financial
    statements.

(4)

All basic and diluted income per share amounts
    have been restated to reflect the effects of the 9% stock
    dividend of September 29, 2000, the 11% stock dividend of
    March 23, 2001 and the three-for-two stock split (effected
    as a 50% stock dividend) of April 9, 2002.

(5)

On December 1, 2003, our Board of Directors
    declared a three-for-two common stock split (to be effected as a
    50% stock dividend), payable on January 12, 2004 to
    stockholders of record on December 22, 2003. See
    Note L to the audited financial statements.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General

—
A comprehensive enumeration of the significant accounting
policies of D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries is presented in
Note A to the accompanying financial statements as of
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and for the years ended
September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Each of our accounting
policies has been chosen based upon current authoritative
literature that collectively comprises Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for public companies
operating in the United States of America. In instances where
alternative methods of accounting are permissible under GAAP, we
have chosen the method that most appropriately reflects the
nature of our business, the results of our operations and our
financial condition, and have consistently applied those methods
over each of the periods presented in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has reviewed and
approved the accounting policies selected.

Basis of
presentation

— Our financial
statements include the accounts of D.R. Horton, Inc. and all of
its majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany accounts, transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation. We have also consolidated certain
variable interest entities from which we are purchasing lots
under option purchase contracts, under the requirements of
Interpretation No. 46 issued by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”).

Segment
information

— Our reportable
business segments consist of homebuilding and financial
services. Our homebuilding segment derives the majority of its
revenue from constructing and selling single-family housing in
20 states and 47 markets throughout the United States. The
financial services segment generates revenue by originating and
selling mortgage loans and by collecting fees for title
insurance and closing services in many of the same markets. We
have no foreign subsidiaries or operations.

Revenue
recognition

— We recognize
homebuilding revenues when a home closes and title to and
possession of the property are transferred to the buyer.
Virtually all of our homebuilding revenues are received in cash
within a day or two of closing. We include amounts in transit
from title companies at the end of each reporting period in
homebuilding cash. When we execute a sales contract with our
home buyers, or when we require advance payment from home buyers
for custom changes, upgrades or options related to their homes,
we record the cash deposits as liabilities until the homes are
closed or the contracts are canceled. We either retain or refund
to the home buyer deposits on canceled sales contracts,
depending upon the applicable provisions of the contract.

We recognize financial services revenues
associated with our title operations as homes are closed,
closing services are rendered and title insurance policies are
issued, all of which generally occur simultaneously as each home
is closed. We recognize the majority of the revenues associated
with our mortgage loan operations when the mortgage loans and
related servicing rights are sold to third-party investors. We
earn mortgage loan origination fees when we close and fund the
loans associated with the homes financed. We defer the earned
origination fees, net of direct origination costs, and recognize
them as revenues, along with the associated gains or losses on
the sales of the loans and related servicing rights, when the
loans are sold to third-party investors. All of the financial
services mortgage loans and related servicing rights are sold to
third-party investors. All of the underwriting risk associated
with title insurance policies is transferred to third-party
insurers.

Inventories

—
We use the specific identification method for the purpose of
accumulating costs associated with home construction. We state
inventories at the lower of historical cost or fair value in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 144. In addition to the costs of
direct land acquisition, land development and home construction,
inventory costs include interest, real estate taxes and direct
overhead costs incurred during development and home
construction. Applicable direct overhead costs that we incur
after development projects or homes are substantially complete
are charged to selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expense as incurred. All indirect overhead costs, such as
construction superintendents’ compensation, advertising and
builder’s risk insurance are either charged to SG&A
expense as incurred or, in the case of builder’s risk
insurance, amortized to SG&A expense over the applicable
policy periods.



We amortize to cost of sales for homes closed all
applicable land acquisition, land development and related costs
(both incurred and estimated to be incurred) based upon the
total number of homes expected to be closed in each project. Any
changes to the estimated total development costs subsequent to
the initial home closings in a project are generally allocated
on a pro-rata basis to the remaining homes in the project.

When a home is closed, we usually have not yet
recorded and paid all incurred costs necessary to complete the
home. Each month we record as a liability and as a charge to
cost of sales the amount we estimate will ultimately be paid
related to completed homes that have been closed as of the end
of that month. We compare our home construction budgets to
actual recorded costs to estimate the additional costs needed to
complete each closed home. We monitor the accuracy of each
month’s accrual by comparing actual costs incurred on
closed homes in subsequent months to the amount we accrued.
Although actual costs to complete in the future could differ
from our current estimate, our method has historically produced
consistently accurate estimates of actual costs to complete
closed homes.

Each quarter, we review all components of our
inventory for the purpose of determining whether recorded costs
and costs required to complete each home (or project) are
recoverable. If our review indicates that an impairment loss is
required under the SFAS No. 144 guidelines, we
estimate and record such loss to cost of sales in that quarter.
To date, such impairment losses have occurred primarily in
markets that we have chosen to abandon, and have been
insignificant in the aggregate. Fair value estimation under
SFAS No. 144 involves management estimates of future
revenues and costs and, due to uncertainties in the estimation
process, actual results could differ from such estimates.

Warranty
Costs

— Warranty reserves
have been established by charging cost of sales and crediting a
warranty liability for each home closed. The amounts charged are
estimated by management to be adequate to cover expected
warranty-related costs for materials and labor required under
one- and ten-year warranty obligation periods. The one-year
warranty is comprehensive for all parts and labor; the ten-year
period is for major construction defects. Our warranty cost
accruals are based upon our historical warranty cost experience
in each market in which we operate and are adjusted as
appropriate to reflect qualitative risks associated with the
type of homes we build and the geographic areas in which we
build them. Actual future warranty costs could differ from our
currently estimated amounts.

Litigation
Reserves

— Litigation
reserves have been established for estimated amounts based on an
actuarial analysis of our past history of claims. We have, and
require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general
liability insurance that protects us against a portion of our
risk of loss from construction-related claims. We reserve for
costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible
amounts under those policies and for any costs in excess of our
coverage limits. Because of the high degree of judgment required
in determining these estimated reserve amounts, actual future
litigation costs could differ from our currently estimated
amounts.

Interest rate
swaps

— We have two interest
rate swap agreements with a major United States bank under which
we receive each quarter the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) and pay a fixed amount that averages 5.1% on a
total notional amount of $200 million. We entered into both
of the ten-year swap contracts in 1998. Because we were
unwilling to “buy out” the bank’s current right
to cancel each swap during any quarter in which LIBOR exceeds
7%, we chose not to designate the swaps as cash-flow hedges
under SFAS No. 133, which we adopted on
October 1, 2000. As a result, even though they still
protect us to some extent from increases in variable interest
rates associated with our revolving credit facility, we are
required to record the changes in their market value in our
income statement each quarter. At the end of each quarter, the
swaps’ market value will have changed depending upon the
market’s current anticipation of quarterly LIBOR rate
levels from the present until the swaps’ maturity in 2008.
The swaps’ market values generally vary directly with
changes in anticipated future LIBOR rates. We recorded a gain of
$1.8 million during this fiscal year which reduced the
liability associated with our interest rate swaps to
$20.8 million at September 30, 2003, from
$22.6 million at September 30, 2002. The liability is
a result of declines in short term interest rates in past years
that resulted in a decline in the swaps’ market value. We
cannot predict the changes in either future LIBOR rates or the
market values of our swaps. Any future reductions in anticipated
LIBOR rates could result in corresponding future reductions in
their market value and charges to our income statements.



Similarly, any future increases in anticipated
LIBOR rates could result in corresponding future increases in
their market value and increases in our reported earnings. In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, due to increases in
anticipated LIBOR rates, their market value increased by
$4.1 million, requiring us to record an increase in
earnings before income taxes of that amount. By their maturity
in 2008, the swaps’ market values will be zero, so all of
the current $20.8 million liability will have been added
back to earnings by then, offsetting at least partially any
amounts we will have been required to pay to the counter-party
during that time.

Goodwill

—
We adopted SFAS No. 142 at the beginning of fiscal
2002. Under its provisions, we are no longer permitted to
amortize goodwill to earnings. Such amounts are recorded on our
balance sheet under the caption “excess of cost over net
assets acquired” and, in our homebuilding segment, totaled
$578.9 million at September 30, 2003.
SFAS No. 142 requires companies to periodically assess
recorded goodwill amounts for the purpose of determining whether
any impairments have occurred and need to be recorded. We have
measured the fair value of our reporting units using a
discounted cash flow model and determined that the fair value of
our reporting units was greater than their book value and
therefore no impairment of goodwill existed. We continually
evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that
indicate the remaining balance of goodwill may not be
recoverable. The goodwill assessment procedures required by
SFAS No. 142 require management to make comprehensive
estimates of future revenues and costs and due to the
uncertainties associated with such estimates, actual results
could differ from such estimates.

Stock-based
compensation

— With the
approval of a committee consisting of independent members of our
Board of Directors, we occasionally issue to employees options
to purchase our common stock. The committee approves grants only
out of amounts remaining available for grant from amounts
formally authorized by our common stockholders. We grant
approved options with strike prices equal to the market price of
the common stock on the date of the option grant. The majority
of the options granted vest ratably over a ten-year period. We
account for options under the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and,
accordingly, recognize no compensation expense for the grants.
SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,” (“SFAS No. 123”) and
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure, an amendment
of FASB Statement No. 123,”
(“SFAS No. 148”) require us to disclose the
effects on net income and diluted net income per share had we
recorded compensation expense in accordance with
SFAS No. 123. The SFAS No. 123 requirements
applied only to options granted after its effective date. If we
had used the Black-Scholes formula for valuing option grants
made after our adoption of SFAS No. 123, our net
income would have been $2.3 million, $2.7 million and
$4.3 million less than reported amounts for fiscal 2001,
2002 and 2003, respectively, and diluted net income per share
would have been $0.02 less than the reported amounts for
fiscal 2001 and 2002 and $0.03 less in
fiscal 2003. For the present, we have chosen to continue
our current method of accounting for stock options until the
FASB and/or the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) have formalized and revised requirements for
accounting for stock options. When they do, we will promptly
adopt whatever new accounting methods are required.

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities

— In January 2003,
the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities” (“FIN 46”).
FIN 46 provides guidance for the financial accounting and
reporting of interests in certain variable interest entities.
FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial
Statements,” to certain business entities that either have
equity investors with no voting rights or have equity investors
that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the
entities to support their activities. FIN 46 requires
consolidation of such entities by any company that is subject to
a majority of the risk of loss from the entities’
activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the
entities’ residual returns or both. We have chosen to fully
adopt the provisions of FIN 46 for all variable interest
entities as of September 30, 2003.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into
land and lot option purchase contracts in order to procure land
or lots for the construction of homes. Under such option
purchase contracts, we will fund a stated deposit in
consideration for the right to purchase land or lots at a future
point in time with predetermined terms. Under the terms of the
option purchase contracts, most of our option deposits are
non-refundable. Certain non-refundable deposits are deemed to
create a variable interest in a variable interest entity under
the



requirements of FIN 46. As such, certain of
our option purchase contracts result in the acquisition of a
variable interest in the entity holding the land parcel under
option.

The land sellers are not required to provide to
us the financial information of the variable interest entities.
Therefore, when our requests for financial information are
denied by the land sellers, certain assumptions about the assets
and liabilities are required. In most cases, the fair value of
the assets of the consolidated entities have been assumed to be
the contractual purchase price of the land or lots we are
buying. In these cases, the only asset the entity is assumed to
hold is the land or lots that we are buying with the related
offset being recorded as minority interest for the assumed third
party investment in the variable interest entity. Creditors, if
any, of these variable interest entities have no recourse
against us.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS —
CONSOLIDATED

We provide homebuilding services in
20 states and 47 markets through our
43 homebuilding divisions. Through our financial services
operations, we also provide mortgage banking and title agency
services in many of these same markets. On February 21,
2002, Schuler Homes, Inc. (“Schuler”) merged into
D.R. Horton, Inc. with D.R. Horton, Inc. continuing as
the surviving corporation.

Year Ended September 30, 2003 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2002

Consolidated revenues increased 29.5% to
$8,728.1 million in 2003 from $6,738.8 million in
2002, primarily due to increases in both home sales and
financial services revenues. Approximately $498.8 million
of the increase in homebuilding revenues was attributable to
fiscal 2003 revenues generated by Schuler prior to the
February 21, 2003 anniversary date of the acquisition.

Income before income taxes increased 55.7% to
$1,008.2 million in 2003 from $647.5 million in 2002.
As a percentage of revenues, income before income taxes
increased 2.0 percentage points, to 11.6%, from 9.6% in
2002. Factors contributing to that improvement were a
1.4 percentage point increase in homebuilding gross
margins, a 0.2 percentage point improvement in homebuilding
SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues and improved
operating margins in our financial services segment.

The consolidated provision for income taxes
increased 57.4% to $382.2 million in 2003, from
$242.8 million in 2002, due to the corresponding increase
in income before income taxes. The effective income tax rate for
fiscal year 2003 was 37.9%, 0.4 percentage points higher
than the 37.5% rate of fiscal 2002, due primarily to increases
in pre-tax income in states with higher tax rates.

Year Ended September 30, 2002 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2001

Consolidated revenues increased 51.2% to
$6,738.8 million in 2002 from $4,455.5 million in
2001, primarily due to increases in both home sales and
financial services revenues. The increase in home sales revenues
was attributable in part to $1,507.2 million in revenues
generated by Fortress-Florida, acquired in May 2001, Emerald
Builders, acquired in July 2001, and Schuler Homes, Inc.,
acquired in February 2002, during the periods in 2002 that were
less than one year after each was acquired.

Income before income taxes increased 58.8% to
$647.5 million in 2002 from $407.8 million in 2001. As
a percentage of revenues, income before income taxes increased
0.4 percentage points, to 9.6%, from 9.2% in 2001. Factors
contributing to that improvement were reductions in homebuilding
other expense, a 0.1 percentage point improvement in
homebuilding SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues, a
significantly improved operating margin in our financial
services segment, all offset in part by a 0.5 percentage
point decline in our homebuilding gross margins. The decline in
the homebuilding gross margin was due primarily to sales of
inventory acquired in the Schuler acquisition that had lower
gross margins as a result of purchase accounting adjustments
that increased the acquired inventory to its fair value as of
the date of the acquisition. If the acquired inventory had been
recorded at Schuler’s historical cost, rather than adjusted
to its fair value at acquisition and to conform to our inventory
accounting policies, reported homebuilding gross profit would
have been greater by approximately $61.1 million (0.9% of
homebuilding revenues).



The consolidated provision for income taxes
increased 58.8% to $242.8 million in 2002, from
$152.9 million in 2001, due to the corresponding increase
in income before income taxes. The effective income tax rate of
37.5% remained the same in both periods.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS —
HOMEBUILDING

We currently conduct our homebuilding operations
in five market regions consisting of the following markets:

Mid-Atlantic

Baltimore, Charleston, Charlotte, Columbia,
    Greensboro, Greenville, Hilton Head, Maryland-D.C., Myrtle
    Beach, New Jersey, Raleigh/ Durham and Virginia-D.C.

Midwest

Chicago and Minneapolis/ St. Paul

Southeast

Atlanta, Birmingham, Fort Myers/ Naples,
    Jacksonville, Miami/- West Palm Beach, Orlando and Tampa

Southwest

Albuquerque, Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth,
    Houston, Killeen (Texas), Phoenix, San Antonio and Tucson

West

Bend (Oregon), Colorado Springs, Denver,
    Fort Collins, Hawaii, Inland Empire (Southern California),
    Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Oakland, Orange County,
    Portland, Sacramento, Salt Lake City, San Diego,
    San Francisco, Seattle/ Tacoma and Ventura County

The following tables set forth certain operating
and financial data for the Company’s homebuilding
activities:

Homes Closed



Net New Sales Orders

Sales Backlog

Sales backlog represents homes under contract but
not yet closed at the end of the period, some of which are
subject to contingencies, including mortgage loan approval. In
the past, our backlog has been a reliable indicator of future
closings.

Year Ended September 30, 2003 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2002

Revenues from home sales increased 27.6%, to
$8,334.1 million (35,934 homes closed) in 2003 from
$6,529.6 million (29,761 homes closed) in 2002.
Revenues from home sales increased in all of our five market
regions, with percentage increases ranging from 5.0% in the
Midwest region to 41.4% in the West region. The increases in
both revenues and homes closed were due to strong housing demand
throughout the majority of our markets and the acquisition of
Schuler. Excluding the fiscal 2003 activities of Schuler prior
to the February 21, 2003 anniversary date of the
acquisition, home sales revenues increased 20.3% to
$7,856.0 million (34,410 homes closed) in 2003 from
$6,529.6 million (29,761 homes closed) in 2002. Revenues
from the sale of land and lots increased 128.0% to
$218.0 million in 2003 from $95.6 million in 2002.

The average selling price of homes we closed
during 2003 was $231,900, up 5.7% from $219,400 in 2002. The
increase in average selling price was due primarily to the
increase in homes closed in the West region, to 33.7% of total
homes closed in 2003 from 32.0% of homes closed in 2002. In the
West region, average selling prices are higher than in any of
our other market regions.

The value of net new sales orders increased
33.1%, to $9,162.3 million (38,725 homes) in 2003 from
$6,885.9 million (31,491 homes) in 2002. The value of
net new sales orders increased in all of our five market
regions, with percentage increases ranging from 11.5% in the
Mid-Atlantic to 46.3% in the West. The overall increase in the
value of net new sales orders was due to strong housing demand
throughout the majority of our markets. Excluding the fiscal
2003 activities of Schuler prior to the February 21, 2003
anniversary date of the acquisition, the value of net new sales
orders increased 22.8%, to $8,452.9 million, and the number
of net new sales orders increased 16.6%, to 36,706 homes.
The average price of a net new sales order in 2003 was



$236,600, up 8.2% over the $218,700 average
in 2002. The increase in average selling price was due primarily
to the increase in net new sales orders in the West region, to
33.1% of the total net new sales orders in 2003 from 30.9% of
net new sales orders in 2002. In the West region, average
selling prices are higher than in any of our other market
regions.

At September 30, 2003, our backlog of sales
orders was $3,653.4 million (15,488 homes), up 29.3%
from $2,825.2 million (12,697 homes) at
September 30, 2002. The average sales price of homes in
backlog was $235,900 at September 30, 2003, up 6.0% from
the $222,500 average at September 30, 2002. As with
the average selling prices of homes closed and sold, the
increase in the average selling price of homes in backlog was
primarily due to the effect of the increase in homes sold in the
West region, which has the highest average sales price of all of
our market regions.

Cost of sales increased by 26.9%, to
$6,805.8 million in 2003 from $5,364.4 million in
2002. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable
to the increase in revenues. Cost of home sales as a percentage
of home sales revenues decreased 1.5 percentage points, to
79.4% in 2003, from 80.9% in 2002. Most of the costs associated
with the sales of inventory acquired in the Schuler acquisition,
with lower gross margins as a result of purchase accounting
adjustments that increased the acquired inventory to its fair
value as of the date of acquisition, was recognized in 2002.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expenses from homebuilding activities increased by 26.3%, to
$817.1 million in 2003 from $646.8 million in 2002. As
a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses decreased to 9.6% in
2003 from 9.8% in 2002. The 0.2 percentage point decline in
SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues was primarily due
to the increased leverage of fixed SG&A expenses achieved by
the increase in homebuilding revenues.

Interest expense associated with homebuilding
activities decreased to $5.2 million in 2003 from
$6.0 million in 2002. Due to the declining interest rate
environment experienced in 2003, our total interest costs as a
percentage of average interest-bearing debt declined. Also,
throughout 2003, inventory under construction or development
grew at a more rapid pace than interest-bearing debt. Therefore,
a larger proportion of total interest incurred was capitalized
to inventory than in 2002. We follow a policy of capitalizing
interest only on inventory under construction or development.
During both years, we expensed the portion of incurred interest
and other financing costs which could not be charged to
inventory. Capitalized interest and other financing costs are
included in cost of sales at the time homes are closed.

Other expense associated with homebuilding
activities was $9.4 million in 2003, compared to
$16.9 million in 2002. The expense in 2003 is primarily due
to a $4.2 million write-down to estimated fair value of the
carrying amounts of our investments in start-up and emerging
growth companies and $11.8 million of minority interests in
the income of our consolidated joint ventures. The expense was
offset in part by $3.6 million in interest income and a
$1.8 million increase in the fair value of our interest
rate swaps. The expense in 2002 was primarily due to a
$12.3 million decline in the fair value of our interest
rate swaps and a $6.6 million write-down to estimated fair
value of the carrying amounts of our investments in start-up and
emerging growth companies.

Year Ended September 30, 2002 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2001

Revenues from home sales increased 52.2%, to
$6,529.6 million (29,761 homes closed) in 2002 from
$4,289.8 million (21,371 homes closed) in 2001. Revenues
from home sales increased in all of our five market regions,
with percentage increases ranging from 3.0% in the Mid-Atlantic
region to 125.8% in the West region. The increases in both
revenues and homes closed were due to strong housing demand
throughout the majority of our markets, an increase in the
average selling price of homes closed, and the increases
attributable to the acquisition of Fortress-Florida in
May 2001, Emerald Builders in July 2001, and Schuler
Homes, Inc. in February 2002. In markets where we operated
throughout both twelve-month periods, home sales revenues
increased by 17.4%, to $5,022.4 million (24,478 homes
closed) in 2002 from $4,279.3 million (21,328 homes closed)
in 2001.



The average selling price of homes closed during
2002 was $219,400, up 9.3% from $200,700 in 2001. The increase
in average selling price was primarily due to the higher average
selling price ($334,400) of the 3,662 homes closed by the former
Schuler divisions, which operate in the western part of the
United States with higher prevailing home prices. Excluding
Schuler closings, the average selling price of homes we closed
was $203,300, up 1.3% from 2001.

The value of net new sales orders increased
52.9%, to $6,885.9 million (31,491 homes) in 2002 from
$4,502.6 million (22,179 homes) in 2001. The value of
net new sales orders increased in four of our five market
regions, with percentage increases ranging from 16.2% in the
Southeast to 117.9% in the West. The value of net new sales
orders declined 3.5% in the Midwest. Although our two primary
markets in the Midwest (Chicago and Minneapolis/ St. Paul)
remained strong, we ceased operations in Cincinnati, Louisville
and St. Louis in 2002, which contributed to the slight
decline in net new sales orders in that region. The overall
increase in the value of net new sales orders was due to strong
housing demand throughout the majority of our markets, as well
as sales achieved by Fortress-Florida, Emerald Builders and
Schuler Homes. In markets where we operated throughout both
fiscal years, the value of net new sales orders increased 18.9%,
to $5,343.5 million, and the number of net new sales orders
increased 16.3%, to 25,762 homes. The average price of a net new
sales order in 2002 was $218,700, up 7.7% over the $203,000
average in 2001. The increase in average selling price was
primarily due to the higher average selling price ($327,100) of
the 3,666 net new sales orders by the former Schuler
divisions, which operate in the western part of the United
States with higher prevailing home prices. Excluding the Schuler
net new sales orders, our average selling price of net new sales
orders in 2002 was $204,400, up 0.7% from 2001.

At September 30, 2002, our backlog of sales
orders was $2,825.2 million (12,697 homes), up 46.1% from
$1,933.8 million (9,263 homes) at September 30, 2001.
In markets where we operated at the end of both fiscal years,
our backlog of sales orders increased 20.7%, to
$2,333.7 million (11,070 homes). The average sales price of
homes in backlog was $222,500 at September 30, 2002, up
6.6% from the $208,800 average at September 30, 2001. As
with the average selling prices of homes closed and sold, the
increase in the average selling price of homes in backlog was
primarily due to the effect of homes in the backlogs of the
former Schuler divisions, which operate in the western part of
the United States with higher prevailing home prices. Excluding
the Schuler amounts, the average price of homes in backlog was
$210,800, up 1.0% from 2001.

Cost of sales increased by 52.1%, to
$5,364.4 million in 2002 from $3,527.1 million in
2001. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable
to the increase in revenues. Cost of home sales as a percentage
of home sales revenues increased 0.5 percentage points, to
80.9% in 2002, from 80.4% in 2001. The benefits we achieved in
2002 from our continuing ability to raise prices in selected
markets and reduce costs through our national purchasing program
were offset by sales of inventory acquired in the Schuler
acquisition that had lower gross margins as a result of purchase
accounting adjustments that increased the acquired inventory to
its fair value as of the date of the acquisition. If the
acquired inventory had been recorded at Schuler’s
historical cost, rather than adjusted to its fair value at
acquisition and to conform to our inventory accounting policies,
reported gross profit from home sales would have been greater by
approximately $54.0 million (0.8% of home sales revenues).
All of the significant purchase accounting adjustments
associated with the Schuler acquisition were recorded in 2002.
For essentially the same reasons, total homebuilding cost of
sales was 81.0% of total homebuilding revenue, up
0.6 percentage points from 80.4% in 2001.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expenses from homebuilding activities increased by 49.7%, to
$646.8 million in 2002 from $432.0 million in 2001. As
a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses decreased to 9.8% in
2002 from 9.9% in 2001. The 0.1 percentage point decline in
SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues was primarily due
to the increased leverage of fixed SG&A expenses achieved by
the increases in homebuilding revenues.

Interest expense associated with homebuilding
activities decreased to $6.0 million in 2002 from
$8.8 million in 2001. As a percentage of homebuilding
revenues, homebuilding interest expense decreased to 0.1% in
2002 from 0.2% in 2001. Due to the declining interest rate
environment experienced in 2002, our total interest costs as a
percentage of average interest-bearing debt declined. Also,
throughout 2002, inventory under construction or development
grew at a more rapid pace than interest-bearing debt. Therefore,
a larger



proportion of total interest incurred was
capitalized to inventory than in 2001. We follow a policy of
capitalizing interest only on inventory under construction or
development. During both years, we expensed the portion of
incurred interest and other financing costs which could not be
charged to inventory. Capitalized interest and other financing
costs are included in cost of sales at the time homes are closed.

Other expense associated with homebuilding
activities was $16.9 million in 2002, as compared to
$34.7 million in 2001. The expense in 2002 is primarily due
to a $12.3 million decline in the fair value of our
interest rate swaps and a $6.6 million write-down to
estimated fair value of the carrying amounts of our investments
in start-up and emerging growth companies. The expense in 2001
was primarily due to a $13.8 million decline in the fair
value of our interest rate swaps and a $22.9 million
write-down of the carrying amounts of our investments in
start-up and emerging growth companies.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — FINANCIAL
SERVICES

Financial services include mortgage financing and
title insurance agency and closing services, primarily related
to purchases of homes we build and sell. Mortgage services are
provided in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia,
Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, North
Carolina, Oregon, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and
Washington. Title agency and closing services are provided in
Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey,
Texas and Virginia. The following table summarizes financial and
other information for the Company’s financial services
operations:

Year Ended September 30, 2003 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2002

Revenues from the financial services segment
increased 54.9%, to $176.0 million in 2003 from
$113.6 million in 2002. The increase in financial services
revenues was primarily due to the increase in homes closed and
the continued expansion of our mortgage loan and title services
provided to customers of our homebuilding segment. General and
administrative expenses associated with financial services
increased 45.0%, to $98.3 million in 2003 from
$67.8 million in 2002. As a percentage of financial
services revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased
by 3.8 percentage points to 55.9% in 2003 from 59.7% in
2002, due primarily to efficiencies realized with the increase
in revenues generated from the increase in homes closed.

Year Ended September 30, 2002 Compared
    to Year Ended September 30, 2001

Revenues from the financial services segment
increased 57.8%, to $113.6 million in 2002 from
$72.0 million in 2001. The increase in financial services
revenues was due to the rapid expansion of our



mortgage loan and title services provided to
customers of our homebuilding segment and the effects of the
Fortress-Florida and Emerald Builders acquisitions. General and
administrative expenses associated with financial services
increased 43.0%, to $67.8 million in 2002 from
$47.4 million in 2001. As a percentage of financial
services revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased
by 6.2 percentage points to 59.7% in 2002 from 65.9% in
2001, due primarily to efficiencies realized with the increase
in revenues generated in markets we entered in 2001.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES

At September 30, 2003, we had available cash
and cash equivalents of $582.9 million. Inventories
(including finished homes, construction in progress, and
developed residential lots and other land) at September 30,
2003, had increased by $739.2 million from
September 30, 2002, due to a general increase in business
activity, the expansion of operations in our market areas and
the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” The
consolidation of these entities added $105.0 million in
land inventory not owned to the Company’s balance sheet as
of September 30, 2003. The inventory increase was financed
largely by retaining earnings and by issuing senior notes. Our
revolving credit facility had no amounts outstanding at
September 30, 2003 and 2002. Our ratio of homebuilding
notes payable (net of cash) to total capital at
September 30, 2003 improved 11.3 percentage points, to
40.0% from 51.3% at September 30, 2002. The
stockholders’ equity to total assets ratio increased
3.9 percentage points, to 41.6% at September 30, 2003,
from 37.7% at September 30, 2002.

We have an $805 million, unsecured revolving
credit facility, including $250 million which may be used
for letters of credit. The facility matures in January 2006, and
is guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries other than those that make up our financial
services segment. At September 30, 2003, we had outstanding
homebuilding debt of $2,565.1 million. Under the debt
covenants associated with the revolving credit facility, our
additional homebuilding borrowing capacity under it is limited
to the lesser of the unused portion of the facility,
$709.1 million at September 30, 2003, or an amount
determined under a borrowing base arrangement. Under the
borrowing base limitation, the sum of our senior debt and the
amount drawn on our revolving credit facility may not exceed
certain percentages of the various categories of our inventory.
At September 30, 2003, the borrowing base arrangement would
have limited our additional borrowing capacity from any source
to $1,644.8 million. At September 30, 2003, we were in
compliance with all of the covenants, limitations and
restrictions that form a part of our public debt obligations and
our bank revolving credit facility. We have entered into
multi-year interest rate swap agreements, aggregating a notional
amount of $200 million, that have the effect of fixing the
interest rate on a portion of the variable rate revolving credit
facility at 5.1%.

On December 3, 2002, we issued
$215 million of 7 1/2% senior notes due 2007. The
net proceeds from this offering were used to repay borrowings
under the unsecured revolving credit facility. These notes are
guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries
other than our financial services subsidiaries.

On April 17, 2003, we issued
$200 million of 6 7/8% senior notes due 2013. The
majority of the net proceeds from this offering was used to
redeem the approximately $148.5 million aggregate principal
amount outstanding of our 10% senior notes due 2006, which
we called for full redemption on April 18, 2003 and
redeemed on May 23, 2003, at a redemption price of 100% of
the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest
thereon to the redemption date. The aggregate redemption price,
including accrued interest, amounted to $150.1 million.
Concurrent with the redemption, we recorded interest expense of
approximately $1.3 million, representing unamortized
discount and unamortized debt issuance costs associated with the
redeemed notes. The 6 7/8% senior notes due 2013 are
guaranteed by substantially all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries
other than our financial services subsidiaries.

On May 27, 2003, we called our zero coupon
convertible senior notes due 2021 for redemption. The aggregate
accreted value of the notes on the date of the call was
$213.6 million. The call for redemption gave the note
holders the right to convert their notes into shares of our
common stock or to redeem them for their cash accreted value on
the redemption date. All of the notes were presented to us by
June 26, 2003, for



conversion into D.R. Horton common stock, and
accordingly we issued approximately 10 million shares in
exchange for the notes.

On June 18, 2003, we issued
$100 million of 5 7/8% senior notes due 2013. The
net proceeds from this offering were used to redeem the
$100 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our
9% senior notes due 2008, which we called for full
redemption on June 25, 2003 and redeemed on July 25,
2003, at a redemption price of 104.5% of the principal amount,
together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the
redemption date. The aggregate redemption price, including
accrued interest, amounted to $107.0 million. Concurrent
with the redemption, we recorded interest expense of
approximately $2.5 million, representing the difference
between the redemption premium and the unamortized premium
associated with the redeemed notes. The 5 7/8% senior
notes due 2013 are guaranteed by substantially all of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries other than our financial services
subsidiaries.

During fiscal 2003, we repurchased
2,652,800 shares of our common stock in open market
transactions at an aggregate purchase price of
$58.9 million. On July 31, 2003, our board of
directors increased the authorizations for repurchases of our
common stock and of our outstanding debt securities to
$200 million each. At September 30, 2003,
$175.6 million remained of the stock repurchase
authorization and $200 million remained of the debt
securities repurchase authorization.

We examine the carrying value of our excess cost
over net assets acquired (goodwill) annually to determine
whether there are any impairment losses. Impairment is
determined to exist when the implied fair value of goodwill is
less than its carrying value. Our consolidated goodwill amounted
to $578.9 million (homebuilding) and $1.2 million
(financial services) at September 30, 2003. We performed
the required tests during the last two fiscal years and
determined that no goodwill or other intangible asset
impairments existed.

At September 30, 2003, our financial
services segment had mortgage loans held for sale of
$485.5 million and loan commitments for $458.7 million
at fixed rates. We hedge the interest rate risk on these
mortgage loans and mortgage loan commitments through the use of
best-efforts whole loan delivery commitments, forward sales of
mortgage-backed securities and the infrequent purchase of
options on financial instruments. Changes in the value of the
derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings, as
are the changes in the value of the funded loans. Such gains and
losses have not significantly affected our financial services
results of operations.

Currently, our wholly-owned mortgage company has
a mortgage warehouse loan facility in the amount of
$230 million which matures on February 12, 2004, and
which is secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale. The
mortgage warehouse facility is not guaranteed by either the
parent company or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee our
homebuilding debt, and is expected to be renewed prior to
maturity in the ordinary course of business. At
September 30, 2003, $148.0 million had been drawn
under the mortgage warehouse facility. Our wholly-owned mortgage
company completed a $100 million mortgage-backed commercial
paper conduit facility (the “CP conduit facility”) in
July 2002. The CP conduit facility was increased to
$300 million on July 25, 2003. Although the current
agreement governing the CP conduit facility expires on
June 29, 2006, maintenance of the facility beyond the first
(and subsequent) anniversary date(s) must be annually approved
by the sponsoring bank. The CP conduit facility is also secured
by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by
either the parent company or any of the subsidiaries that
guarantee our homebuilding debt. As of September 30, 2003,
$250.0 million had been drawn under the CP conduit
facility. The mortgage loans pledged to secure the CP conduit
facility are used as collateral for mortgage-backed securities
sold in the secondary commercial paper markets at rates that are
more attractive than those applicable to the mortgage warehouse
facility. All mortgage company activities are financed with the
mortgage warehouse facility, the CP conduit facility or
internally generated funds. Both of the financial services’
credit facilities contain financial covenants with which we are
in compliance.

Our historical strategy of internal growth and
growth by acquisitions has required significant amounts of cash.
If we are to achieve our future growth targets, we expect that
those cash requirements will continue. We anticipate that future
home construction, lot and land purchases and any acquisitions
will be funded through internally generated funds, existing and
future credit facilities and the issuance of new debt or equity
securities. At September 30, 2003, under currently
effective shelf registration statements, we had approxi-



mately 15 million shares of common stock
issuable to effect, in whole or in part, possible future
acquisitions and the capacity to issue new debt or equity
securities amounting to $485 million.

In the future, we intend to continue to maintain
effective shelf registration statements that will facilitate
access to the capital markets. We believe that our current cash
position, our cash generation capabilities, the amounts
available under our revolving line of credit agreements and our
ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner with
our existing shelf registration statements are adequate to meet
our cash needs for the foreseeable future.

During fiscal 2003, our Board of Directors
declared one quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per common
share and three quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per
common share, the last of which was paid on August 22, 2003
to stockholders of record on August 8, 2003. On
October 9, 2003 our Board of Directors declared a cash
dividend of $0.07 per common share which was paid on
October 31, 2003 to stockholders of record on
October 20, 2003.

On December 1, 2003, our Board of Directors
declared a three-for-two common stock split (to be effected as a
50% stock dividend) which will be payable on January 12,
2004 to holders of record on December 22, 2003. Cash will
be paid in lieu of fractional shares.

Except for ordinary expenditures for the
construction of homes, the acquisition of land and lots for
development and sale of homes, at September 30, 2003, we
had no material commitments for capital expenditures.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into
land and lot option purchase contracts in order to procure land
or lots for the construction of homes. Lot option contracts
enable us to control significant lot positions with a minimal
capital investment and substantially reduces the risks
associated with land ownership and development. At
September 30, 2003, we had $128.6 million in deposits
to purchase land and lots with a total purchase price of
$2.4 billion. Only $52.0 million of the
$2.4 billion in land and lot option purchase contracts
contain specific performance clauses which require us to
purchase the land or lots. Pursuant to FIN 46, we
consolidated certain variable interest entities with assets of
$105.0 million.

At September 30, 2003, we had outstanding
letters of credit of $118.6 million and performance bonds
of $1,147.1 million, issued by third parties, to secure
performance under various contracts. We expect that the
obligations secured by these letters of credit and performance
bonds will generally be performed in the ordinary course of
business and in accordance with the applicable contractual
terms. To the extent that the obligations are performed, the
related letters of credit and performance bonds will be released
and we will not have any continuing obligations. We have no
material third-party guarantees.

INFLATION

We and the homebuilding industry in general may
be adversely affected during periods of high inflation,
primarily because of higher land and construction costs.
Inflation also increases our financing, labor and material
costs. In addition, higher mortgage interest rates significantly
affect the affordability of permanent mortgage financing to
prospective homebuyers. We attempt to pass through to our
customers any increases in our costs through increased sales
prices and, to date, inflation has not had a material adverse
effect on our results of operations. However, there is no
assurance that inflation will not have a material adverse impact
on our future results of operations.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

Certain statements contained in this report, as
well as in other materials we have filed or will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, statements made by us in
periodic press releases and oral statements we make to analysts,
stockholders and the press in the course of presentations about
us, may be construed as “forward-looking statements”
as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These forward-looking statements typically include the
words “anticipate,” “believe,”
“expect,” “estimate,” “pro-



ject” and “future.” Any or all of
the forward-looking statements included in this report and in
any other of our reports or public statements may turn out to be
inaccurate due to known or unknown risks and uncertainties. As a
result, actual results may differ materially from the results
discussed in and anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
The following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties
relevant to our business includes factors we believe could
adversely affect us. Other factors beyond those listed below
could also adversely affect us.



activity, we will be able to successfully
    identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions in the
    future. Moreover, we may not be able to implement successfully
    our operating and growth strategies within our existing markets.

We undertake no obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. However, any further
disclosures made on related subjects in subsequent reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
    MARKET RISK

We are subject to interest rate risk on our long
term debt. We monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates
and utilize both fixed and variable rate debt. For fixed rate
debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the value of
the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows.
Conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates
generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument,
but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. We have
mitigated our exposure to changes in interest rates on our
variable rate bank debt by entering into interest rate swap
agreements to obtain a fixed interest rate for a portion of the
variable rate borrowings. We generally do not have an obligation
to prepay fixed-rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result,
interest rate risk and changes in fair value would not have a
significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until such time as we
are required to refinance, repurchase or repay such debt.

Our interest rate swaps were not designated as
hedges under SFAS No. 133 when it was adopted on
October 1, 2000. We are exposed to market risk associated
with changes in the fair values of the swaps, and such changes
must be reflected in our income statements.

Our mortgage company is exposed to interest rate
risk associated with its mortgage loan origination services.
Interest rate lock commitments (IRLC’s) are extended to
borrowers who have applied for loan funding and who meet certain
defined credit and underwriting criteria. Typically, the
IRLC’s will have a duration of less than six months. Some
IRLC’s are committed immediately to a specific investor
through the use of best-efforts whole loan delivery commitments,
while the majority of IRLC’s are funded prior to being
committed to third-party investors. Forward sales of
mortgage-backed securities (“FMBS”) are used to
protect uncommitted IRLC’s against the risk of changes in
interest rates. FMBS related to IRLC’s are classified and
accounted for as non-designated derivative instruments, with
gains and losses recorded in current earnings. FMBS related to
funded, uncommitted loans are designated as fair value hedges,
with changes in the value of the derivative instruments
recognized in current earnings, along with changes in the value
of the funded, uncommitted loans. The effectiveness of the fair
value hedges is continuously monitored and any ineffectiveness,
which for the years ended September 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003
was not significant, is recognized in current earnings. At
September 30, 2003, total FMBS to mitigate interest rate
risk related to uncommitted mortgage loans held for sale and
uncommitted IRLC’s totaled approximately
$216.0 million, the duration of which was less than six
months. At September 30, 2003, the fair value of the FMBS
and IRLC’s was approximately $26,000.

The following table sets forth, as of
September 30, 2003, for our debt obligations, principal
cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted average interest
rates and estimated fair market value. In addition, the table
sets



forth the notional amounts, weighted average
interest rates and estimated fair market value of our interest
rate swaps.



INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors

D.R. Horton, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2003. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of D.R. Horton, Inc. and
subsidiaries at September 30, 2003 and 2002, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

Fort Worth, Texas

November 7, 2003



ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA

D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

NOTE A—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES

Business:

D. R.
Horton, Inc. (the Company) is a national builder that is engaged
primarily in the construction and sale of single-family housing
in 47 markets and 20 states in the United States. The
Company designs, builds and sells single-family houses on lots
developed by the Company and on finished lots which it
purchases, ready for home construction. Periodically, the
Company sells land and lots it has developed or bought. The
Company also provides title agency and mortgage brokerage
services to its homebuyers. The Company does not retain or
service the mortgages that it originates but, rather, sells the
mortgages and related servicing rights to investors.

Principles of
consolidation:

The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its
wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, as well as certain
variable interest entities required to be consolidated pursuant
to Interpretation No. 46 issued by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”). Intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Accounting
principles:

The preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
materially from those estimates.

Cash and cash
equivalents:

The Company considers all
highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of three
months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Amounts in
transit from title companies for home closings are included in
cash.

Cost of sales:

Cost
of sales includes home warranty costs, purchased discounts for
customer financing, and sales commissions paid to third parties.

Excess of cost over net assets
acquired:

In June 2001, the FASB
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 141, “Business
Combinations”, and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets”. Under Statement No. 142,
goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives
are no longer amortized but are subject to annual impairment
tests. Other intangible assets continue to be amortized over
their useful lives. The Company early-adopted the new rules on
accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets beginning
October 1, 2001. Potential impairments of intangible assets
are reviewed annually or when events and circumstances warrant
an earlier review. Impairment is determined to exist when the
estimated fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying
value. The Company performed the required impairment tests
during fiscal 2002 and 2003 and determined that no goodwill
impairment existed. The following summarizes the pro forma
impact of the non-amortization approach for fiscal 2001 as if
these Statements had been adopted on October 1, 2000. The
net income per share amounts presented below for 2001 have been
restated to reflect the effects of the three-for-two stock split
(effected as a 50% dividend) of April 2002 (in thousands, except
per share data).

Additional consideration paid in subsequent
periods under the terms of purchase agreements are included as
acquisition costs.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Expense related to amortization of goodwill and
other intangible assets was $9.6 million in fiscal 2001.
Amortization of other intangible assets was $0.9 million
and $1.2 million in fiscal 2002 and 2003, respectively.
Accumulated amortization related to goodwill was
$38.9 million at September 30, 2002 and 2003.
Accumulated amortization of other intangible assets was
$0.9 million and $2.1 million at September 30,
2002 and 2003, respectively.

Interest:

The
Company capitalizes interest during development and
construction. Capitalized interest is charged to cost of sales
as the related inventory is delivered to the home buyer.
Interest costs are (in thousands):

Inventories:

Finished inventories are stated at the lower of accumulated cost
or fair value less costs to sell. Inventories under development
or held for development are stated at accumulated costs, unless
such costs would not be recovered from the cash flows generated
by future disposition. In this instance, such inventories are
measured at fair value, less costs of disposal.

Inventories include related interest and property
taxes which are capitalized in inventory during the development
and construction periods. Residential lots are transferred to
construction in progress when building permits are requested.
Land and development costs are allocated to individual lots on a
pro-rata basis. Sold units are expensed on a specific
identification basis as cost of sales. All indirect overhead
costs, such as construction superintendents’ compensation,
advertising and builder’s risk insurance are either charged
to SG&A expense as incurred or, in the case of
builder’s risk insurance, amortized to SG&A expense
over the applicable policy periods.

Minority interests:

Through acquisitions, the Company has assumed several joint
venture arrangements on land projects whereby the Company is
entitled to a percentage of the profits and/or losses. The
Company has a controlling interest in these joint ventures.
Therefore, their financial position and results of operations
are consolidated for financial statement purposes and the
partners’ equity positions are disclosed as minority
interests. Also included in minority interests is the estimated
fair value of all third-party interests in our consolidated
variable interest entities, which are described later in this
note.

Property and
equipment:

Property and equipment,
including model home furniture, is stated at cost. Major
renewals and improvements are capitalized. Repairs and
maintenance are expensed as incurred. Depreciation generally is
provided using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful life of the asset. Depreciable lives for model home
furniture typically range from 2 to 3 years; depreciable lives
for buildings and improvements typically range from 5 to
20 years; depreciable lives for office furniture and
equipment typically range from 2 to 5 years. Accumulated
depreciation was $71.8 million and $90.2 million as of
September 30, 2002 and 2003, respectively. Depreciation
expense was $21.6 million, $30.4 million and
$38.3 million in fiscal 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

Revenue recognition:

Homebuilding revenue is recognized at the time of the closing of
a sale, when title to and possession of the property transfer to
the buyer. Financial services revenues associated with the
Company’s title operations are recognized as homes are
closed, closing services are rendered and title



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

insurance policies are issued, all of which
generally occur simultaneously as each home is closed. The
majority of the revenues associated with mortgage loan
operations is recognized when the mortgage loans and related
servicing rights are sold to third-party investors. Mortgage
loan origination fees are earned when the loans associated with
the homes financed are closed and funded. Earned origination
fees, net of direct origination costs, are deferred and
recognized as revenues, along with the associated gains or
losses on the sales of the loans and related servicing rights,
when the loans are sold to third-party investors.

Advertising cost:

The Company expenses advertising costs as they are incurred.
Advertising expense was approximately $28.9 million,
$46.7 million and $59.3 million in fiscal 2001, 2002
and 2003, respectively.

Earnings per share:

Basic earnings per share is based upon the weighted average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during each year.

Diluted earnings per share is based upon the
weighted average number of shares of common stock and dilutive
securities outstanding.

The following table sets forth the weighted
average number of shares of common stock and dilutive securities
outstanding used in the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share (in thousands):

In March 2002, the Company’s Board of
Directors declared a three-for-two common stock split (effected
as a 50% stock dividend), payable on April 9, 2002 to
stockholders of record on March 26, 2002. The split was
accounted for by transferring the $.01 par value of the
48,749,353 shares issued to effect it from additional
capital to common stock. The average share amounts presented
above for 2001 have been restated to reflect the effects of the
three-for-two stock split.

On February 5, 2002, each of the
Company’s 381,113 Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes
outstanding first became eligible for conversion into
26.2391 shares of the Company’s common stock. These
Convertible Senior Notes were convertible on any date as of
which the average closing price of the Company’s common
stock for the twenty preceding trading days exceeded the
specified threshold of 110% of the accreted value of each note,
divided by the conversion rate. The twenty-day average closing
price of the Company’s common stock exceeded the specified
threshold at the end of the March 31, 2002 and
June 30, 2002 quarters



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

and for a portion of the quarter ended
June 30, 2003, which had the effect of increasing the
denominator for diluted earnings per share. Also, the numerator
for diluted earnings per share was increased by tax-effected
interest expense and amortization of issuance costs associated
with the Convertible Senior Notes for the March 31, 2002,
June 30, 2002 and June 30, 2003 quarters. On
May 27, 2003, we called the zero coupon convertible senior
notes for redemption. The call for redemption gave the note
holders the right to convert their notes into shares of our
common stock or to redeem them for cash at their accreted value
as of the redemption date. All of the notes were presented by
June 26, 2003, for conversion into D.R. Horton common
stock, and accordingly we issued approximately 10 million
shares of common stock in exchange for the notes, whose total
accreted value as of the conversion dates was approximately
$214.1 million.

Options to purchase 2.7 million shares of
common stock at various prices were outstanding during fiscal
2002 but were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than
the average market price of the common shares and, therefore,
their effect would be antidilutive. All options outstanding
during fiscal 2001 and 2003 were included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share.

Segment information:

The Company’s financial reporting segments consist of
homebuilding and financial services. The Company’s
homebuilding operations comprise the most substantial part of
its business, with approximately 98% of consolidated revenues in
fiscal 2001, 2002 and 2003. The homebuilding reporting segment
is comprised of the aggregate of the Company’s regional
homebuilding operating segments and generates the majority of
its revenues from the sale of completed homes, with a lesser
amount from the sale of land and lots. Approximately 91% of home
sales revenues were generated from the sale of single-family
detached homes in fiscal 2003. The financial services segment
generates its revenues from originating and selling mortgages
and collecting fees for title insurance agency and closing
services. Expenditures for long-lived assets and depreciation
and amortization related to the financial services segment for
the years ended September 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003 were not
significant.

Effective with its fiscal year beginning
October 1, 2002, the Company’s wholly-owned mortgage
subsidiary is required by Statement of Position 01-6
(“SOP 01-6”), of the Accounting Standards
Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants, to disclose the minimum net worth
requirements by regulatory agencies, secondary market investors
and states in which it conducts business. Currently, the largest
of these minimum net worth requirements is $1.0 million,
which is insignificant compared to the $35 million minimum
net worth required by the mortgage subsidiary’s warehouse
credit line. At September 30, 2002 and 2003, the mortgage
subsidiary’s net worth was $54.0 million and
$97.3 million, respectively.

The accounting policies of the reporting segments
are described throughout this note. Assets, revenues and
operating income of the Company’s reporting segments are
included in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of income.

Long-lived assets:

Potential impairments of long-lived assets are reviewed annually
or when events and circumstances warrant an earlier review. In
accordance with SFAS No. 144, impairment is determined
when estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with an
asset are less than the asset’s carrying value.

Stock-based
compensation:

The Company may, with
the approval of the Compensation Committee of its Board of
Directors, grant stock options for a fixed number of shares to
employees. The Company accounts for stock option grants in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”)
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees”. The Company adopted the disclosure-only
provisions as specified by the SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”
(“SFAS No. 123”), as amended by
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure”
(“SFAS No. 148”). The exercise price of the
Company’s employee stock options equals the market price of
the underlying stock on the date of grant, and therefore no
compensation expense is recognized for the initial



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

grant. SFAS No. 123 and
SFAS No. 148 require disclosure of pro forma income
and pro forma income per share as if the fair value based method
had been applied in measuring compensation expense for fiscal
2001, 2002 and 2003 for options granted after fiscal 1995.

The following table sets forth the effect on net
income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method
had been applied (in thousands, except per share data):

The per share amounts for 2001 have been adjusted
as applicable for the three-for-two stock split of April 9,
2002.

Interest rate swaps:

The Company entered into two ten-year interest rate swap
agreements in 1998 with a major United States bank under which
it receives each quarter the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) and pays a fixed amount that averages 5.1% on
a total notional amount of $200 million. At the end of each
quarter, the swaps’ market value will have changed
depending upon the market’s current anticipation of
quarterly LIBOR rate levels from the present until the
swaps’ maturity in 2008. The swaps’ market values
generally vary directly with changes in anticipated future LIBOR
rates. Because the Company was unwilling to “buy out”
the bank’s current right to cancel each swap during any
quarter in which LIBOR exceeds 7%, it chose not to designate the
swaps as cash-flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, which
was adopted on October 1, 2000. Changes in the swaps’
fair value must be recorded in the consolidated statements of
income. Accordingly, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of
a change in accounting principle amounting to $2.1 million,
net of income taxes of $1.3 million, as an adjustment to
net income in 2001. The fair values of the Company’s
interest rate swaps were $20.8 million at
September 30, 2003 and $22.6 million at
September 30, 2002, and are recorded in homebuilding other
liabilities, and the changes in their fair values are recorded
in homebuilding other expense.

Mortgage loans:

Mortgage loans held for sale consist primarily of single-family
residential loans collateralized by the underlying property.
Loans that have been closed but not committed to a third-party
investor are matched with forward sales of mortgage backed
securities (“FMBS”) that are designated as fair value
hedges. Hedged loans are typically committed to third-party
investors within three days of origination. All loans held for
sale are carried at cost adjusted for changes in fair value
after the date of designation of an effective hedge, based on
either sale commitments or current market quotes. Any gain or
loss on the sale of loans is recognized at the time of sale. As
of September 30, 2003, the Company had $30.0 million
in loans not committed to third-party investors which were
hedged with $29.0 million of FMBS. During the years ended
September 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the Company had net
gains on sales of loans of $32.4 million,
$55.0 million, and $91.5 million, respectively.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The forward sales of mortgage-backed securities
associated with uncommitted, funded loans are designated as fair
value hedges of the risk of changes in the overall fair value of
the related loans. Accordingly, changes in the value of the
derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings, as
are changes in the value of the loans. During the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the Company’s
net gains related to the ineffective portion of its fair value
hedging instruments were not material. The net gains are
included in financial services revenues.

Loan commitments:

To
meet the financing needs of its customers, the Company is party
to interest rate lock commitments (“IRLC’s”)
which are extended to borrowers who have applied for loan
funding and meet certain defined credit and underwriting
criteria. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 and related
Derivatives Implementation Group conclusions, the Company
classifies and accounts for IRLC’s as non-designated
derivative instruments at fair value with gains and losses
recorded to current earnings. At September 30, 2002 and
2003, the Company’s IRLC’s totaled $279.3 million
and $458.7 million, respectively.

The Company manages interest rate risk related to
its IRLC’s through the use of best-efforts whole loan
delivery commitments, forward sales of mortgage-backed
securities and the infrequent purchase of options on financial
instruments. These instruments are considered non-designated
derivatives and are accounted for at fair market value with
gains and losses recorded to current earnings. As of
September 30, 2003, the Company had approximately
$187.0 million outstanding of FMBS and $252.0 million
of best efforts whole loan delivery commitments related to its
IRLC’s.

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities:

In January 2003, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities” (“FIN 46”).
FIN 46 provides guidance for the financial accounting and
reporting of interests in certain variable interest entities.
FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial
Statements,” to certain business entities that either have
equity investors with no voting rights or have equity investors
that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the
entities to support their activities. FIN 46 requires
consolidation of such entities by any company that is subject to
a majority of the risk of loss from the entities’
activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the
entities’ residual returns or both. The requirements of
FIN 46 are currently effective for all interests in
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003,
and will be effective for all interests in variable interest
entities created before February 1, 2003 in the first
fiscal year or interim period beginning after December 15,
2003. The Company chose to fully adopt the provisions of
FIN 46 for all variable interest entities as of
September 30, 2003.

In the ordinary course of its business, the
Company enters into land and lot option purchase contracts in
order to procure land or lots for the construction of homes.
Under such option purchase contracts, the Company will fund a
stated deposit in consideration for the right to purchase land
or lots at a future point in time with predetermined terms.
Under the terms of the option purchase contracts, most of the
Company’s option deposits are non-refundable. Certain
non-refundable deposits are deemed to create a variable interest
in a variable interest entity under the requirements of
FIN 46. As such, certain of the Company’s option
purchase contracts result in the acquisition of a variable
interest in the entity holding the land parcel under option.

The Company has evaluated all of its interests in
variable interest entities at September 30, 2003 and has
consolidated the fair value of certain variable interest
entities from which the Company is purchasing land or lots under
option contracts. The land sellers are not required to provide
the Company the financial information of the variable interest
entities. Therefore, when the Company’s requests for
financial information are denied by the land sellers, certain
assumptions about the assets and liabilities are required. In
most cases, the fair value of the assets of the consolidated
entities have been assumed to be the contractual purchase price
of the land or lots the Company is purchasing. In these cases,
the only asset recorded is the land or lots the Company is
buying with a related offset to minority interest for the
assumed third party investment in the variable interest entity.
The consolidation of these entities added $105.0 million in
land inventory not owned and



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

minority interests to the Company’s balance
sheet at September 30, 2003. The Company’s obligations
related to these land or lot option contracts are guaranteed by
cash deposits totaling $13.9 million, performance letters
of credit totaling $17.3 million and promissory notes
totaling $0.3 million. Creditors, if any, of these variable
interest entities have no recourse against the Company.
Including the deposits with the variable interest entities
above, the Company has deposits amounting to $152.7 million
to purchase land and lots with a total purchase price of
$2.5 billion at September 30, 2003. The Company’s
maximum exposure to loss associated with such unconsolidated
variable interest entities is limited to the funded amounts of
the Company’s option deposits related to such option
purchase contracts, which totaled $146.9 million at
September 30, 2003.

Warranty:

In
November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others”, which is effective as to disclosure requirements
for all financial statements for periods ending after
December 15, 2002. With respect to the product warranty
disclosure requirements contained therein, the Company provides
its home buyers a one-year comprehensive limited warranty for
all parts and labor and a ten-year limited warranty for major
construction defects. Since the Company subcontracts its
homebuilding work to subcontractors who provide it with an
indemnity and a certificate of insurance prior to receiving
payments for their work, claims relating to workmanship and
materials are generally the primary responsibility of the
subcontractors. Warranty reserves have been established by
charging cost of sales and crediting a warranty liability for
each home delivered. The amounts charged are estimated by
management to be adequate to cover expected warranty-related
costs under all unexpired warranty obligation periods. The
Company’s warranty cost accruals are based upon historical
warranty cost experience in each market in which it operates and
are adjusted as appropriate to reflect qualitative risks
associated with the types of homes built and the geographic
areas in which they are built. The following table sets forth
the activity in the Company’s warranty reserve for the year
ended September 30, 2003 (in thousands):

Litigation Reserves:

Litigation reserves have been established for estimated amounts
based on an actuarial analysis of the Company’s past
history of claims. The Company has, and requires the majority of
its subcontractors to have, general liability insurance that
protects the Company against a portion of its risk of loss from
construction-related claims. The Company reserves for costs to
cover its self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under
those policies and for any costs in excess of its coverage
limits.

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements:

In May 2003, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
and Equity.” This statement establishes standards for the
classification and measurement of certain financial instruments
with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Certain
provisions of this statement are effective for financial
instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and
otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003. In October 2003, FASB
deferred indefinitely certain provisions of this statement
pertaining to non-controlling interests in limited life
entities. The Company does not believe that the implementation
of the deferred provisions of SFAS No. 150 will have a
material impact on the Company’s financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE B—NOTES PAYABLE

The Company’s notes payable consist of the
following (in thousands):

In March 2002, the Company filed a universal
shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion of
the Company’s debt and equity securities. At
September 30, 2003, the remaining capacity to issue new
debt or equity securities amounted to $485 million. The
universal shelf registration provides that securities may be
offered from time to time in one or more series and in the form
of senior, senior subordinated or subordinated debt, preferred
stock and/or common stock.

Maturities of consolidated notes payable,
assuming the mortgage warehouse and commercial paper conduit
facilities are not extended, are $630.4 million in 2004,
$215.2 million in 2005, $19.3 million in 2006,
$1.9 million in 2007, $218.6 million in 2008 and
$1,868.2 million thereafter.

Homebuilding:

The Company has an $805 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, including $250 million which may
be used for letters of credit. The facility matures in January
2006, and is guaranteed by substantially all of the



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries other
than its financial services subsidiaries. Borrowings bear daily
interest at rates based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) plus a spread based upon the Company’s ratio
of debt to tangible net worth. In addition to the stated
interest rates, the revolving credit facility requires the
Company to pay certain fees. Under the debt covenants associated
with the revolving credit facility, at September 30, 2003,
the Company had additional borrowing capacity of
$709.1 million. The interest rates of the unsecured bank
debt at September 30, 2002 and 2003 were 3.6% and 2.6%,
respectively.

On June 18, 2003, the Company issued
$100 million principal amount of 5 7/8% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due July 1, 2013, with interest
payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The 5 7/8% Senior Notes may be redeemed, in
whole or in part, at any time on or after July 1, 2008, at
a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus a
premium declining ratably to par, plus accrued interest. The
Company may also redeem up to 35% of the amount originally
issued with the proceeds of public offerings at a redemption
price equal to 105.875% of the principal amount through
July 1, 2006, plus accrued interest. The annual effective
interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs, is 5.9%.

On July 25, 2003, the Company redeemed its
9% Senior Notes due April 15, 2008 at an aggregate
redemption price of $107.0 million, including accrued
interest. The Company used the proceeds of the
5 7/8% Senior Notes and available cash to redeem the
called notes. Concurrent with the redemption, the Company
recorded interest expense of approximately $2.5 million,
representing the difference between the redemption premium and
the unamortized premium associated with the redeemed notes.

On May 27, 2003, the Company called all of
its zero coupon convertible senior notes due 2021 for
redemption. The call for redemption gave the note holders the
right to convert their notes into shares of D. R. Horton common
stock or to redeem them for cash at their accreted value as of
the redemption date. All of the notes were presented for
conversion into D.R. Horton common stock, and accordingly the
Company issued approximately 10 million shares of common
stock in exchange for the notes. As a result of the conversion,
common stock increased $0.1 million and additional capital
increased $219.2 million.

On April 17, 2003, the Company issued
$200 million principal amount of 6 7/8% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due May 1, 2013, with interest
payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The Company may redeem up to 35% of the amount
originally issued with the proceeds of public offerings at a
redemption price equal to 106.875% of the principal amount
through May 1, 2006, plus accrued interest. The annual
effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs, is 7.0%.

On May 23, 2003, the Company redeemed its
10% Senior Notes due 2006 at an aggregate redemption price
of approximately $150.1 million, including accrued
interest. The Company used part of the proceeds of the
6 7/8% Senior Notes to redeem the called notes.
Concurrent with the redemption, the Company recorded interest
expense of approximately $1.3 million, representing
unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs
associated with the redeemed notes.

On December 3, 2002, the Company issued
$215 million principal amount of 7 1/2% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due December 1, 2007, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The Company may redeem up to 35% of the amount
originally issued with the proceeds of public offerings at a
redemption price equal to 107.5% of the principal amount through
December 1, 2005, plus accrued interest. The annual
effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs, is 7.6%.

On April 11, 2002, the Company issued
$250 million principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due April 15, 2012, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The 8 1/2% Senior Notes may be
redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time on or after
April 15, 2007 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
principal amount plus a premium declining ratably to par, plus



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

accrued interest. The Company may also redeem up
to 35% of the amount originally issued with the proceeds of
public equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 108.5% of
the principal amount through April 15, 2005, plus accrued
interest. The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after
giving effect to the amortization of deferred financing costs
and discount, is 8.6%.

On February 21, 2002, the Company assumed
the outstanding debt of Schuler Homes, Inc.
(“Schuler”) as part of Schuler’s merger into the
Company. The debt assumed included the 9% Senior Notes due
2008, which were redeemed on July 25, 2003, the
9 3/8% Senior Notes due 2009 and the
10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011, all of
which were recorded by the Company at their market values as of
February 21, 2002. The Company repaid $20.2 million,
in principal amount, of the Schuler Senior and Senior
Subordinated Notes as part of the Company’s change of
control offer in connection with the merger.

The 10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes
assumed from Schuler are due July 15, 2011, with interest
payable semi-annually, and represent unsecured obligations of
the Company. The 10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes may
be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time on or after
July 15, 2006 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
principal amount plus a premium declining ratably to par, plus
accrued interest. The Company may also redeem up to 35% of the
aggregate principal amount of the notes with the proceeds of
public equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 110.5% of
the principal amount, plus accrued interest, at any time prior
to July 15, 2004. The annual effective interest rate of the
notes, after giving effect to the amortization of the premium,
is 9.6%.

The 9 3/8% Senior Notes assumed from
Schuler are due July 15, 2009, with interest payable
semi-annually, and represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The 9 3/8% Senior Notes may be redeemed, in
whole or in part, at any time on or after July 15, 2005 at
a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus a
premium declining ratably to par, plus accrued interest. The
Company may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal
amount of the notes with the proceeds of public equity offerings
at a redemption price equal to 109.375% of the principal amount,
plus accrued interest, at any time prior to July 15, 2004.
The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after giving
effect to the amortization of the premium, is 8.4%.

In August 2001, the Company issued
$200 million principal amount of 7 7/8% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due August 15, 2011, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The 7 7/8% Senior Notes are not
redeemable except that 35% of the amount originally issued can
be redeemed with the proceeds of public equity offerings at a
redemption price equal to 107.875% of the principal amount
through August 15, 2004, plus accrued interest. The annual
effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs and discount, is 8.0%.

In March 2001, the Company issued
$200 million principal amount of 9 3/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes. These notes, which are due March 15,
2011, with interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured
obligations of the Company. The 9 3/8% Senior
Subordinated notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any
time on or after March 15, 2006 at a redemption price equal
to 100% of the principal amount plus a premium declining ratably
to par, plus accrued interest. The Company may also redeem up to
35% of the amount originally issued with the proceeds of public
equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 109.375% of the
principal amount, plus accrued interest through March 15,
2004. The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after
giving effect to the amortization of deferred financing costs
and discount, is 9.5%.

In September 2000, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 9 3/4% Senior
Subordinated Notes. These notes, which are due
September 15, 2010, with interest payable semi-annually,
represent unsecured obligations of the Company. The
9 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are not redeemable.
The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after giving
effect to the amortization of deferred financing costs and
discount, is 9.9%.

In March 2000, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 10 1/2% Senior
Notes due April 1, 2005. In June 2000, the Company issued
an additional $50 million principal amount of its
10 1/2% Senior Notes



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

due April 1, 2005. The notes bear interest
payable semi-annually and represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The 10 1/2% Senior Notes are not redeemable.
The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after giving
effect to the amortization of deferred financing costs and
discount, is 10.8%.

In February 1999, the Company issued
$385 million principal amount of 8% Senior Notes.
These notes, which are due February 1, 2009, with interest
payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The 8% Senior Notes are not redeemable. The annual
effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs and discount, is 8.3%.

In June 1997, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior
Notes. These notes, which are due June 15, 2004, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The 8 3/8% Senior Notes are not
redeemable. The annual effective interest rate of the notes,
after giving effect to the amortization of deferred financing
costs and discount, is 8.6%.

All series of Senior Notes are senior obligations
of the Company and rank

pari passu

in right of payment to
all existing and future unsecured indebtedness of the Company,
and senior to all existing and future indebtedness expressly
subordinated to them. The Senior Subordinated Notes rank behind
all existing and future Senior Notes and bank credit facilities.
Both the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by
the majority of the Company’s subsidiaries. Upon a change
of control of the Company, holders of all series of the notes
have the right to require the Company to redeem such notes at a
price of 101% of the par amount, along with accrued and unpaid
interest.

The bank credit facilities and the indentures for
the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes contain covenants
which, taken together, limit investments in inventory, stock
repurchases, cash dividends and other restricted payments,
incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions and creation of
liens, and require certain levels of tangible net worth. At
September 30, 2003, under the most restrictive covenants,
the additional debt the Company could incur would be limited to
$1,644.8 million. Additionally, cash dividends paid on or
repurchases of the Company’s common stock and other
restricted payments are limited to an amount not to exceed, on a
cumulative basis, 50% of consolidated net income, as defined,
subject to certain other adjustments. Pursuant to the most
restrictive of these requirements, the Company had approximately
$373.4 million available for the payment of dividends and
other restricted payments at September 30, 2003.

The Company uses interest rate swap agreements to
help manage a portion of its interest rate exposure. The
agreements convert a notional amount of $200 million from a
variable rate to a fixed rate. These agreements are cancellable
by a third party during periods where LIBOR exceeds 7%. The
agreements expire at dates through September, 2008. The Company
does not expect non-performance by the counter-party, a major
U.S. bank, and any losses incurred in the event of
non-performance are not expected to be material. Net payments or
receipts under these agreements are recorded as adjustments to
interest incurred. As a result of these agreements, the
Company’s net interest costs were reduced by
$1.5 million in 2001 and increased by $6.0 million and
$7.5 million in 2002 and 2003, respectively.

Financial Services:

The Company’s mortgage subsidiary has a
$230 million mortgage warehouse line payable to financial
institutions, maturing February 12, 2004, at the 30-day
LIBOR rate plus a fixed premium. The mortgage warehouse line is
secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not
guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of the
Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes. The interest rates of the
mortgage warehouse line payable at September 30, 2002 and
2003 were 2.9% and 2.2%, respectively.

The Company’s mortgage subsidiary also has a
$300 million commercial paper conduit facility (the
“CP conduit facility”), which expires on
June 29, 2006, the terms of which are renewable annually by
the sponsoring banks. The CP conduit facility is secured by
certain mortgage loans held for sale and is not guaranteed by
D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the guarantors of the Senior and
Senior Subordinated Notes. The



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

mortgage loans pledged to secure the CP conduit
facility are used as collateral for mortgage-backed securities
sold in the secondary commercial paper markets. The interest
rates of the CP conduit facility at September 30, 2002
and 2003 were 2.4% and 1.7%, respectively.

NOTE C—ACQUISITIONS

In fiscal 2001 and 2002 the Company made the
following acquisitions:

Consideration includes cash paid and assumption
of certain accounts payable and notes payable, some of which
were repaid subsequent to the acquisitions. Also included are
1,012,925 shares of common stock, valued at
$25.0 million, issued as partial consideration for the
acquisition of Emerald Builders, and 20,079,532 shares of
common stock, valued at $621.1 million, issued as partial
consideration for the acquisition of Schuler Homes, Inc.

On May 1, 2001, the Company acquired the
assets of Fortress-Florida, Inc. (Fortress-Florida), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of The Fortress Group, Inc., for
$28.7 million in cash. Fortress-Florida assets, primarily
inventories, amounted to approximately $47.1 million. Total
liabilities assumed amounted to approximately
$24.3 million, including notes payable of
$17.4 million, which were paid at closing. The
Fortress-Florida acquisition was treated as a purchase for
accounting purposes.

On July 17, 2001, the Company completed the
acquisition of the assets of Emerald Builders (Emerald), a
privately held homebuilder based in Houston, Texas. In the
transaction, the Company issued 1,012,925 shares of common
stock valued at $25.0 million, paid $31.6 million in
cash and assumed liabilities of approximately
$137.0 million, including notes payable of
$110.6 million, most of which were paid at closing.
Emerald’s assets, primarily inventories, amounted to
approximately $170.4 million. The Emerald acquisition was
treated as a purchase for accounting purposes.

On February 21, 2002, Schuler Homes, Inc.
merged with and into D.R. Horton, Inc., with D.R. Horton
the surviving corporation. At the time of the merger,
Schuler’s assets amounted to $1,393.3 million, mostly
inventory. The total merger consideration consisted of the
issuance of 20,079,532 shares of D.R. Horton, Inc.
common stock, valued at $30.93 per share (the average
closing price of D.R. Horton common stock for a period of
ten trading days from December 4, 2001 to December 17,
2001); the payment of $168.7 million in cash; the
assumption of $802.2 million of Schuler’s debt,
$238.2 million of which was paid at closing; the assumption
of trade payables and other liabilities amounting to
$218.7 million; and the assumption of $10.8 million of
obligations to the Schuler entities’ minority interest
holders. Also, D.R. Horton issued options to purchase
approximately 527,000 shares of D.R. Horton common
stock to Schuler employees to replace outstanding Schuler stock
options. The fair value of the options issued was
$10.4 million and was recorded as additional capital. The
fair value of the unvested options issued was $6.0 million
and was recorded as unearned compensation. The unearned
compensation is being amortized over the remaining vesting
period of the stock options. The amount of goodwill acquired in
the Schuler acquisition was $441.6 million of which
$30.9 million is deductible for tax purposes. There were no
other significant changes in goodwill during the years ended
September 30, 2002 and 2003.

The merger was treated as a purchase of Schuler
by D.R. Horton for accounting purposes. Under this method,
Schuler assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded on
the Company’s balance sheet at their fair market values as
of February 21, 2002. Schuler’s results of operations
from February 22, 2002 to



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

September 30, 2002 are included in the
Company’s results of operations for the year ended
September 30, 2002.

The following unaudited pro forma combined
condensed financial data for the years ending September 30,
2001 and 2002 were derived from the historical financial
statements of D.R. Horton, Inc., Schuler, Fortress-Florida,
and Emerald Builders. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed
financial data give effect to the merger with Schuler and the
acquisitions of Fortress-Florida and Emerald as if they had
occurred at the beginning of each period presented. Pro forma
adjustments to the historical financial data reflect those that
we deem appropriate and are factually supported based upon
currently available information. The only pro forma adjustment
that significantly affected the combined historical financial
data for the years ended September 30, 2001 and 2002 was
the pro forma effect of recording Schuler’s inventories at
fair value at the beginning of the year ended September 30,
2001. This pro forma adjustment would have reduced net income
for that year by $25.2 million.

The unaudited pro forma combined condensed
financial data has been included for comparative purposes only
and does not purport to show what the operating results would
have been if the merger had been consummated as of the dates
indicated and should not be construed as representative of
future operating results.

NOTE D—STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

At September 30, 2003,
157,419,220 shares of Common Stock were issued and
154,766,420 shares were outstanding. No shares of Preferred
Stock were issued or outstanding. On that date, 9,442,420 and
8,919,534 shares of Common Stock were reserved for issuance
pursuant to the D.R. Horton, Inc. Stock Incentive Plans and
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, respectively.

On February 27, 2001, the Board of Directors
declared an 11% common stock dividend, payable on March 23,
2001, to stockholders of record on March 9, 2001. The
dividend was accounted for based on the fair value of the
Company’s stock on the date of declaration.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On March 4, 2002, the Board of Directors
declared a three-for-two common stock split (effected as a 50%
stock dividend) payable on April 9, 2002, to stockholders
of record on March 26, 2002.

The Company has a shelf registration statement
with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue, from time
to time, up to 15 million shares of registered common stock
in connection with future acquisitions.

In November 1998, the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million each of the
Company’s common stock and debt securities, as market
conditions warrant. From November 1998 through March 2001, the
Company repurchased $36.9 million (2,589,200 shares)
of common stock in open market purchases under the stock
repurchase plan. All 2,589,200 shares were reissued in
March 2001 as partial payment of the 11% stock dividend. On
July 31, 2003, the Board of Directors increased the
authorizations for repurchases of the Company’s common
stock to $200 million and of the Company’s outstanding
debt securities to an additional $200 million. In fiscal
2003, the Company repurchased 2,652,800 shares of common
stock in open market purchases at an aggregate purchase price of
$58.9 million and had $175.6 million remaining of the
Board of Directors’ authorization for repurchases of common
stock and $200 million remaining of the authorization for
repurchases of debt securities.

NOTE E—PROVISION FOR INCOME
TAXES

The provision for income taxes includes the
following components (in thousands):



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
used for income tax purposes. These differences primarily relate
to the following (in thousands):

The net deferred tax assets are included in the
balance sheet as other assets.

The difference between income tax expense and tax
computed by applying the federal statutory income tax rate of
35% to income before taxes is due to the following (in
thousands):

NOTE F—EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company has a 401(k) plan for all Company
employees who have been with the Company for a period of six
months or more. The Company matches portions of employees’
voluntary contributions. Additional employer contributions in
the form of profit sharing are at the discretion of the Company.
Expenses for the plan were $4.2 million, $6.0 million
and $6.9 million for 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

The Company’s Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan (“SERP”) is a non-qualified deferred
compensation program that provides benefits payable to certain
management employees upon retirement, death, or termination of
employment with the Company. Under it, the Company accrues an
unfunded benefit based on a percentage of the eligible
employees’ salaries, as well as an interest factor based
upon a predetermined formula. The Company recorded
$1.3 million, $1.4 million and $2.2 million of
expense for this plan in 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

In June 2002, the Company established a new
deferred compensation plan to a select group of employees. The
participating employees designate investments for their
contributions; however, the Company is not required to invest
the contributions in the designated investments. The Company
records as expense the amount that the employee contributions
would have earned had the funds been invested in the designated



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

investments. The Company recorded
$0.6 million and $1.3 million of expense for this plan
in 2002 and 2003, respectively.

The Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan
provides eligible employees the opportunity to purchase common
stock of the Company at a discounted price of 85% of the fair
market value of the stock on the date of purchase. Under the
terms of the plan, the total fair market value of the common
stock that an eligible employee may purchase each year is
limited to the lesser of 15% of the employee’s annual
compensation or $25,000. Under the plan, employees of the
Company purchased 7,450 shares for $0.1 million in
2001, 18,460 shares for $0.4 million in 2002 and
40,736 shares for $0.8 million in 2003.

The Company Stock Incentive Plans provide for the
granting of stock options to certain key employees of the
Company to purchase shares of common stock. Options are granted
at exercise prices which equal the market value of the
Company’s common stock at the date of the grant. Options
generally expire 10 years after the dates on which they
were granted. Options generally vest over periods of 5 to
10 years. There were 1,529,583 and 2,137,308 shares
available for future grants under the Plans at
September 30, 2002 and 2003, respectively. The Company
issued an 11% stock dividend on March 23, 2001 and a
three-for-two stock split on April 9, 2002. The amounts in
the following table have been adjusted to reflect the effects of
the dividend and stock split.

Activity under the Company Stock Incentive Plans
are:

Exercise prices for options outstanding at
September 30, 2003, ranged from $3.3226 to $28.7067.

The weighted average remaining contractual lives
of those options are:

The weighted average fair value of grants made in
2001, 2002 and 2003 was $5.19, $12.85 and $12.11 per share,
respectively. The grant amount for 2001 has been adjusted for
the three-for-two stock split (effected as a 50% stock dividend)
of April 9, 2002.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The fair values of the options granted were
estimated on the date of their grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model based on the following weighted average
assumptions:

NOTE G—FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair values of the Company’s financial
instruments are based on quoted market prices, where available,
or are estimated. Fair value estimates are made at a specific
point in time based on relevant market information and
information about the financial instrument. These estimates are
subjective in nature, involve matters of judgment and therefore,
cannot be determined with precision. Estimated fair values are
significantly affected by the assumptions used.

The table below sets forth the carrying values
and estimated fair values of the Company’s financial
instruments (in thousands).



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company used the following methods and
assumptions in estimating fair values:

For cash and cash equivalents, the revolving
credit facility, the mortgage warehouse facility, the commercial
paper conduit facility and other notes payable, the carrying
amounts reported in the balance sheet approximate fair values
due to their short maturity or floating interest rate terms, as
applicable.

For the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes,
fair values represent quoted market prices. For interest rate
swaps, mortgage loans held for sale, forward sales of mortgage
backed securities and interest rate lock commitments, the fair
values are estimated based on quoted market prices for similar
financial instruments.

NOTE H—

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company is involved in lawsuits and other
contingencies in the ordinary course of business. Management
believes that, while the ultimate outcome of the contingencies
cannot be predicted with certainty, the ultimate liability, if
any, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company
enters into land and lot option purchase contracts in order to
procure land or lots for the construction of homes. At
September 30, 2003, the Company had cash deposits of
$149.2 million and promissory notes of $3.5 million to
purchase land and lots with a total purchase price of
$2.5 billion. Only $62.8 million of the
$2.5 billion in land lot option purchase contracts contain
specific performance clauses which will require the Company to
purchase the land or lots. The majority of land and lots under
contract are expected to be purchased within three years.

Additionally, in the normal course of its
business activities, the Company provides standby letters of
credit and performance bonds, issued by third parties, to secure
performance under various contracts. At September 30, 2003,
outstanding standby letters of credit were $118.6 million
and performance bonds were $1,147.1 million. The Company
has an additional capacity of $154.1 million for standby
letters of credit under its revolving credit facility.

The Company leases office space under
noncancellable operating leases. Minimum annual lease payments
under these leases at September 30, 2003 approximate (in
thousands):

Rent expense approximated $14.4 million,
$25.1 million and $27.7 million for fiscal 2001, 2002
and 2003, respectively.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE I—SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL
INFORMATION

The 5 7/8%, 6 7/8%, 7 1/2%,
7 7/8%, 8%, 8 3/8%, 8 1/2%, 9 3/8% and
10 1/2% Senior Notes, and the 9 3/8%, 9 3/4%
and 10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by all
of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries
(Guarantor Subsidiaries), other than financial services
subsidiaries and certain other inconsequential subsidiaries
(collectively, Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries). Each of the
Guarantor Subsidiaries is wholly-owned. In lieu of providing
separate audited financial statements for the Guarantor
Subsidiaries, consolidated condensed financial statements are
presented below. Separate financial statements and other
disclosures concerning the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not
presented because management has determined that they are not
material to investors.

Consolidating Balance Sheet

September 30, 2003



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Balance Sheet

September 30, 2002



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 2003



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 2002



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 2001



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 2003



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 2002



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 2001



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE J—QUARTERLY RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

Quarterly results of operations are (in
thousands, except for per share amounts):

(1)

Revenues from the acquired Schuler operations
    were $475.4 million in the three months ended
    September 30, 2002, $352.4 million in the three months
    ended June 30, 2002, and $418.8 million in the three
    months ended March 31, 2002.

(2)

All basic and diluted share amounts presented
    above have been restated to reflect the effects of the
    three-for-two stock split (effected as a 50% stock dividend) of
    April 9, 2002.

NOTE K—TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED
PARTIES

One of the Company’s former directors
beneficially owns EVP Capital, L.P., (“EVP”), which
was a general partner of Encore Venture Partners II
(Texas), L.P. (“Encore”), a Company affiliate which,
together with other Company affiliates, invested in technology
start-up and emerging growth companies. During the term of
EVP’s interest in Encore, this former director advised and
assisted the Company in its homebuilder acquisitions. In
connection with the termination of the Company’s investment
program through Encore, the existing agreement with EVP was
terminated, along with EVP’s interests in Encore. After
such termination, through advisory arrangements with the
Company, this former director continued to monitor Encore and
affiliate investments and to advise and assist the Company in
its homebuilder acquisitions and in the process of integrating
acquired homebuilding operations. For the year ended
September 30, 2001, the Company paid EVP approximately
$1.7 million, excluding reimbursement of expenses, for
advice and assistance provided by this former director under the
foregoing agreements and arrangements. For this former
director’s advice and assistance during the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2002, the Company paid EVP
$2.0 million, in addition to the reimbursement of expenses.
The advisory arrangements terminated as of September 30,
2002.

NOTE L—SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On December 1, 2003, the Company’s
Board of Directors declared a three-for-two common stock split
(to be effected as a 50% stock dividend), payable on
January 12, 2004 to stockholders of record on
December 22, 2003.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table sets forth the Company’s
earnings per share assuming the stock split had occurred as of
October 1, 2000:



ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company’s management has long recognized
its responsibilities for developing, implementing and monitoring
effective and efficient internal controls and procedures. As
part of those responsibilities, as of September 30, 2003,
an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company’s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Senior Executive Vice
President (“SEVP”) and Chief Financial Officer
(“CFO”), of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on that evaluation, the Company’s
management, including the CEO, SEVP and CFO, concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of September 30, 2003. There have been no significant
changes in the Company’s internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to September 30, 2003.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
    REGISTRANT

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Election of Directors” at
pages 3 through 9, and under the caption
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” at page 25, of the registrant’s
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on January 29, 2004 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” at
page 14 through 16 and under the caption “Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” at
page 17 of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
January 29, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans

The following table summarizes our equity
compensation plans as of September 30, 2003:

(1)

Includes 8,919,534 shares reserved for
    issuance under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
    Under this Employee Stock Purchase Plan, employees of the
    Company purchased 18,460 shares of common stock in fiscal
    2002 and 40,736 shares of common stock in fiscal 2003.



The remaining information required by this item
is set forth under the caption “Beneficial Ownership of
Common Stock” at pages 12 and 13 of the
registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 29, 2004 and
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Executive Compensation —
Transactions with Management” at pages 16 and 17 of
the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 29,
2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
    SERVICES

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Audit Fees and All Other
Fees” at pages 24 and 25 of the registrant’s
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on January 29, 2004 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND
    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as
part of this report:

1. Financial Statements:

See Item 8 above.

2. Financial Statement
    Schedules:

Schedules for which provision is made in the
applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”) are not required under the
related instructions or are not applicable, and therefore have
been omitted.

3. and 15.(c) Exhibits:











*

Filed herewith

**

Posted to the Company’s website at

www.drhorton.com

.

(1)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1
    to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-4
    (Registration No. 333-44279), filed with the SEC on
    January 15, 1998.

(2)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1
    to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
    October 22, 2001, filed with the SEC on October 24,
    2001; and Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K, dated November 8, 2001, filed with
    the SEC on November 8, 2001.

(3)

Incorporated herein by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
    Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended December 31, 2002,
    dated February 18 , 2003 and filed with the SEC on
    February 18, 2003.

(3a)

Incorporated herein by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1(a) to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
    Form 10-Q / A for the quarter ended December 31, 2002,
    dated February 18, 2003 and filed with the SEC on
    February 18, 2003.

(4)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1
    to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
    the quarter ended December 31, 1998, filed with the SEC on
    February 16, 1999.

(5)

Incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the Registrant’s Registration
    Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-27521), filed with the
    SEC on May 21, 1997.









(b) The following reports were filed on
Form 8-K by the Registrant during the quarter ended
September 30, 2003:

(i) On July 9, 2003, the Registrant
    furnished to the SEC an Item 12 Current Report on
    Form 8-K relating to a press release the Company issued on
    July 8, 2003 to announce its net sales orders for the
    quarterly and nine month period ended June 30, 2003.

(ii) On July 17, 2003, the Registrant
    furnished to the SEC an Item 12 Current Report on
    Form 8-K relating to a press release the Company issued on
    July 16, 2003 to announce its net income for the quarterly
    and nine month period ended June 30, 2003 and to announce
    its backlog of homes under contract at June 30, 2003.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

D.R. HORTON, INC.

Date: December 12, 2003

By

/s/ DONALD J. TOMNITZ

Donald J. Tomnitz,

Vice Chairman, Chief Executive
    Officer

and President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



CORPORATE INFORMATION

D.R. Horton, Inc. (the “Company”),
one of the largest homebuilders in the United States, constructs
and sells high quality single-family homes designed principally
for the first-time and move-up home-buyers. Founded in 1978, the
Company operates in 20 states and 47 markets, with a
geographic presence in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast,
Southwest, and West regions of the United States. The Company
builds and sells homes under the trade names D.R. Horton,
Cambridge, Continental, Dietz Crane, Emerald, Melody, Milburn,
Schuler, Stafford, Torrey, Trimark and Western Pacific.

The Company’s homes generally range in size
from 1,000 to 5,000 square feet and range in price from
$80,000 to $900,000. For the year ended September 30, 2003,
the Company closed 35,934 homes with an average sales price of
approximately $231,900.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Donald R. Horton

Chairman

Donald J. Tomnitz

Vice Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer

Bill W. Wheat

Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

Bradley S. Anderson

Senior Vice President of CB
    Richard Ellis, Inc.(1)(2)(3)

Michael R. Buchanan

Former National Managing Director,
    Real Estate

Group, Bank of America(1)(3)

Richard I. Galland

Former Chief Executive Officer and
    Chairman of

Fina, Inc. (1)(2)(3)

Francine I. Neff

Former Treasurer of the United
    States(1)(2)(3)

Investor Relations

Stacey H. Dwyer

D.R. Horton, Inc.

1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100

Arlington, Texas 76006

(817) 856-8200

Annual Meeting

January 29, 2004

At the Corporate Offices of

D.R. Horton, Inc.

1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100

Arlington, Texas 76006

Public Debt Ratings

Senior:

BB  Standard & Poor’s Corporation

Bal  Moody’s Investors Service

BB+ Fitch Ratings

Senior Subordinated:

B+  Standard & Poor’s Corporation

Ba2  Moody’s Investors Service

BB- Fitch Ratings

(1) Audit Committee Member

(2) Compensation Committee Member

(3) Nominating and Governance Committee
Member

Transfer Agent and Registrar

American Stock Transfer & Trust Co.

59 Maiden Lane

New York, NY 10038

(800) 937-5449

72