
10-K
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FOR D.R. HORTON, INC.


 

Letter to Our Stockholders:

  D.R.  Horton,  Inc.  enjoyed another  exceptional  year in 1996.  By  growing
revenues and earnings to new records,  our Company achieved its 19th consecutive
year  of  growth  and  profitability  and  is  now  the  twenty-second   largest
homebuilder in the United States.

SINCE COMPLETING OUR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING IN JUNE 1992, D.R. HORTON, INC.
HAS:

  . Expanded from 8 to 24 markets

  . Grown its revenues from $153 million to over $547 million

  . Increased net income from $8.1 million to $27.4 million

  . Increased stockholders' equity from $50.2 million to $177.6 million

  . Provided stockholders with an annual return on average stockholders'
    equity of 20%

  The growth that we have experienced since June 1992 reinforces the belief that
we can achieve our goal of $1 billion in revenues by the year 2000.

KEY FINANCIAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 1996 INCLUDE:

  . 33% increase in net income to $27.4 million

  . 25% increase in revenues to $547.3 million (3,284 homes)

  . 30% increase in new sales orders to $585.5 million (3,488 homes)

  . 22% increase in year end sales backlog to $208.9 million (1,204 homes)

DURING 1996 WE ALSO WERE SUCCESSFUL IN:

  . Improving our pretax  earnings by 70 basis points to 8.1% of revenues.  This
    was  accomplished  by  improved  gross  margins (20 basis  points),  reduced
    selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues (40
    basis points), and increased other income from mortgage and title activities
    (10 basis points).

  . Listing our Company on the New York Stock  Exchange  under the symbol "DHI",
    which reduced the quoted  spreads on our stock and improved the execution of
    stockholder transactions.

  . Raising  $43.2  million of additional  equity by issuing  additional  common
    stock in January 1996.  This  provided us with the equity  necessary for our
    continued growth and increased our book value per share by 18%.

  . Increasing our banking relationships with credit facilities approaching $300
    million,  all on an  unsecured  basis and at  improved  financing  rates and
    terms. $100 million of this amount is a five-year term note and $150 million
    is a three-year  revolver.  By using bank financing  instead of public debt,
    the Company saved over $2 million in financing costs in 1996 alone.

  . Expanding our operations to  Pensacola and Albuquerque,  which provided new
    opportunities for future  growth. D.R.  Horton, Inc.  served 24  markets and
    is one of three homebuilding companies with operations in 19 states.

  . Diversifying our activities to expand on the  relationships we have with our
    homebuyers by creating DRH Mortgage  Company,  Ltd., a joint venture,  which
    provides mortgage  financing services primarily to purchasers of homes built
    and sold by the Company.  We presently offer these services in our Texas and
    Arizona markets,  with expansion planned to other markets.  Our title agency
    activities  also  were  expanded  to  include   operations  in  Florida  and
    additional markets in Texas. We continue exploring other ways to broaden the
    services we provide to our homebuyers.


  . Using option  contracts to control (rather than own) adequate land positions
    to meet our future  needs  allows us to conserve  our capital and reduce the
    risk associated with land ownership. At September 30, 1996, D.R. Horton held
    option contracts for 9,180 lots with an estimated  aggregate  purchase price
    approximating  $290  million.  This  represents  about  64% of our total lot
    position.

  . Distributing  an  8%  stock  dividend  in  May  as  a  method  of  enhancing
    stockholder value. We believe this also improves the liquidity of our common
    stock.

  . Establishing  the  D.R. Horton stock  purchase  plan to  promote  employee
    purchases of D.R. Horton, Inc. common stock.  Company  employees own  more
    than  50%  of  the  outstanding  stock,  thereby  uniting  employees  and
    stockholders in common goals.

COMPANY AWARDS

  We reward excellence within our Company by issuing three annual awards:

  . The Dallas/Fort Worth East Division, managed by Leon Horton, was named
    "Division of The Year" by Mr. Horton's peer group within the Company.

  . Our San Diego Division had an award winning Triana Project where the Company
    enjoyed great success.

          Nancy French,  our sales person on this project,  led the Company 
          by selling the highest dollar volume of homes and is our "Sales 
          Person of the Year".

          Tom  Lombardi,  the  construction  manager for the  same project,  
          is  our  "Construction  Person of the Year"   for supervising  
          construction of the most homes in 1996.

  We  congratulate  the  recipients  of these awards and we  emphasize  that our
employees are key to the success of our Company.

THE FUTURE

  D.R. Horton is well positioned to achieve its 20th  consecutive year of growth
and  profitability  in 1997.  We begin the year with a large  backlog and strong
financial position. Most importantly,  we have a dedicated group of employees to
accomplish our goals.

  In the first three months of our 1997  fiscal  year, we entered  the Nashville
market and acquired substantially all the assets of SGS Communities in North and
Central  New Jersey and  Trimark  Communities  in Denver.  SGS  compliments  our
geographic  diversity and provides a vehicle for expansion into other  Northeast
markets.  Trimark  expands our existing Denver  activities by  diversifying  our
product offerings to include  affordable  townhomes and condominiums.  We expect
immediate incremental earnings from these acquisitions,  and now have operations
in 26 markets in 21 states.

  Our history  demonstrates our ability to grow by starting up operations in new
markets and successfully  acquiring  homebuilding  companies that make immediate
contributions  to our  earnings.  The growth of our Company  through  geographic
expansion is unmatched by anyone in the industry.

  We are  grateful  for our  success  in 1996  and  look  forward  to  increased
profitability in the future.


                                          /s/ Donald R. Horton

                                          Donald R. Horton
                                          Chairman of the Board and President


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                --------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

  [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
       OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

                                      OR

  [_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
       OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM     TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4112

                                --------------

                               D.R. HORTON, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              DELAWARE                                 75-2386963
   (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   incorporation or organization)

   1901 ASCENSION BLVD, SUITE 100                         76006
          ARLINGTON, TEXAS                             (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive
              offices)

                                (817) 856-8200
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

         TITLE OF EACH CLASS         NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
         -------------------         -----------------------------------------

   Common Stock, par value $.01 per         The New York Stock Exchange
                 share
           (Title of Class)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                     None

  INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS),  AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.
YES  X     NO
    ---       ---

  INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K ((S)229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL
NOT BE CONTAINED,  TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR
INFORMATION  STATEMENTS  INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K
OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.
YES        NO  X
    ---       ---

  AS OF DECEMBER 6, 1996,  THERE WERE  32,377,695  SHARES OF COMMON  STOCK,  PAR
VALUE $.01 PER SHARE, ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING,  AND THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF
THESE  SHARES  HELD  BY  NON-AFFILIATES  OF  THE  REGISTRANT  WAS  APPROXIMATELY
$184,851,000.  SOLELY  FOR  PURPOSES  OF THIS  CALCULATION,  ALL  DIRECTORS  AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS WERE EXCLUDED AS AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions  of the  registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders  to be held  on  January  23,  1997,  are  incorporated  herein  by
reference in Part III.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

  D.R. Horton, Inc. and its operating  subsidiaries are engaged primarily in the
construction  and  sale of  single-family  homes in the  Mid-Atlantic,  Midwest,
Southeast,  Southwest  and  Western  regions of the United  States.  The Company
offers  high-quality  homes with custom features,  designed  principally for the
entry-level and move-up market segments.  The Company's homes generally range in
size  from  1,000 to 5,000  square  feet and  range  in price  from  $80,000  to
$600,000.  For the year ended  September 30, 1996, the Company closed homes with
an average sales price approximating $166,600.

  The Company is one of the most geographically  diversified homebuilders in the
United  States,  with  operating  divisions  in 21 states and 26 markets.  These
markets include Albuquerque,  Atlanta, Austin, Birmingham,  Charlotte,  Chicago,
Cincinnati,  Dallas/Fort Worth, Denver,  Greensboro,  Houston,  Kansas City, Las
Vegas,  Los  Angeles,  Minneapolis/St.  Paul,  Nashville,  New Jersey,  Orlando,
Pensacola,  Phoenix,  Raleigh/Durham,  Salt Lake City, San Diego, South Florida,
St. Louis and suburban Washington, D.C.

  The Company was  incorporated  in Delaware on July 1, 1991,  to acquire all of
the assets and businesses of 25 predecessor  companies,  which were  residential
home construction and development companies owned or controlled by Donald R.
Horton.

  The Company's principal executive offices are located at 1901 Ascension Blvd.,
Suite 100, Arlington, Texas 76006, and its telephone number is (817) 856-8200.

OPERATING STRATEGY

  The  Company  believes  that  there  are  several  important  elements  to its
operating  strategy  which  have  enabled it to  achieve  consistent  growth and
profitability. The following are important elements of this strategy:

  Geographic Diversification. From 1978 to late 1987, the Company's homebuilding
activities were conducted exclusively in the Dallas/Fort Worth area. The Company
then instituted a policy of diversifying geographically and commenced operations
in late 1987 in  Phoenix.  The  Company  entered  Atlanta  and  Orlando in 1988;
Charlotte in 1989; Houston in 1990; suburban Washington,  D.C. in 1991; Chicago,
Cincinnati,  Raleigh/Durham and South Florida in 1992; Austin, Los Angeles, Salt
Lake City and San Diego in 1993; Minneapolis/St. Paul, Kansas City and Las Vegas
in 1994; Birmingham,  Denver,  Greensboro and St. Louis in 1995; and Albuquerque
and Pensacola in 1996. In the early months of fiscal 1997, the Company announced
the  commencement  of operations in Nashville and North Central New Jersey.  The
Company  continually  monitors  the sales and  margins  achieved  in each of the
subdivisions  in which  it  operates  as part of an  overall  evaluation  of the
employment of its capital.  The Company  believes there are  significant  growth
opportunities  in its  existing  markets,  however,  it intends to continue  its
policy of  geographic  diversification  by  seeking  to enter new  markets.  The
Company  believes  that its  diversification  strategy  mitigates the effects of
local and regional economic cycles and enhances its growth potential. Typically,
the Company will not invest material amounts in real estate, including raw land,
developed lots, models and speculative homes, or overhead in start-up operations
in new markets until such markets  demonstrate  significant growth potential and
acceptance of the Company and its products.

  Acquisitions -- As an integral component of the Company's operational strategy
of continued expansion and geographic  diversification,  the Company continually
evaluates  opportunities for strategic  acquisitions.  The Company believes that
the expansion of its operations through the acquisition of existing homebuilding
companies  affords it several  benefits not found in start-up  operations.  Such
benefits  include   established   land  positions  and   inventories;   existing
relationships with land owners, developers,  subcontractors and suppliers; brand
name recognition;  and proven product acceptance by homebuyers in the market. In
evaluating  potential  acquisition  candidates,  the Company seeks  homebuilding
companies that have an excellent reputation, a track record of profitability and
a strong management team with an  entrepreneurial  orientation.  The Company has
limited  the risks  associated  with  acquiring  a going  concern by  conducting
extensive  operational,  financial and legal due  diligence on each  acquisition
candidate  and  by  structuring  each  transaction  typically  as a purchase of



assets and assumption of only specific  related  liabilities.  In addition,  the
Company seeks to further limit  acquisition risk by only acquiring  homebuilding
companies that the Company believes should have an immediate  positive impact on
the Company's earnings.

  The Company has acquired five  homebuilding companies  since 1994.  Joe Miller
Homes, Inc./Argus  Development,  Inc. in Minneapolis/St.  Paul, Minnesota,  were
acquired in April 1994. Arappco Inc., in Greensboro, North Carolina, and Regency
Development, Inc., in Birmingham,  Alabama, were acquired in July and September,
1995,  respectively.  In October and December  1996 (fiscal  1997),  the Company
acquired Trimark  Communities,  L.L.C. in Denver,  Colorado and SGS Communities,
Inc.  in North  Central  New  Jersey,  respectively.  In both  existing  and new
markets,  the Company  anticipates  that it will continue to evaluate  potential
future acquisition opportunities that satisfy its acquisition criteria.

  Market Focus -- Custom  Features.  The Company  positions itself between large
volume  homebuilders  and  local  custom  homebuilders  by  offering  a  broader
selection  of homes  that  typically  have more  amenities  and  greater  design
flexibility than homes offered by volume builders,  at prices that are generally
more  affordable  than  those  charged by local  custom  builders.  The  Company
generally  offers between five and ten home designs that it believes will appeal
to  local  homebuyers  at each of its  subdivisions,  but is  prepared  to offer
additional  building plans and options that may be more suitable or desirable to
homebuyers.  The  Company  also is  prepared to  customize  such  designs to the
individual  tastes and  specifications  of its  homebuyers.  While  most  design
modifications  are  significant to homebuyers,  such changes  typically  involve
relatively  minor  adjustments  including,  among other  things,  modifying  the
interior or exterior  dimensions  of the home and changing  exterior  materials.
Such changes  generally improve the Company's gross margins.  Consequently,  the
Company  believes  that it is able to  maintain  the  efficiencies  of a  volume
builder while delivering high-quality,  personalized homes to its customers. The
Company  believes  that its ability to cater to the design tastes and desires of
the  prospective  homebuyer  at  competitive  prices,  even at the  entry-level,
distinguishes it from many of its competitors.

  Decentralized   Operations.   The  Company's   homebuilding   activities   are
decentralized to give more operating flexibility to its local division managers.
The  Company's  homebuilding  activities  are  conducted  through  30  operating
divisions,  some of which are in the same general market area.  Generally,  each
operating division consists of a vice president,  an office manager and staff, a
sales  manager,  one to eleven sales people and one  construction  manager,  who
oversees  one to  nine  construction  supervisors.  The  Company  believes  that
division  managers,  who are  intimately  familiar with local  conditions,  make
better decisions  regarding local operations than do the centralized,  corporate
management  teams  who make such  decisions  for many of our  competitors.  Each
operating division is responsible for preliminary site selection, negotiation of
option or similar contracts,  and overseeing land development  activities.  Site
selection  and lot  acquisition  typically  involve a  feasibility  study by the
operating  division,  including  soil and  environmental  reviews,  a review  of
existing zoning and other  governmental  requirements,  and a review of the need
for and extent of offsite work and additional lot  preparation  required to meet
local  building  codes.  Each  operating  division  also plans its  homebuilding
schedule,   selects  the  building  plans  and  architectural   scheme  for  its
subdivisions, obtains all necessary building approvals, and develops a marketing
plan for its homes.  Division  managers receive  performance  bonuses based upon
achieving targeted operating levels in their operating divisions.

  The  Company's  corporate  office  controls  key risk  elements  by  retaining
oversight  and   responsibility   for  final   approval  of  all  land  and  lot
acquisitions,   inventory  levels,   financing   arrangements,   accounting  and
management reporting,  payment of subcontractor  invoices,  payroll and employee
benefits.

  Cost  Management.  The  Company  strives  to  control  its  overhead  costs by
centralizing  its  administrative  and accounting  functions and by limiting the
number of field administrative  personnel and middle level management positions.
The Company also  attempts to minimize  advertising  costs by  participating  in
promotional  activities,  publications  and newsletters  sponsored by local real
estate brokers,  mortgage  companies,  utility companies and trade associations,
and, in certain  instances,  by  positioning  its  subdivisions  in  conspicuous
locations that permit it to take advantage of local traffic patterns.

  The  Company  attempts to control  construction  costs  through the  efficient
design  of  its  homes  and  by   obtaining   favorable   pricing  from  certain
subcontractors based on  the high volume  of work they  perform for the Company.
 


The Company's  management  information  systems,  including  the purchase  order
system, also assist in controlling  construction costs by allowing corporate and
division  management  to  monitor  expenditures  on  a  home-by-home  basis.  In
addition,  the  Company's  management  information  systems allow the Company to
monitor its inventory  composition and levels,  thereby  controlling capital and
overhead costs.

  Limited  Real  Estate  Exposure.  The  Company  generally  acquires  developed
building lots pursuant to lot option and similar  contracts after all zoning and
other  governmental  entitlements  and approvals are obtained.  By utilizing lot
option contracts,  the Company  purchases the right, but not the obligation,  to
buy building lots at predetermined  prices on a takedown  schedule  commensurate
with  anticipated  home  closings.  The lot option  contracts are generally on a
nonrecourse basis,  thereby limiting the Company's financial exposure to earnest
money deposits given to property  sellers.  This practice enables the Company to
control   significant   lot   positions   with  minimal  up  front  capital  and
substantially  reduces the risks associated with land ownership and development.
The  Company  attempts  to control a two to four year  supply of  building  lots
within each market based on current and expected  absorption rates. At September
30, 1996, the Company held lot option and similar  contracts for 9,180 lots with
an estimated aggregate purchase price approximating $290 million.  These options
are secured by cash deposits  approximating  $3.6 million and  promissory  notes
approximating $1.4 million.

MARKETS

  The  Company's  homebuilding  activities  are  conducted  in  five  geographic
regions, comprised of the following markets:



  The Company's  operations  in each of its markets  differ based on a number of
market-specific  factors. These factors include regional economic conditions and
job growth, land availability and the local land development  process,  consumer
tastes,  competition  from other  builders of new homes and secondary home sales
activity.  The Company considers each of these factors when entering new markets
or conducting operations in existing markets.

  Revenues for the Company by geographic region are:


 Land Policies

  While the Company expects to continue to rely  predominantly on lot option and
similar  contracts  to secure  developed  lots,  it will  pursue  selected  land
acquisition and development  opportunities to augment its inventory of low-cost,
quality building lots and to maximize profit opportunities. Substantially all of
the land acquired by the Company is purchased only after necessary  entitlements
have been  obtained so that the Company  has the right to begin  development  or
construction. The Company generally limits its acquisitions to smaller tracts of
entitled land that will yield under 150 lots when developed and, where possible,
obtains options to acquire adjacent parcels  for later  development. By limiting



its  acquisition  and  development  activities to smaller  parcels of land,  the
Company  reduces the  financial  and market risks  associated  with holding land
during the  development  period.  Before it acquires tracts of land, the Company
will,  among other things,  complete a feasibility  study,  which  includes soil
tests,  independent  environmental  studies  and  other  engineering  work,  and
determine that all necessary zoning and other governmental entitlements required
to develop and use the property for home  construction  have been  acquired.  At
September 30, 1996, only about 36% of the Company's total lot position of 14,350
lots was  being or had been  developed  by the  Company.  Although  the  Company
purchases land and engages in land development  activities  primarily to support
its own homebuilding  activities,  lots and land are occasionally  sold to other
developers and homebuilders.

  The following table sets forth a summary of the Company's  land/lot  positions
at September 30, 1996:



  The Company also seeks to limit its exposure to real estate inventory risks by
(i) generally commencing construction of homes under contract only after receipt
of a satisfactory  down payment and, where  applicable,  the buyer's  receipt of
mortgage approval,  (ii) limiting the number of speculative homes (homes started
without an executed sales contract) built in each subdivision, and (iii) closely
monitoring local market and demographic trends,  housing preferences and related
economic developments,  such as new job opportunities,  local growth initiatives
and personal income trends.

CONSTRUCTION

  The Company's home designs are prepared by architects in each of the Company's
markets to appeal to the local tastes and preferences of the community. Optional
interior  and exterior  features  also are offered by the Company to enhance the
basic home  design  and to promote  the  custom  aspect of the  Company's  sales
efforts.

  Substantially  all  of  the  Company's   construction  work  is  performed  by
subcontractors.  The Company's construction supervisors monitor the construction
of each home, participate in material design and building decisions,  coordinate
the  activities  of   subcontractors   and   suppliers,   subject  the  work  of
subcontractors  to quality and cost controls and monitor  compliance with zoning
and  building  codes.  Subcontractors  typically  are  retained  for a  specific
subdivision  pursuant to a contract that obligates the subcontractor to complete
construction at a fixed price. Agreements with the Company's  subcontractors and
suppliers  generally are negotiated for each  subdivision.  The Company competes
with other homebuilders for qualified subcontractors,  raw materials and lots in
the markets where it operates.

  Construction time for the Company's homes depends on the weather, availability
of labor,  materials  and supplies,  and other  factors.  The Company  typically
completes the construction of a home within four months.

  The  Company  does  not  maintain  significant   inventories  of  construction
materials,  except for work in process  materials for homes under  construction.
Typically,  the  construction  materials  used in the Company's  operations  are
readily available from numerous sources. The Company does not have any long-term
contracts with suppliers of its building materials. In recent years, the Company
has not experienced any significant  delays in construction  due to shortages of
materials or labor.

MARKETING AND SALES

  The Company  markets and sells its homes  through  commissioned  employees and
independent real estate brokers.  Home sales are typically  conducted from sales
offices located in furnished model homes used in each subdivision.  At September
30, 1996, the Company owned 223 model homes.  These  model homes  generally  are



not offered for sale until the  completion of the  respective  subdivision.  The
Company's sales personnel assist  prospective  homebuyers by providing them with
floor  plans,  price  information,  tours of model  homes and the  selection  of
options and other custom features. Such personnel are trained by the Company and
kept informed as to the  availability of financing,  construction  schedules and
marketing and advertising plans.

  In addition  to using model  homes,  the  Company  typically  builds a limited
number of  speculative  homes in each  subdivision  to enhance its marketing and
sales  activities.  Construction of these speculative homes also is necessary to
satisfy the  requirements of relocated  personnel and independent  brokers,  who
often represent homebuyers requiring a completed home within 60 days. A majority
of these  speculative  homes are sold while under  construction  or  immediately
following  completion.  The number of  speculative  homes is influenced by local
market  factors,   such  as  new  employment   opportunities,   significant  job
relocations, growing housing demand and the length of time the Company has built
in the  market.  Depending  upon the  seasonality  of each of its  markets,  the
Company seeks to limit its  speculative  homes to  approximately  five homes per
subdivision.   At  September  30,  1996,   the  Company  was  operating  in  184
subdivisions and averaged under five speculative homes in each subdivision.

  The Company  advertises on a limited  basis in  newspapers  and in real estate
broker,  mortgage company and utility publications,  brochures,  newsletters and
billboards.  To minimize  advertising  costs, the Company attempts to operate in
subdivisions in conspicuous  locations that permit it to take advantage of local
traffic patterns.  The Company also believes that model homes play a significant
role in its marketing  efforts.  Consequently,  the Company expends  significant
efforts in creating an attractive atmosphere in its model homes.

  Sales of the Company's  homes  generally are made pursuant to a standard sales
contract  which  requires a down  payment of 5% to 10% of the sales  price.  The
contract  includes a financing  contingency which permits the customer to cancel
in the event mortgage  financing at prevailing  interest  rates is  unobtainable
within a specified  period,  typically four to six weeks,  and may include other
contingencies, such as the sale of an existing home. The Company includes a home
sale in its sales  backlog upon  execution of the sales  contract and receipt of
the initial down payment.  The Company does not recognize  revenue upon the sale
of a home until the home is closed and title passes.  The Company estimates that
the average  period  between the  execution  of a sales  contract for a home and
closing is approximately three to five months for presold homes.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND QUALITY CONTROL

  The Company's  operating  divisions are responsible for  pre-closing,  quality
control inspections and responding to customers' post-closing needs. The Company
believes  that prompt and  courteous  response to  homebuyers'  needs during and
after construction  reduces  post-closing  repair costs,  enhances the Company's
reputation for quality and service,  and ultimately leads to significant  repeat
and referral business from the real estate community and homebuyers. The Company
provides its homebuyers  with a limited  one-year  warranty on  workmanship  and
building   materials.   The  subcontractors  who  perform  most  of  the  actual
construction,  in turn provide  warranties of  workmanship  to the Company,  and
generally  are prepared to respond to the Company and  homeowner  promptly  upon
request.  In most  cases,  the  Company  supplements  its  one-year  warranty by
purchasing  a  ten-year  limited  warranty  from a third  party.  To  cover  its
potential  warranty  obligations,  the Company  accrues an estimated  amount for
future warranty costs.

CUSTOMER FINANCING

  In 1996,  the Company  formed D.R.  Horton  Mortgage  Company,  Ltd.,  a joint
venture with a third party, to provide mortgage financing services,  principally
to  purchasers  of homes built and sold by the  Company.  D.R.  Horton  Mortgage
presently provides services in Dallas/Fort Worth, Austin, Houston and Phoenix.

  In its other  markets,  the Company does not  underwrite or otherwise  provide
mortgage  financing.  The Company works with a variety of mortgage  lenders that
make  available  to  homebuyers  a  range  of  conventional  mortgage  financing
programs.  By making  information about these programs  available to prospective
homebuyers  and  maintaining  a  relationship  with such mortgage  lenders,  the
Company is  able to coordinate and  expedite the  entire  sales  transaction by 
                                     


ensuring that mortgage  commitments are received and that closings take place on
a timely and efficient basis.

TITLE SERVICES

  Through its wholly owned  subsidiaries,  DRH Title Company of Texas,  Ltd. and
DRH Title  Company of Florida,  Inc.,  the Company  serves as a title  insurance
agent by providing title insurance  policies and closing  services to purchasers
of homes  built and sold by the  Company in the  Dallas/Fort  Worth,  Austin and
Florida markets.  The Company assumes no underwriting risk associated with these
title policies.

EMPLOYEES

  At September  30,  1996,  the Company  employed 612 persons,  of whom 203 were
sales and marketing personnel,  199 were executive,  administrative and clerical
personnel, 198 were involved in construction, and 12 worked in title operations.
Fewer than 10 of the Company's  employees  are covered by collective  bargaining
agreements.  Certain  of  the  subcontractors  which  the  Company  engages  are
represented by labor unions or are subject to collective bargaining  agreements.
The Company  believes that its relations  with its employees and  subcontractors
are good.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

  The Company  owns a 52,000  square foot office  complex,  consisting  of three
single-story  buildings of steel and brick  construction,  located in Arlington,
Texas, that serves as the Company's  principal  executive offices and houses two
of  the  Company's   Dallas/Fort  Worth  divisions.   The  Company  also  leases
approximately  52,100  square feet of space for its  operating  divisions  under
leases expiring between November 1996 and July 2001.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  The Company is a party to routine litigation incidental to its business.  Such
matters,  if decided  adversely  to the  Company,  would not,  in the opinion of
management,  have a material adverse effect upon the financial  condition of the
Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

  The  Company's  common  stock (the  "Common  Stock") is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "DHI".  The following  table sets forth the high
and low sales prices for the Common Stock for the periods indicated, as reported
on the NASDAQ National  Market  (through  December 13, 1995) and on the New York
Stock  Exchange  on and  after  December  14,  1995,  adjusted  for the 9% stock
dividend of June 1995,  the seven for five stock split  (effected as a 40% stock
dividend) of September 1995 and the 8% stock dividend of May 1996.



  As of September 30, 1996, there were  approximately  189 holders of record. No
cash  dividends  have been declared  since the  completion of the initial public
offering.



  The  declaration of cash dividends is at the discretion of the Company's Board
of Directors and will depend upon,  among other things,  future  earnings,  cash
flows, capital requirements,  the general financial condition of the Company and
general  business  conditions.  Other than as required to maintain the financial
ratios  and net worth  requirements  under the credit  facilities,  there are no
restrictions on the payment of cash dividends by the Company.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  The  following  selected  consolidated  financial  data  of  the  Company  are
qualified  by  reference  to  and  should  be  read  in  conjunction   with  the
consolidated  financial  statements,  related notes thereto and other  financial
data included  elsewhere  herein.  These historical  results are not necessarily
indicative of the results to be expected in the future.

  In 1993,  the  Company  changed  its fiscal  year end to  September  30,  thus
operating  information  for the nine months then ended  represents the Company's
fiscal period.


- --------
(1) Adjusted for stock  dividends of 5% in 1993, 6% in 1994, 9% and 40% in 1995,
    and 8% in 1996.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
       FINANCIAL CONDITION

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  The  following  tables set forth certain  information  regarding the Company's
operations for the periods indicated.










                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                 RESULTS OF OPERATION AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995

  Revenues  increased by 25.1% to $547.3  million in 1996 from $437.4 million in
1995.  The number of homes closed by the Company  increased  by 32.7%,  to 3,284
homes in 1996 from 2,474 homes in 1995.  Home  closings  increased in all of the
Company's  market regions,  with percentage  increases  ranging from 9.5% in the
Southwest region to 103.9% in the Western region.  Of the 32.7% increase in 1996
home  closings,  13.4% was the result of  acquisitions  made in  Greensboro  and
Birmingham  in the last  quarter of 1995.  The 1996  increase  in  revenues  was
achieved  in spite of a 4.1%  decrease  in the  average  selling  price of homes
closed,  to $166,600  in 1996 from  $173,700 in 1995.  The  decrease  was due to
changes in the  geographic  mix of homes closed within the Company and different
price points in certain markets.

  New net sales  contracts  increased 36.6% to 3,488 homes in 1996 from 2,553 in
1995.  Percentage  increases in new net sales  contracts  ranging from 126.7% to
14.2% were  achieved in the  Company's  market  regions.  The 1996 average sales
price was $167,900, compared to $176,000 in 1995.

  The Company was operating in 184 subdivisions at September 30, 1996,  compared
to 162 at September 30, 1995. At September  30, 1996,  the Company's  backlog of
sales contracts was 1,204 homes, a 20.4% increase over the comparable  figure at
September  30, 1995.  The average  sales price of homes in backlog  increased to
$173,500 at September 30, 1996, from $170,700 at September 30, 1995.

  Cost of sales  increased  by 24.8%,  to  $449.1  million  in 1996 from  $359.7
million in 1995. As a percentage of revenues,  cost of sales  decreased by 0.2%,
to 82.0% in 1996 from 82.2% in 1995. This improvement  resulted from good market
conditions  during the year,  proactive  efforts to  maintain  sales  prices and
control costs, and higher margins on homes closed on internally  developed lots.
The Company does not capitalize pre-opening costs for new subdivisions.

  Selling,  general and  administrative  (SG&A) expense  increased by 20.9%,  to
$53.9 million in 1996 from $44.5  million in 1995.  The increase in SG&A expense
was due largely to the increases in sales and construction  activity required to
sustain the higher levels of revenues.  SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues
decreased  by 0.4%,  to 9.8% in 1996  from  10.2% in 1995,  as the  Company  was
successful in controlling its variable overhead costs while the revenue increase
offset more fixed costs.

  Interest expense increased to $1.5 million in 1996, from $1.2 million in 1995,
caused by average  interest-bearing  debt growing at a slightly faster pace than
the average amount of inventory under construction and development.  The Company
follows a policy of capitalizing  interest only on inventory under  construction
or  development.  During both 1996 and 1995, a portion of incurred  interest and
other  financing  costs  could not be charged  to  inventory  and was  expensed.
Capitalized  interest and other financing costs are included in cost of sales at
the time of home closings.

  Other income,  which consists mainly of interest income,  pretax earnings from
the Company's title operations and, in 1996,  pretax earnings from the Company's
mortgage  operations,  increased to $1.5  million in 1996,  from $0.6 million in
1995. The increase was due primarily to the fact that 1996 comprised a full year
of operations for DRH Title Company of Texas, Ltd.,  compared to only six months
in 1995.  Additionally,  DRH Title  Company of Florida,  Inc.,  and DRH Mortgage
Company, Ltd. commenced operation in 1996 and provided pretax earnings.

  The provision for income taxes increased  41.9%, to $17.1 million in 1996 from
$12.0  million  in 1995,  due in part to the  corresponding  increase  in income
before  income taxes.  The  effective  tax rate  increased to 38.4% in 1996 from
36.9% in 1995. As a percentage of revenues,  the income tax provision  increased
0.4% to 3.1% in 1996.  The  increases in the  effective  tax rate and in the tax
provision  as a percentage  of revenues  were due  primarily to higher  expected
rates of state and local income taxes.



YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1994

  Revenues  increased by 11.2%, to $437.4 million in 1995 from $393.3 million in
1994. The number of homes closed by the Company increased by 4.8% to 2,474 homes
in 1995 from 2,360  homes in 1994,  led by a 103.2%  increase  in the  Company's
Western region and a 21.7% increase in the Company's  Midwest region.  The large
increase in the Western  region  resulted from earlier  investments  incurred to
enter markets within this region and illustrates a normal  progression for newer
markets.  The 1995  increase in revenues also was due in part to a 4.3% increase
in the average selling price of homes closed,  to $173,700 in 1995 from $166,600
in 1994.  The increase was due  primarily  to changes in the  geographic  mix of
homes closed  within the Company,  as homes closed in the newer  markets were at
higher  prices.   Miscellaneous  land/lot  sales  in  1995  and  the  impact  of
acquisitions also contributed to the increase in revenues.

  New net sales  contracts  increased by 9.7%, to 2,553 homes in 1995 from 2,327
in 1994. Percentage increases in new net sales contracts were achieved in all of
the Company's  market  regions,  led by 72.8% and 24.6% increases in the Western
and Midwest regions,  respectively. The 1995 average selling price was $176,000,
compared to $169,600 in 1994.

  The Company was operating in 162 subdivisions at September 30, 1995,  compared
to 137 at September 30, 1994. At September  30, 1995,  the Company's  backlog of
sales contracts was 1,000 homes, a 29.4% increase over the comparable  figure at
September  30, 1994.  The average  sales price of homes in backlog  decreased to
$170,700 at September 30, 1995, from $181,800 at September 30, 1994.

  Cost of sales  increased  by 10.3%,  to  $359.7  million  in 1995 from  $326.1
million in 1994. As a percentage of revenues,  cost of sales  decreased by 0.7%,
to 82.2% in 1995 from 82.9% in 1994.  This  improvement  resulted from proactive
efforts to maintain  sales  prices and control  costs,  higher  margins on homes
closed on internally  developed  lots, and  miscellaneous  land/lot  sales.  The
Company does not capitalize pre-opening costs for new subdivisions.

  Selling,  general and  administrative  (SG&A) expense  increased by 14.0%,  to
$44.5 million in 1995 from $39.1  million in 1993.  The increase in SG&A expense
was due largely to the increases in sales and construction  activity required to
sustain the higher levels of revenues.  SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues
increased  by 0.3%,  to 10.2% in 1995  from  9.9% in 1994,  due  partly to costs
associated  with  expansion  into  new  markets  which  had  not  yet  generated
significant revenues.

  Interest expense totalled $1.2 million in 1995,  compared to none in 1994. The
Company  follows a policy  of  capitalizing  interest  only on  inventory  under
construction  or  development.  During 1995,  the Company  expensed a portion of
incurred interest and other financing costs due to increased levels of developed
lots and finished homes. During the 1994 period, all such costs were capitalized
in inventory.  Capitalized  interest and other  financing  costs are included in
cost of sales at the time of home closings.

  Other income, which consisted mainly of interest income and pretax earnings of
DRH Title Company of Texas,  Ltd. in 1995,  increased to $621,000 in 1995,  from
$446,000 in 1994.

  The provision for income taxes increased  10.0%, to $12.0 million in 1995 from
$10.9  million in 1994,  due primarily to the  corresponding  increase in income
before  income taxes.  The  effective  tax rate  decreased to 36.9% in 1995 from
38.2% in 1994. As a percentage of revenues,  the income tax provision  decreased
by 0.1% to 2.7% in 1995.  The decreases in the effective tax rate and in the tax
provision  as a  percentage  of revenues  were due  primarily  to the effects of
certain tax planning strategies relating to state income taxes.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  The Company believes it has adequate financial resources and sufficient credit
lines to meet its working  capital needs. At September 30, 1996, the Company had
available cash and cash  equivalents of $32.5  million.  Inventories  (including
finished  homes and  construction  in progress,  residential  lots developed and



under  development,  and land) had increased by 22.0%, to $345.3  million,  from
$282.9  million at September 30, 1995.  The increase was due to higher  business
activity  and the fact that the Company  was  operating  in a greater  number of
markets  and  subdivisions.  In several  markets,  the Company is limited in its
ability to acquire  finished  lots under option  contracts,  which results in an
increase in  residential  lot  inventory.  The Company  financed  the  inventory
increase by borrowing under credit facilities, retaining earnings, and the $43.2
million net proceeds of a public stock  offering in January 1996.  The Company's
ratio of notes  payable to total  capital  decreased to 48.9% at  September  30,
1996,  from  61.6% at  September  30,  1995.  The equity to total  assets  ratio
increased  during  the  year to 44.1%  at  September  30,  1996,  from  33.3% at
September 30, 1995.

  The Company's financing needs depend upon the results of its operations, sales
volume,   inventory  levels,  inventory  turnover,  and  acquisitions  of  other
homebuilding  companies.  The Company has financed its  operations  by borrowing
from financial  institutions,  by retaining earnings and from the sale of common
stock.  Common stock options exercised in 1994, 1995 and 1996,  provided funding
of $0.9 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively.

  Beginning in 1994, the Company began  acquiring the principal  assets of other
homebuilding  companies,  and had made three acquisitions  through September 30,
1996.  Two  additional  acquisitions  were  completed in October and December of
1996, the first three months of the  Company's  1997 fiscal  year.  To date, all
acquisitions  have been for cash with the  assumption  of  certain  liabilities,
typically trade accounts and notes payable.  The  acquisitions  have been funded
through working capital and borrowings under existing credit facilities.

  During April 1996,  the Company  entered a new facility  with eight  financial
institutions to provide unsecured borrowings. At September 30, 1996, the Company
had outstanding debt of $169.9 million.  The majority of that amount  represents
borrowings  under the terms of the  Company's  new $260 million  unsecured  bank
credit facility,  which has multi-year terms. The Company also has $47.5 million
in additional  borrowing capacity under separate unsecured bank revolving credit
facilities with annual terms.  The completion of the public sale of common stock
in January 1996 and the new credit facilities  provide the Company with a strong
financial position, with resources adequate to fund near-term growth objectives.

  To secure the Company's  performance  under its  contractual  development  and
building  obligations,  the Company  obtained  performance  bonds and letters of
credit for the benefit of third parties (principally municipalities in which the
Company conducts homebuilding  activities)  approximating $21.7 million and $5.2
million, respectively, at September 30, 1996.

  The  Company's  rapid  growth  requires  significant  amounts  of cash.  It is
anticipated  that  future  home   construction,   lot  and  land  purchases  and
acquisitions  will be  funded  through  internally  generated  funds and new and
existing lending  relationships.  The Company continuously evaluates its capital
structure  and in the  future,  may seek to increase  unsecured  debt and obtain
additional  equity to further solidify the capital structure or to provide funds
for acquisitions.

  Except for  ordinary  expenditures  for the  construction  of homes and,  to a
limited  extent,  the  acquisition of land and lots for  development and sale of
homes,  at  September  30,  1996,  the Company had no material  commitments  for
capital expenditures.

 Inflation

  The Company, as well as the homebuilding industry in general, may be adversely
affected during periods of high inflation,  primarily because of higher land and
construction costs. Inflation also increases the Company's financing,  labor and
material costs. In addition, higher mortgage interest rates significantly affect
the affordability of permanent mortgage financing to prospective homebuyers. The
Company  attempts to pass through to its  customers  any  increases in its costs
through  increased  sales prices and, to date,  inflation has not had a material
adverse  effect on the Company's  results of  operations.  However,  there is no
assurance  that  inflation  will  not  have a  material  adverse  impact  on the
Company's future results of operations.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors
D.R. Horton, Inc.

  We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance   sheets of  D. R.
Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period  ended  September  30,  1996.  These  financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

  We  conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of D. R. Horton, Inc.
and subsidiaries at September 30, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of
their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  September 30, 1996,  in conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.

                                                     /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

November 8, 1996
Fort Worth, Texas



                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE A -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Business.  The Company is engaged  primarily in the  construction  and sale of
single-family  housing in 19 states in the United States.  The Company  designs,
builds and sells single-family  houses on finished lots which it purchases ready
for home construction or which it develops.  The Company  purchases  undeveloped
land to develop into  finished  lots for future  construction  of  single-family
houses  and for sale to others.  The  Company  also  provides  title  agency and
mortgage services in selected markets; however, such activities are not material
to the consolidated operating results of the Company.

  Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of D.R. Horton, Inc. (the Company) and its subsidiaries, all of
which are wholly owned. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

  Accounting  Principles:  The preparation of financial statements in accordance
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that affect the amounts  reported in the  financial
statements  and  accompanying  notes.  Actual  results  could  differ from those
estimates.

  Statements of Financial  Accounting  Standards:  During the fourth  quarter of
1996, the Company elected to adopt Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 121 "Accounting  for the Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be  Disposed  Of" ("FAS  121")  retroactive  to October  1, 1995.  The
adoption  of FAS 121 did not  impact the  Company's  results  of  operations  or
financial  position and did not result in a restatement  of any of the financial
results for fiscal 1996. The Company  believes the adoption of FAS 121 would not
have had an effect on financial results in fiscal 1995 and 1994 had FAS 121 been
adopted in those years.

  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 123  "Accounting  for Stock-
Based Compensation" ("FAS 123"), issued in October 1995,  establishes  financial
accounting and reporting standards for stock-based employee  compensation plans.
As permitted  by FAS 123, the Company has elected to continue to use  Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB
25) and related  Interpretations,  in accounting for its Stock  Incentive  Plan.
Refer to Note F.

  Cash:  The Company  considers  all highly liquid  investments  with an initial
maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.  Amounts
in transit from title companies for home closings are included in cash.

  Cost of Sales: Cost of sales includes home warranty costs, purchased discounts
for customer financing, and sales commissions paid to third parties.

  Fair Value of Financial  Instruments:  The fair value of financial instruments
is determined by reference to various market data and other valuation techniques
as  appropriate.  The carrying  amounts of cash and cash  equivalents  and trade
payables approximate fair value because of the short maturity of these financial
instruments.  Generally,  the homebuilding  notes payable bear interest at rates
indexed to LIBOR or the Federal Funds rate.  Therefore,  the carrying amounts of
the  outstanding  borrowings at September 30, 1996,  approximate  fair value. At
both  September  30, 1996 and 1995,  the  estimated  fair value of the Company's
debt,   including  the  interest  rate  swap  agreement  described  in  Note  B,
approximated its carrying value.

  Fair value  estimates  are made at  specific  points in time based on relevant
market  information  and  information  about  the  financial  instrument.  These
estimates are subjective in nature and involve matters of significant  judgment,
and therefore, cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could
significantly affect estimates.




                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Inventories:   Inventories   are  stated  at  the  lower  of  cost   (specific
identification  method) or net  realizable  value.  In  addition  to direct land
acquisition,  land development and direct housing construction costs,  inventory
costs include interest and real estate taxes, which are capitalized in inventory
during  the  development  and   construction   periods.   Residential  lots  are
transferred  to  construction  in progress when building  permits are requested.
Land and development costs,  capitalized interest and real estate taxes incurred
during land development are allocated to individual lots on a prorata basis.

  Interest.   The  Company   capitalizes   interest  during   development  and
construction.  Capitalized  interest  is charged to cost of sales as the related
inventory is delivered to the home buyer. The summary of interest for 1994, 1995
and 1996 is:



  Property  and  Equipment:   Property  and  equipment,   including  model  home
furniture,  are stated on the basis of cost. Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized.  Repairs and  maintenance  are expensed as  incurred.  Depreciation
generally is provided using the  straight-line  method over the estimated useful
life of the asset.  Accumulated depreciation was $3,481,000 and $5,000,000 as of
September 30, 1995 and 1996, respectively.

  Excess of Cost Over Net  Assets  Acquired:  The  excess  of  amounts  paid for
business  acquisitions  over  the net  fair  value of the  assets  acquired  and
liabilities  assumed is  amortized  using the  straight-line  method over twenty
years.  Additional  consideration  paid in subsequent periods under the terms of
purchase agreements are included as acquisition costs.  Amortization expense was
$42,000, $114,000 and $188,000 in 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively. Accumulated
amortization  was  $156,000  and  $344,000  at  September  30,  1995  and  1996,
respectively.

  Revenue Recognition: Revenue generally is recognized at the time of the
closing of a sale, when title to and possession of the property transfer to
the buyer.

  Net Income Per Share: Net income per share is based upon the average number of
shares of common  stock  outstanding  during  each year and the effect of common
stock equivalents related to dilutive stock options.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


NOTE B -- NOTES PAYABLE

  Notes payable (in thousands):



  Maturities of notes  payable,  assuming the revolving  lines of credit are not
extended,  are $10.3  million in 1997,  $0.4 million in 1998,  $59.2  million in
1999,  and $100.0  million  in 2001.  The  weighted  average  interest  rates at
September 30, 1995 and 1996 were 7.9% and 7.5%, respectively.

  In addition to the stated interest rates,  various credit  facilities  require
the Company to pay certain fees. The $250 million credit  facility also provides
$10 million for use as letters of credit. Effective October 1, 1996, there was a
reduction in the interest rate on the revolving  portion of $250 million  credit
facility.  Certain of the notes and loan agreements contain financial  covenants
generally  relating to cash dividends,  minimum  interest  coverage,  net worth,
leverage, inventory levels and other matters.

  The Company uses an interest  rate swap  agreement to help manage a portion of
its interest rate  exposure.  The  agreement  converts from a variable rate to a
fixed rate on a notional  amount of $100 million.  The  agreement  expires April
2001. The Company does not expect  non-performance by the counterparty,  and any
losses  incurred in the event of  non-performance  would not be  material.  As a
result of this  agreement,  the Company  incurred net  interest  expense of $0.4
million during 1996. Net payments or receipts under the Company's  interest rate
swap agreement are recorded as adjustments to interest expense.

NOTE C -- ACQUISITIONS

  In 1994 and 1995, the Company made the following acquisitions:



  Consideration  includes cash paid,  promissory notes and assumption of certain
accounts  payable  and  notes  payable  which  were  repaid  subsequent  to  the
acquisitions.

  The acquisitions  contain  provisions for additional  consideration to be paid
annually for up to three years  subsequent to the acquisition  date,  based upon
subsequent pretax income.  Such additional  consideration  will be recorded when
paid as excess  cost over net  assets  acquired,  which is  amortized  using the
 


                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

straight line method over 20 years.  All of the acquired  companies are involved
in  homebuilding  and land  development.  The  Company has  accounted  for these
acquisitions  under the purchase  method and has included the  operations of the
acquired  businesses  in its  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  since  their
acquisition.

  The Company's unaudited pro forma summary  consolidated  results of operations
as if the above noted acquisitions had occurred at October 1, 1995 are presented
below. In preparing the pro forma information, various assumptions were made and
the Company does not purport this  information  to be  indicative  of what would
have occurred had the acquisitions been made as of October 1, 1995.



NOTE D -- STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

  The Board of Directors  of the Company  declared  the  following  common stock
dividends:



  Stock  Split:  On August 15, 1995,  the Board of  Directors  declared a seven-
for-five  stock split effected in the form of a 40% stock dividend on its common
stock.  Accordingly,  the $.01 par value for the additional  shares  issued,  in
respect of the  seven-for-five  stock split,  was  transferred  from  additional
paid-in-capital to common stock.

  Net income per share and weighted  average shares  outstanding for all periods
presented have been restated to reflect the stock dividends and the stock split.
Other  than  as  required  to  maintain  the  financial  ratios  and  net  worth
requirements  under the  credit  agreements,  there are no  restrictions  on the
payment of cash dividends by the Company.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


NOTE E -- PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

  Deferred  income taxes  reflect the net tax effects of  temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes  and the  amounts  used for  income  tax  purposes.  These  differences
primarily  relate to the  capitalization  of  inventory  costs,  the  accrual of
warranty  costs,  and  depreciation.  The  Company's  deferred  tax  assets  and
liabilities are not significant.

  The  difference  between  income tax expense and tax  computed by applying the
federal statutory income tax rate to income before taxes is due primarily to the
effect of applicable state income taxes. Income tax expense consists of:



NOTE F -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  The D.R.  Horton,  Inc.  Profit Sharing Plus Plan is a 401(k) plan for Company
employees. The Company matches 50% of employees' voluntary contributions up to a
maximum of 3% of each participant's earnings.  Additional employer contributions
in the form of profit sharing are at the discretion of the Company. Expenses for
this  Plan  were  $158,000,  $233,000  and  $327,000  for  1994,  1995 and 1996,
respectively.

  Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company  adopted the D.R.  Horton,  Inc. Stock
Tenure  Plan (an  Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan),  covering  those  employees
generally  not  participating  in  certain  other  D.R.  Horton  benefit  plans.
Contributions  are made at the discretion of the Company.  Expenses of $110,000,
$106,000 and $229,000 were  recognized  for 1994,  1995 and 1996,  respectively,
related to Company contributions of common stock to the Plan.

  The  Company's   Supplemental   Executive   Retirement   Plans   (SERP's)  are
non-qualified  deferred  compensation  programs that provide benefits payable to
certain  management   employees  upon  retirement,   death,  or  termination  of
employment  with the  Company.  SERP No. 1 provides  for  voluntary  deferral of
compensation  which is invested under a trust  agreement.  All salary  deferrals
under this Plan have been accrued and the  investments  are recorded as an other
asset. Under SERP No. 2, the Company accrues an unfunded benefit,  as well as an
interest  factor  based  upon a  predetermined  formula.  The  Company  recorded
$231,000,  $347,000  and  $313,000 of expense  for SERP No. 2 in 1994,  1995 and
1996, respectively.

  In 1996, the Company approved the D.R.  Horton, Inc.  Employee Stock  Purchase
Plan which  allows  employees to purchase  stock  directly from  the Company  at
market value.

  At September 30, 1996,  237,500  shares of common stock have been reserved for
future issuance under the stock tenure and stock purchase plans.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


  The D.R.  Horton,  Inc. 1991 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of
stock  options to certain key  employees  of the  Company to purchase  shares of
common  stock.  Options are granted at exercise  prices  which  approximate  the
market value of the  Company's  common  stock at the date of the grant.  Options
generally  expire 10 years  after the dates on which they were  granted and vest
evenly over the life of the option.  At September 30, 1996,  3,034,250 shares of
common stock have been reserved for future  issuance  under this plan.  Activity
under the plan is:



  Exercise  prices for options  outstanding  at September 30, 1996,  ranged from
$1.804 to $10.185.  The weighted average  remaining  contractual  lives of those
options are as follows:



  The Company has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25
in  accounting  for its  employee  stock  options.  The  exercise  price  of the
Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock
on the date of grant, therefore, no compensation expense is recognized.

  Application of the fair value method, as specified by FAS 123, had no material
impact on net income or net income per share  amounts.  However,  such pro forma
effects  are not  indicative  of  future  fair  value  effects  until  the rules
stipulated by FAS 123 are applied to all outstanding, nonvested awards.

NOTE G -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

  The Company is involved in lawsuits  and other  contingencies  in the ordinary
course of business.  Management believes that, while the ultimate outcome of the
contingencies  cannot be predicted with certainty,  the ultimate  liability,  if
any,  will  not  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  financial
position.

  In the ordinary course of business,  the Company enters into option agreements
to purchase land and developed lots.  Deposits of approximately  $5.0 million at
September 30, 1996, secure the Company's performance under these agreements.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


  The Company leases office space under noncancelable  operating leases. Minimum
annual  lease   payments   under  these  leases  at  September  30,  1996,   are
approximately:



  Rent expense approximated  $840,000,  $989,000 and $1,140,000,  for 1994, 1995
and 1996, respectively.

  In the normal course of its business activities,  the Company provides letters
of credit and performance bonds,  issued by third parties, to secure performance
under various contracts.  At September 30, 1996,  outstanding  letters of credit
totalled $5.2 million and performance bonds totalled $21.7 million.

NOTE H -- QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

  Quarterly results of operations are:


- --------
(1) Net income per share differs from that previously reported due to the effect
    of the 1996 eight percent stock dividend.



                      D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


NOTE I -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

  In October and  December  1996,  the Company  acquired  substantially  all the
assets of two homebuilding  companies,  Trimark  Communities  L.L.C., in Denver,
Colorado and SGS Communities,  Inc., in North Central New Jersey,  respectively.
Total  consideration for these  acquisitions was $31 million which includes cash
paid, and the  assumption of certain  accounts  payable and notes  payable.  The
acquisitions contain provisions for additional consideration to be paid annually
for up to four  years  based  upon  subsequent  pretax  income  of the  acquired
businesses.  Any such  additional  consideration  will be recorded  when paid as
excess cost over net assets  acquired which will be amortized on a straight line
method  over 20  years.  These  acquisitions  will be  accounted  for  under the
purchase  method  and  their  operations  will  be  included  in  the  Company's
Consolidated Statements of Income from the date of their acquisition.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

  None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The information required by this item is set forth under the caption "Election
of Directors" at pages 2 through 4 of the  registrant's  Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 23, 1997, and  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  The  information  required  by  this  item  is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Executive  Compensation"  at  pages  6 and 7  of  the  registrant's  Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 23, 1997,
and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  The  information  required  by  this  item  is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Beneficial  Ownership  of Common  Stock"  at page 5 of the  registrant's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 23,
1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  The  information  required  by  this  item  is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Executive  Compensation  --  Transactions  with  Management"  at page 11 of the
registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on January 23, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

 1. Financial Statements:

  See Item 8 above.

 2. Financial Statement Schedules:

  Schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
of the Securities and Exchange  Commission (the  "Commission")  are not required
under the related  instructions or are not  applicable,  and therefore have been
omitted.



 3. Exhibits:


- --------
(1) Incorporated by reference from the  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1995,  filed with the Commission on
    November 22, 1995.
(2) Incorporated by reference from the  Registrant's  Transition  Report on Form
    10-K for the period from January 1, 1993 to September  30, 1993,  filed with
    the Commission on December 28, 1993.



(3) Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Registration Statement on
    Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46554) declared effective by the Commission
    on June 4, 1992.
(4) Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
(5) Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Annual Report Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1994,  filed with the Commission on
    December 9, 1994.
(6) Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Registration Statement on
    Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-81856) filed with the Commission on July 22,
    1994.
(7) Incorporated by reference from the  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended  December 31, 1992,  filed with the  Commission on
    March 29, 1993.
(8) Filed herewith.



                                  SIGNATURES

  Pursuant  to the  requirements  of the  Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Acts of 1934,  the  registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: November 21, 1996                   D.R. HORTON, INC.


                                          By       /s/ Donald R. Horton
                                             ----------------------------------
                                                     Donald R. Horton,
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                         President

  Pursuant to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                             CORPORATE INFORMATION

  D.R. Horton, Inc. (the "Company") is engaged primarily in the construction
and sale of single-family homes. The Company offers high-quality homes with
custom features, designed principally for the entry-level and move-up
segments.

  Horton has established a unique marketing niche,  offering a broader selection
of homes that typically have more amenities and greater design  flexibility than
homes offered by volume  builders,  at prices that are generally more affordable
than those  charged by local  custom  builders.  Horton homes range in size from
1,000 to 5,000 square feet and are priced from $80,000 to $600,000. For the year
ended  September 30, 1996,  the Company closed 3,284 homes with an average sales
price of approximately $166,600.

  The  Company  is  geographically  diversified,  operating  in 21 states and 26
markets. Plans call for continued expansion in current markets, as well as entry
into new markets that have  significant  entry-level and move-up market segments
consistent with the Company's product and pricing strategy.

  THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

                                               TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
  DONALD R. HORTON
  Chairman and President (2)                   Society National Bank
                                               Cleveland, Ohio

  RICHARD BECKWITT
  President -- Investments Division (2)        INVESTOR RELATIONS


  RICHARD I. GALLAND                           David J. Keller
  Former Chief Executive Officer and           D.R. Horton, Inc.
  Chairman of Fina, Inc. (1) (2)               1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100
                                               Arlington, Texas 76006
                                               (817) 856-8200


  RICHARD L. HORTON
  Vice President -- Dallas/Fort Worth
  East Division
                                               ANNUAL MEETING
  TERRILL J. HORTON
  Vice President -- Dallas/Fort Worth
  North Division
                                               January 23, 1997 9:30 a.m. C.S.T.


  DAVID J. KELLER
  Executive Vice President, Treasurer and      At the Corporate Offices of
  Chief Financial Officer (2)                  D.R. Horton, Inc.
                                               1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100
                                               Arlington, Texas 76006
  FRANCINE I. NEFF
  Former Treasurer of the United States (1)

  SCOTT J. STONE
  Former Vice President -- Eastern Region

  DONALD J. TOMNITZ
  President -- Homebuilding Division
- --------
(1) Audit Committee Member
(2) Compensation Committee Member


