10-K


d92481e10-k.htm

FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001

D.R. Horton Inc Form 10-K


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission File Number 1-14122

D.R. HORTON, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K

o

.

As of November 14, 2001, there were
76,909,368 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per
share, issued and outstanding, and the aggregate market value of
these shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
approximately $1,647,739,000. Solely for purposes of this
calculation, all directors and executive officers were excluded
as affiliates of the registrant.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated herein by reference in Part III.



PART 1

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

D.R. Horton, Inc. (the “Company”)
is a national homebuilder. As such, we construct and sell
single-family homes in metropolitan areas of the Mid-Atlantic,
Midwest, Southeast, Southwest and West regions of the United
States. We offer high quality homes, designed principally for
first-time and move-up home buyers. Our homes generally range in
size from 1,000 to 5,000 square feet and range in price
from $80,000 to $900,000. For the year ended September 30,
2001, we closed 21,371 homes with an average sales price
approximating $200,700.

We are one of the largest and most geographically
diversified homebuilders in the United States, with operating
divisions in 20 states and 38 markets as of
September 30, 2001. The markets we operate in include:
Albuquerque, Atlanta, Austin, Birmingham, Charleston, Charlotte,
Chicago, Columbia, Dallas, Denver, Fort Myers/ Naples,
Fort Worth, Greensboro, Greenville, Hilton Head, Houston,
Jacksonville, Killeen, Las Vegas, Los Angeles,
Louisville, Maryland-D.C., Miami/ West Palm Beach, Minneapolis/
St. Paul, Myrtle Beach, New Jersey, Orlando, Phoenix,
Portland, Raleigh/ Durham, Richmond, Sacramento, Salt Lake City,
San Antonio, San Diego, Tucson, Virginia-D.C. and
Williamsburg.

We build homes under the following names:
D.R. Horton, Arappco, Cambridge, Continental, Dietz Crane,
Dobson, Emerald, Mareli, Milburn, Regency, SGS, Torrey and
Trimark.

Our financial reporting segments consist of
homebuilding and financial services. Our homebuilding operations
comprise the most substantial part of our business, with more
than 98% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001.
The homebuilding operations segment generates the majority of
its revenues from the sale of completed homes with a lesser
amount from the sale of land and lots. The financial services
segment generates its revenues from originating and selling
mortgages and collecting fees for title insurance and closing
services. Financial information, including revenue, pre-tax
income and identifiable assets of both of our reporting segments
are included in the consolidated financial statements.

We were incorporated in Delaware on July 1,
1991, to acquire all of the assets and businesses of
25 predecessor companies, which were residential home
construction and development companies owned or controlled by
Donald R. Horton.

Our principal executive offices are located at
1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100, Arlington, Texas
76006, our telephone number is (817) 856-8200, and our
Internet website address is www.drhorton.com.



Operating Strategy

We believe that the following operating
strategies have enabled us to achieve consistent growth and
profitability:

Geographic Diversity

From 1978 to late 1987, excluding locations
acquired in our 1998 merger with Continental Homes, our
homebuilding activities were conducted in the Dallas/
Fort Worth area. We then instituted a policy of
diversifying geographically, entering the following of our
current markets, both through startup operations and
acquisitions, in the years shown:

We continually monitor the sales and margins
achieved in each of the subdivisions in which we operate as part
of our evaluation of the use of our capital. While we believe
there are significant growth opportunities in our existing
markets, we also intend to continue our policy of
diversification by seeking to enter new markets. We believe our
diversification strategy mitigates the effects of local and
regional economic cycles and enhances our growth potential.
Typically, we will not invest material amounts in real estate,
including raw land, developed lots, models and speculative
homes, or overhead in start-up operations in new markets, until
such markets demonstrate significant growth potential and
acceptance of our products.

Acquisitions

As an integral component of our operational
strategy of continued expansion, we continually evaluate
opportunities for strategic acquisitions. We believe that
expanding our operations through the acquisition of existing
homebuilding companies affords us several benefits not found in
start-up operations. Such benefits include:

In evaluating potential acquisition candidates,
we seek homebuilding companies that have an excellent
reputation, a track record of profitability and a strong
management team with an entrepreneurial orientation.



We limit the risks associated with acquiring a
going concern by conducting extensive operational, financial and
legal due diligence on each acquisition and by only acquiring
homebuilding companies that we believe will have an immediate
positive impact on our earnings. During the last eight fiscal
years, we have made 16 acquisitions, including the assets of
Fortress-Florida, Inc. (Fortress) and Emerald Builders (Emerald)
in May and July, 2001, respectively. For the year ended
December 31, 2000, Fortress, which operates in the
Jacksonville, Florida market, closed 711 homes, generating
revenues of approximately $99 million. For the year ended
December 31, 2000, Emerald, with operations primarily in
Houston, Texas and Phoenix, Arizona, closed 1,394 homes,
generating revenues of approximately $236 million. In
October, 2001, we signed a definitive agreement under which
Schuler Homes (NASDAQ:SHLR) will merge into D.R. Horton,
Inc., through a cash and stock transaction valued at
approximately $1.2 billion, including the assumption of
debt. We will continue to evaluate potential future acquisition
opportunities that satisfy our acquisition criteria in both
existing and new markets.

Decentralized Operations

We decentralize our homebuilding activities to
give more operating flexibility to our local division
presidents. We have 45 separate operating divisions, some
of which are in the same market area. Generally, each operating
division consists of a division president, an office manager and
staff, a sales manager and sales personnel, and a construction
manager and construction superintendents. We believe that
division presidents, who are intimately familiar with local
conditions, make better decisions regarding local operations.
Our division presidents receive performance bonuses based upon
achieving targeted operating levels in their operating divisions.

Operating Division Responsibilities

Each operating division is responsible for:

•

Site selection, which involves

Corporate Office Controls

The corporate office controls key risk elements
through centralized:



Cost Management

We control our overhead costs by centralized
administrative and accounting functions and by limiting the
number of field administrative personnel and middle level
management positions. We also minimize advertising costs by
participating in promotional activities, publications and
newsletters sponsored by local real estate brokers, mortgage
companies, utility companies and trade associations.

We control construction costs through the
efficient design of our homes and by obtaining favorable pricing
from certain subcontractors and national vendors based on the
high volume of services and products they provide us. We also
control construction costs by monitoring expenses on each house
through our purchase order system. We control capital and
overhead costs by monitoring our inventory levels through our
management information systems.

Markets

We conduct homebuilding activities in five
geographic regions, consisting of:

When entering new markets or conducting
operations in existing markets, among the things we
consider are:



Our homebuilding revenues by geographic region
are:

Land Policies

Typically, we acquire land and enter into lot
option contracts to acquire developed building lots only after
necessary “entitlements” have been obtained,

i.e.,

when we have the right to begin development or
construction. Before we acquire lots or tracts of land, we will,
among other things, complete a feasibility study, which includes
soil tests, independent environmental studies and other
engineering work, and determine that all necessary zoning and
other governmental entitlements required to develop and use the
property for home construction have been acquired. Although we
purchase and develop land primarily to support our own
homebuilding activities, occasionally we sell lots and land to
other developers and homebuilders.

We also use lot option contracts, in which we
purchase the right, but not the obligation, to buy building lots
at predetermined prices on a takedown schedule commensurate with
anticipated home closings. Lot option contracts generally are on
a nonrecourse basis, thereby limiting our financial exposure to
earnest money deposits given to property sellers. This enables
us to control significant lot positions with a minimal capital
investment and substantially reduces the risks associated with
land ownership and development. At September 30, 2001,
about 46% of our total lot position of 115,655 lots was under
option contracts.

A summary of our land/lot position at
September 30, 2001 is:

We limit our exposure to real estate inventory
risks by:



Construction

Our home designs are prepared by architects in
each of our markets to appeal to local tastes and preferences of
the community. We also offer optional interior and exterior
features to enhance the basic home design and to promote our
sales efforts.

Substantially all of our construction work is
performed by subcontractors. Our construction supervisors
monitor the construction of each home, participate in material
design and building decisions, coordinate the activities of
subcontractors and suppliers, subject the work of subcontractors
to quality and cost controls and monitor compliance with zoning
and building codes. Subcontractors typically are retained for a
specific subdivision pursuant to a contract that obligates the
subcontractor to complete construction at a fixed price.
Agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers generally are
negotiated for each subdivision. We compete with other
homebuilders for qualified subcontractors, raw materials and
lots in the markets where we operate.

Construction time for our homes depends on the
weather, availability of labor, materials and supplies, size of
the home, and other factors. We typically complete the
construction of a home within four months.

We do not maintain significant inventories of
construction materials, except for work in process materials for
homes under construction. Typically, the construction materials
used in our operations are readily available from numerous
sources. We have contracts exceeding one year with certain
suppliers of our building materials that are cancellable at our
option with a 30 day notice. In recent years, we have not
experienced any significant delays in construction due to
shortages of materials or labor.

Marketing and Sales

We market and sell our homes through commissioned
employees and independent real estate brokers. We typically
conduct home sales from sales offices located in furnished model
homes in each subdivision. At September 30, 2001, we owned
942 model homes, which we generally do not offer for sale until
the completion of a subdivision. Our sales personnel assist
prospective home buyers by providing them with floor plans,
price information, tours of model homes and the selection of
options and other custom features. We train and inform our sales
personnel as to the availability of financing, construction
schedules, and marketing and advertising plans.

In addition to using model homes, we typically
build a limited number of speculative homes in each subdivision
to enhance our marketing and sales activities. Construction of
these speculative homes also is necessary to satisfy the
requirements of relocated personnel and independent brokers, who
often represent home buyers requiring a completed home within
60 days. We sell a majority of these speculative homes
while they are under construction or immediately following
completion. The number of speculative homes is influenced by
local market factors, such as new employment opportunities,
significant job relocations, growing housing demand and the
length of time we have built in the market. Depending upon the
seasonality of each market, we attempt to limit our speculative
homes in each subdivision. At September 30, 2001, we
averaged less than five speculative homes, in various stages of
construction, in each subdivision.

We advertise on a limited basis in newspapers and
in real estate broker, mortgage company and utility
publications, brochures, newsletters and on billboards. In
addition, we use our Internet web site to market the location,
price range, and availability of our homes. To minimize
advertising costs, we attempt to operate in subdivisions in
conspicuous locations that permit us to take advantage of local
traffic patterns. We also believe that model homes play a
significant role in our marketing efforts. Consequently, we
expend significant effort in creating an attractive atmosphere
in our model homes.

Our sales contracts require a down payment of at
least $500. The contracts include a financing contingency which
permits customers to cancel if they cannot obtain mortgage
financing at prevailing interest rates within a specified
period, typically four to six weeks, and may include other
contingencies, such as the sale of an existing home. We include
a home sale in our sales backlog when the sales contract is
signed and we have received the initial down payment. We do not
recognize revenue upon the sale of a home until it is closed and
title passes to the home buyer. The average period between the
signing of a sales contract for a home and closing is
approximately three to five months.



Customer Service and Quality Control

Our operating divisions are responsible for
pre-closing, quality control inspections and responding to
customers’ post-closing needs. We believe that prompt and
courteous response to home buyers’ needs during and after
construction reduces post-closing repair costs, enhances our
reputation for quality and service, and ultimately leads to
significant repeat and referral business from the real estate
community and home buyers. We provide our home buyers with a
limited one-year warranty on workmanship and building materials.
The subcontractors who perform most of the actual construction
also provide us with warranties on workmanship and are generally
prepared to respond to us and the homeowner promptly upon
request. In most cases, we supplement our one-year warranty by
purchasing a ten-year limited warranty from a third party. To
cover our potential warranty obligations, we accrue an estimated
amount for future warranty costs.

Customer Financing

We provide mortgage financing services
principally to purchasers of homes we build and sell.
CH Mortgage, a wholly-owned subsidiary, provides mortgage
banking services in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia,
Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, North and
South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. DRH Mortgage, LLC, a
joint venture formed in 1998 with a third party, presently
provides services in California. On a combined basis, our
mortgage banking entities provided mortgage financing services
for about 61% of the homes closed during the year ended
September 30, 2001, in the markets served, compared to 51%
during the year ended September 30, 2000. We anticipate
expanding these mortgage activities to other markets in which we
conduct homebuilding operations.

In other markets where we currently do not
provide mortgage financing, we work with a variety of mortgage
lenders that make available to home buyers a range of
conventional mortgage financing programs. By making information
about these programs available to prospective home buyers and
maintaining a relationship with such mortgage lenders, we are
able to coordinate and expedite the entire sales transaction by
ensuring that mortgage commitments are received and that
closings take place on a timely and efficient basis.

Title Services

Through our subsidiaries, Century Title, Custom
Title, DRH Title Company of Texas, Ltd., DRH Title Company of
Florida, Inc., DRH Title Company of Minnesota, Inc., Metro Title
Company, Principal Title and Travis County Title Company, we
serve as a title insurance agent by providing title insurance
policies and closing services to purchasers of homes we build in
the Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, Maryland-D.C.,
Miami/ West Palm Beach, Minneapolis, Orlando, Phoenix,
San Antonio and Virginia-D.C. markets. We assume no
underwriting risk associated with these title policies.

Employees

At September 30, 2001, we employed
4,342 persons, of whom 1,095 were sales and marketing
personnel, 1,382 were executive, administrative and clerical
personnel, 1,326 were involved in construction, and 539 worked
in mortgage and title operations. The Company had fewer than 20
employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some of
the subcontractors which we use are represented by labor unions
or are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe
that our relations with our employees and subcontractors are
good.

Competition

The single family residential housing industry is
highly competitive and we compete in each of our markets with
numerous other national, regional and local homebuilders, often
with larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by such
homebuilders. Our homes compete on the basis of quality, price,
design, mortgage financing terms and location.



Governmental Regulation and Environmental
Matters

The housing, mortgage and title insurance
industries are subject to extensive and complex regulations. We
and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state
and local laws and regulations, including zoning, density and
development requirements, building, environmental, advertising
and consumer credit rules and regulations, as well as other
rules and regulations in connection with our development,
homebuilding, sales and financial services activities. These
include requirements affecting the development process, as well
as building materials to be used, building designs and minimum
elevation of properties. Our homes are inspected by local
authorities where required, and homes eligible for insurance or
guarantees provided by the FHA and VA are subject to inspection
by them. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
administering governmental authorities. This can delay or
increase the cost of development or homebuilding.

We also are subject to a variety of local, state
and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations
concerning protection of health and the environment. The
particular environmental laws for each site vary greatly
according to location, environmental condition and the present
and former uses of the site and adjoining properties. These
environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to incur
substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or
severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in
certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

Our internal mortgage activities and title
insurance agencies must also comply with various federal and
state laws, consumer credit rules and regulations and other
rules and regulations unique to such activities. Additionally,
mortgage loans and title activities originated under the FHA,
VA, FNMA and GNMA are subject to rules and regulations imposed
by those agencies.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

We own a 52,000 square foot office complex,
consisting of three single-story buildings of steel and brick
construction, located in Arlington, Texas, that serves as the
principal executive offices and houses one of the Dallas/
Fort Worth divisions. We also own a 37,000 square foot
one-story building in Atlanta, Georgia; a 22,864 square
foot building in Lakeville, Minnesota; two buildings in
Englewood, Colorado totaling 28,217 square feet; and a
16,000 square foot building in The Woodlands, Texas, that
serve as division offices for some of our operating divisions.
We lease approximately 438,000 square feet of space for our
other operating divisions under leases expiring between November
2001 and March 2011.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to routine litigation incidental
to our business. Such matters, if decided adversely to us, would
not, in the opinion of management, have a material adverse
effect upon our financial condition.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND
	RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our common stock (the “Common Stock”)
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“DHI”. The following table shows the high and low
sales prices for the Common Stock for the periods indicated, as
reported by the NYSE, adjusted for the 9% stock dividend of
September 29, 2000, and the 11% stock dividend of
March 23, 2001.

As of November 14, 2001, the closing price
was $26.02, and there were approximately 334 holders of record.
We have declared quarterly cash dividends of four cents per
share for fiscal 2000 and five cents per share for fiscal 2001.

The declaration of cash dividends is at the
discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among
other things, future earnings, cash flows, capital requirements,
our general financial condition and general business conditions.
We are required to comply with certain covenants contained in
the bank agreements and Senior Note and Senior Subordinated Note
indentures. The most restrictive of these requirements allows us
to pay cash dividends on common stock in an amount, on a
cumulative basis, not to exceed 50% of consolidated net income,
as defined, subject to certain other adjustments. Pursuant to
the most restrictive of these requirements, we had approximately
$392.5 million available for the payment of dividends and
the acquisition of our common stock at September 30, 2001.



ITEM 6.     SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial
data are derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements. The
data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements, related Notes thereto and other financial
data elsewhere herein. These historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the
future.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
	RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—
CONSOLIDATED

D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) provide homebuilding services in
20 states and 38 markets through its
45 homebuilding divisions. Through its financial services
operations, the Company also provides mortgage banking and title
agency services in many of these same markets.

Year Ended September 30, 2001 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 2000

Consolidated revenues increased 21.9%, to
$4,455.5 million in 2001 from $3,653.7 million in
2000, primarily due to increases in both home sales and
financial services revenues. The increase in home sales revenues
was attributable in part to $103.0 million in revenues
generated by Fortress-Florida, acquired in May 2001, and Emerald
Builders, acquired in July 2001.

Income before income taxes increased 31.9%, to
$407.8 million in 2001 from $309.2 million in 2000. As
a percentage of revenues, income before income taxes increased
0.7 percentage points, to 9.2%, from 8.5% in 2000,
primarily due to an increase in the gross profit percentage
achieved by the homebuilding segment, which was offset in part
by write-downs to estimated fair value of the carrying amounts
of the Company’s investments in start-up and emerging
growth companies and the decline in the fair value of the
Company’s interest rate swap agreements during
the year.

The consolidated provision for income taxes
increased 30.1%, to $152.9 million in 2001, from
$117.5 million in 2000, due to the corresponding increase
in income before income taxes. The effective income tax rate
decreased 0.5 percentage points, to 37.5% in 2001, from
38.0% in 2000, primarily due to changes in the overall effective
state income tax rate.

Year Ended September 30, 2000 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 1999

Consolidated revenues increased 15.8%, to
$3,653.7 million in 2000 from $3,156.2 million in 1999
due to increases in both home and land/lot sales revenues, as
well as financial services revenues.

Income before income taxes increased 17.2%, to
$309.2 million in 2000 from $263.8 million in 1999. As
a percentage of revenues, income before income taxes increased
0.1 percentage point, to 8.5% from 8.4% in 1999, primarily
due to an increase in homebuilding gross profit as a percentage
of revenues.

The consolidated provision for income taxes
increased 13.0%, to $117.5 million in 2000 from
$104.0 million in 1999, primarily due to the corresponding
increase in income before income taxes. The effective income tax
rate decreased 1.4 percentage points, to 38.0% in 2000 from
39.4% in 1999, primarily due to changes in the overall effective
state income tax rate.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—
HOMEBUILDING

The following tables set forth certain operating
and financial data for the Company’s homebuilding
activities:



Homes Closed

Net New Sales Contracts

Sales Backlog

The Company’s market regions consist of the
following markets:

Mid-Atlantic

Charleston, Charlotte, Columbia, Greensboro,
	Greenville, Hilton Head, Maryland-D.C., Myrtle Beach, New
	Jersey, Raleigh/ Durham, Richmond, Virginia-D.C. and Williamsburg

Midwest

Chicago, Louisville and Minneapolis/ St. Paul

Southeast

Atlanta, Birmingham, Fort Myers/ Naples,
	Jacksonville, Miami/ West Palm Beach and Orlando

Southwest

Albuquerque, Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth,
	Houston, Killeen, Phoenix, San Antonio and Tucson

West

Denver, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Portland,
	Sacramento, Salt Lake City and San Diego

Year Ended September 30, 2001 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 2000

Revenues from home sales increased 22.7%, to
$4,289.8 million (21,371 homes closed) in 2001 from
$3,496.1 million (19,144 homes closed) in 2000.
Revenues from home sales increased in four of the



Company’s five market regions, with
percentage increases ranging from 0.8% in the Midwest region to
53.4% in the West region. Home sales revenues declined 0.7% in
the Mid-Atlantic region. The increases in both revenues and
homes closed were due to strong housing demand throughout the
majority of the Company’s markets, and an increase in the
average selling price of homes closed, as well as the increases
attributable to the acquisition of Fortress-Florida in May 2001
and Emerald Builders in July 2001. In markets where the Company
operated throughout both twelve-month periods, home sales
revenues increased by 19.9%, to $4,188.7 million
(20,748 homes closed) in 2001 from $3,494.9 million
(19,138 homes closed) in 2000.

The average selling price of homes closed during
2001 was $200,700, up 9.9% from $182,600 in 2000. The increase
in average selling price was due to changes in the mix of homes
closed and, with the strong housing demand, the Company’s
ability to sell more custom features with its homes and to raise
prices in some of its markets.

The value of new net sales contracts increased
22.5%, to $4,502.6 million (22,179 homes) in 2001 from
$3,676.4 million (19,223 homes) in 2000. The value of
new net sales contracts increased in all of the Company’s
five market regions, with percentage increases ranging from 2.4%
in the Mid-Atlantic to 45.7% in the West. The overall increase
in the value of new net sales contracts was due to strong
housing demand throughout the majority of the Company’s
markets, as well as sales achieved by Fortress-Florida, acquired
in May 2001, and Emerald Builders, acquired in July 2001. In
markets where the Company operated throughout both fiscal years,
the value of new net sales contracts increased 19.5%, to
$4,391.0 million, and the number of new net sales contracts
increased 12.0%, to 21,518 homes. The average price of a new net
sales contract in 2001 was $203,000, up 6.1% over the $191,300
average in 2000. The increase in average selling price was due
to changes in the mix of homes sold and, with the strong housing
demand, the Company’s ability to sell more custom features
with its homes and to raise prices in some of its markets.

At September 30, 2001, the Company’s
backlog of sales contracts was $1,933.8 million
(9,263 homes), up 25.8% from $1,536.9 million
(7,388 homes) at September 30, 2000. In markets where
the Company operated at the end of both fiscal years, the
Company’s backlog of sales contracts increased 14.4%, to
$1,758.1 (8,229 homes). The average sales price of homes in
backlog was $208,800 at September 30, 2001, up 0.4% from
the $208,000 average at September 30, 2000.

Cost of sales increased by 19.9%, to
$3,527.1 million in 2001 from $2,941.1 million in
2000. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable
to the increase in revenues. Cost of home sales as a percentage
of home sales revenues declined 1.0 percentage point, to
80.4% in 2001, from 81.4% in 2000, as the Company continued to
benefit from increased prices, savings achieved in its national
purchasing program and lower material costs. Total homebuilding
cost of sales was 80.4% of total homebuilding revenue, down
1.2 percentage points from 81.6% in 2000.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expenses from homebuilding activities increased by 19.9%, to
$432.0 million in 2001 from $360.4 million in 2000. As
a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses decreased to 9.9% in
2001 from 10.0% in 2000, primarily as a result of a
0.2 percentage point decline in salaries and benefits
expense as a percentage of revenues.

Interest expense associated with homebuilding
activities decreased to $8.8 million in 2001 from
$10.2 million in 2000. As a percentage of homebuilding
revenues, homebuilding interest expense decreased to 0.2% in
2001 from 0.3% in 2000. Throughout 2001, inventory under
construction or development grew at a more rapid pace than
interest-bearing debt. Therefore, a larger proportion of total
interest incurred was capitalized to inventory than in 2000. The
Company follows a policy of capitalizing interest only on
inventory under construction or development. During both
periods, the Company expensed the portion of incurred interest
and other financing costs which could not be charged to
inventory. Capitalized interest and other financing costs are
included in cost of sales at the time of home closings.

Other expense associated with homebuilding
activities was $34.7 million in 2001, as compared to
$2.1 million of other income in 2000. The expense in 2001
is primarily due to a $22.9 million write-down to estimated
fair value of the carrying amounts of the Company’s
investments in start-up and emerging growth companies and a
$13.8 million decline in the fair value of the
Company’s interest rate swap agreements.



Year Ended September 30, 2000 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 1999

Revenues from home sales increased 14.4%, to
$3,496.1 million (19,144 homes closed) in 2000 from
$3,055.0 million (18,395 homes closed) in 1999.
Revenues from home sales increased in all of the Company’s
market regions, with percentage increases ranging from 8.5% in
the Southeast region to 28.7% in the Midwest region. The
increases in both revenues and homes closed were due to strong
housing demand and the increases attributable to the acquisition
of Cambridge Homes in January 1999. In markets where the Company
operated throughout both twelve-month periods, home sales
revenues increased by 12.3%, to $3,426.6 million, and the
number of homes closed increased 2.4%, to 18,826 homes.

The average selling price of homes closed during
2000 was $182,600, up 9.9% from $166,100 in 1999. The increase
in average selling price was due to changes in the mix of homes
closed and, with the strong housing demand, the Company’s
ability to sell more custom features with its homes and to raise
prices to cover increased costs.

The value of new net sales contracts increased
12.6%, to $3,676.4 million (19,223 homes) in 2000 from
$3,266.2 million (18,911 homes) in 1999. The value of
new net sales contracts increased in four of the Company’s
five market regions, with percentage increases ranging from 0.5%
in the Midwest to 35.4% in the West. The value of new net sales
contracts declined 4.3% in the Mid-Atlantic region. The overall
increase in the value of new net sales contracts was due in part
to sales achieved by Cambridge Homes, acquired in January 1999.
In markets where the Company operated throughout both fiscal
years, the value of new net sales contracts increased 10.6%, to
$3,607.7 million, and the number of new net sales contracts
increased 0.4%, to 18,976 homes. The average price of a new net
sales contract in 2000 was $191,300, up 10.8% over the $172,700
average in 1999. The increase in average selling price was due
to changes in the mix of homes sold and, with the strong housing
demand, the Company’s ability to sell more custom features
with its homes and to raise prices to cover increased costs.

At September 30, 2000, the Company’s
backlog of sales contracts was $1,536.9 million
(7,388 homes), up 13.3% from the comparable amount at
September 30, 1999. The average sales price of homes in
sales backlog was $208,000 at September 30, 2000, up 12.1%
from the $185,600 average at September 30, 1999.

Cost of sales increased by 15.4%, to
$2,941.1 million in 2000 from $2,548.5 million in
1999. The increase in cost of sales was primarily attributable
to the increase in revenues. Cost of home sales as a percentage
of home sales revenues declined 0.2 percentage points, to
81.4% in 2000 from 81.6% in 1999, as higher costs were more than
offset by increased prices and savings achieved in our national
purchasing program. Cost of land/lot sales decreased to 87.6% of
land/lot sales revenues in 2000, from 88.2% in 1999. Total
homebuilding cost of sales was 81.6% of total homebuilding
revenue, down 0.1 percentage point from 81.7% in 1999.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A)
expenses from homebuilding activities increased by 16.4%, to
$360.4 million in 2000 from $309.6 million in 1999. As
a percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 10.0%
in 2000 from 9.9% in 1999.

Interest expense associated with homebuilding
activities decreased to $10.2 million in 2000, from
$12.0 million in 1999. As a percentage of homebuilding
revenues, homebuilding interest expense decreased to 0.3% in
2000 from 0.4% in 1999. Throughout 2000, inventory under
construction or development grew at a more rapid pace than
interest-bearing debt. Therefore, a larger proportion of total
interest incurred was capitalized to inventory than in 1999. The
Company follows a policy of capitalizing interest only on
inventory under construction or development. During both
periods, we expensed the portion of incurred interest and other
financing costs which could not be charged to inventory.
Capitalized interest and other financing costs are included in
cost of sales at the time of home closings.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS— FINANCIAL
SERVICES

Financial services include mortgage financing and
title insurance agency and closing services, primarily related
to purchases of homes built and sold by the Company. Mortgage
services are provided in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico,
North and South Carolina, Texas and Virginia. Title agency and
closing services are provided in Arizona, Florida,



Maryland, Minnesota, Texas and Virginia. The
following table summarizes financial and other information for
the Company’s financial services operations:

Year Ended September 30, 2001 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 2000

Revenues from the financial services segment
increased 45.3%, to $72.0 million in 2001 from
$49.5 million in 2000. The increase in financial services
revenues was due to the continued expansion of the
Company’s mortgage loan and title services provided to
customers of the Company’s homebuilding segment. These
activities are being expanded to additional markets served by
the homebuilding segment. General and administrative expenses
associated with financial services increased 33.6%, to
$47.4 million in 2001 from $35.5 million in 2000. As a
percentage of financial services revenues, general and
administrative expenses decreased by 5.7 percentage points
to 65.9% in 2001 from 71.6% in 2000, primarily from efficiencies
realized with the increase in revenues generated in markets
entered in 2000.

Year Ended September 30, 2000 Compared
	to Year Ended September 30, 1999

Revenues from the financial services segment
increased 32.9% to $49.5 million in 2000 from
$37.3 million in 1999. The increase in financial services
revenues was due to the continued expansion of the
Company’s mortgage loan and title services provided to
customers of the Company’s homebuilding segment. General
and administrative expenses associated with financial services
increased 43.5%, to $35.5 million in 2000 from
$24.7 million in 1999. As a percentage of financial
services revenues, general and administrative expenses increased
by 5.3 percentage points to 71.6% in 2000 from 66.3% in
1999, due primarily to startup expenses in new markets with
limited revenues.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES

At September 30, 2001, the Company had
available cash and cash equivalents of $239.3 million.
Inventories (including finished homes, construction in progress,
and developed residential lots and other land) at
September 30, 2001, had increased by $613.3 million
from September 30, 2000, due to a general increase in
business activity, the acquisitions of Fortress-Florida and
Emerald Homes and the expansion of operations in the
Company’s market areas. The inventory increase was financed
largely by issuing senior notes, senior subordinated notes and
senior convertible notes, and by retaining earnings. The amount
outstanding on the revolving credit facility was reduced by
$192 million during the year. The Company’s ratio of
homebuilding notes payable to total capital at
September 30, 2001, increased 1.4 percentage points,
to 57.6% from 56.2% at September 30, 2000. After an assumed
application of excess cash of $157.3 million to reduce
debt, the ratio of homebuilding notes payable to total capital
declined 0.9 percentage points, to 55.3%. The
stockholders’ equity to total assets ratio decreased
1.8 percentage points, to 34.2% at September 30, 2001,
from 36.0% at September 30, 2000.



The Company has an $825 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, consisting of a $775 million
four-year revolving loan and a $50 million four-year letter
of credit facility that matures in April 2002. Additionally, the
Company has another $45 million standby letter of credit
agreement. The Company is currently negotiating the terms of a
new four-year unsecured revolving credit facility that is
expected to close in January 2002. At September 30, 2001,
the Company had outstanding homebuilding debt of
$1,701.7 million. Under the debt covenants associated with
the revolving credit facility, at September 30, 2001, the
Company had additional homebuilding borrowing capacity of
$746.8 million. The Company has entered into multi-year
interest rate swap agreements, aggregating a notional amount of
$200 million, that fix the interest rate on a portion of
the variable rate revolving credit facility.

In April 2001, a universal shelf registration
statement for an aggregate amount of $750 million was
filed. It was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange
Commission on April 20, 2001. Under the new shelf
registration statement, on May 11, 2001, the Company issued
$381.1 million (at maturity) in zero coupon convertible
senior notes due May 11, 2021, for gross proceeds of
$200 million. Each $1,000 note was sold for $524.78,
providing a yield-to-maturity of 3.25% per year. The notes
are convertible into the Company’s common stock at any
time, if the sale price of the common stock exceeds specified
thresholds or in other specified instances, at the rate of
approximately 17.5 shares per $1,000 face amount at
maturity. The conversion ratio equates to an initial conversion
price of $30.00 per share. Holders have the option to
require the Company to repurchase the notes on any of the
second, seventh or twelfth anniversary dates from the issue date
for the initial issue price plus accrued yield to the purchase
date. The Company must satisfy any notes submitted for
repurchase on the second anniversary date in cash. Any notes
submitted for repurchase on the seventh or twelfth anniversary
dates may be settled in any combination of cash and/or the
Company’s common stock, at the Company’s option. The
Company will have the option to redeem the notes, in cash, at
any time after the second anniversary date of the notes for the
initial issue price plus accrued yield to redemption. The
Company will pay contingent interest on the notes during
specified six-month periods beginning on May 12, 2003, if
the market price of the notes exceeds specified levels.

In March 2001, the Company issued
$200 million 9 3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes,
due March 15, 2011. In August 2001, the Company issued
$200 million 7 7/8% Senior Notes due
August 15, 2011. The Company used the proceeds from these
notes and the zero coupon convertible senior notes to repay
outstanding debt under its revolving credit facility and for
general corporate purposes.

In June 2001, the Company issued a post-effective
amendment to an existing registration statement, which increased
to 9.0 million the number of shares of the Company’s
common stock available for issuance as consideration for
acquisitions. The amendment was declared effective by the
Securities and Exchange Commission on June 18, 2001.

On May 1, 2001, the Company acquired the
assets of Fortress-Florida, Inc. (Fortress), a wholly owned
subsidiary of The Fortress Group, Inc., for $28.7 million.
Fortress assets, primarily inventories, amounted to
approximately $47.1 million. Total liabilities assumed
amounted to approximately $24.3 million, including notes
payable of $17.4 million, which were paid at closing. On
July 17, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of the
assets of Emerald Builders (Emerald), a privately held
homebuilder based in Houston, Texas. In the transaction, the
Company issued approximately 1.0 million shares of common
stock and paid $31.6 million in cash. Emerald’s
assets, primarily inventories, amounted to approximately
$170.4 million. Total liabilities assumed amounted to
approximately $137.0 million, including notes payable of
$110.6 million, most of which were paid at closing.

The Company examines the carrying value of its
excess cost over net assets acquired (goodwill) and other
intangible assets as current events and circumstances warrant to
determine whether there are any impairment losses. If indicators
of impairment were present in intangible assets used in
operations and future cash flows were not expected to be
sufficient to recover the assets’ carrying amount, an
impairment loss would be charged to expense in the period
identified. No event has been identified that would indicate an
impairment of the value of goodwill recorded in the consolidated
financial statements.

On October 23, 2001, the Company announced
that it has signed a definitive agreement under which Schuler
Homes, Inc. would merge into D. R. Horton, Inc. through a cash
and stock transaction valued at



approximately $1.2 billion, including the
assumption of debt. At September 30, 2001, Schuler had
consolidated assets, primarily inventories, of approximately
$1.2 billion. On a pro-forma basis combining Schuler with
Western Pacific, in the twelve-month period ended
September 30, 2001, Schuler closed 5,254 homes,
generating revenues of approximately $1.5 billion. This
merger is expected to close in January or February 2002, pending
approval by the shareholders of both companies. After the merger
is completed, the holders of Schuler’s public debt, under
change of control covenants thereof, will have the right to
require the Company to redeem such debt at 101% of par, plus
accrued interest. At September 30, 2001, Schuler’s
public debt amounted to $499 million. The Company expects
to finance the cash portion of the consideration, including any
required redemptions of public debt, with existing cash
resources and credit facilities. The Company’s assumption
of Schuler’s public debt will have the additional effect of
reducing the amount the Company has available for the payment of
cash dividends and other restricted payments.

At September 30, 2001, the financial
services segment had mortgage loans held for sale of
$222.8 million and loan commitments for $143.8 million
at fixed rates. The Company hedges the interest rate market risk
on these mortgage loans held for sale and loan commitments
through the use of best-efforts whole loan delivery commitments,
mandatory forward commitments to sell mortgage-backed securities
and the purchase of options on financial instruments.

The financial services segment has a
$200 million, one-year bank warehouse facility that matures
on August 13, 2002, and is secured by mortgage loans held
for sale. The warehouse facility is not guaranteed by the parent
company. As of September 30, 2001, $182.6 million had
been drawn under this facility. All mortgage company activities
are financed under the warehouse facility. The warehouse
facility contains financial covenants relating to minimum net
worth and maximum leverage with which the mortgage company is in
compliance.

The Company’s rapid growth and acquisition
strategy require significant amounts of cash. It is anticipated
that future home construction, lot and land purchases and
acquisitions will be funded through internally generated funds
and existing and future credit facilities. At September 30,
2001, under the currently effective shelf registration
statements, the Company has approximately 8.0 million
shares issuable to effect, in whole or in part, possible future
acquisitions and the capacity to issue new debt or equity
securities amounting to $350 million. In the future, the
Company intends to continue to maintain effective shelf
registration statements that will facilitate access to the
capital markets.

During fiscal 2001, the Company’s Board of
Directors declared one quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per
common share and three quarterly cash dividends of
$0.05 per common share, the last of which was paid on
August 22, 2001 to stockholders of record on August 8,
2001. At September 30, 2001, the Company has
$63.1 million authorized for stock repurchases and
$100.0 million authorized for dept repurchases.

In 1999 and 2000, the Company entered into three
separate limited partnership agreements with the purpose of
investing in start-up and emerging growth companies whose
technology and business plans have the potential of permitting
the Company to leverage its size, expertise and customer base in
the homebuilding industry. The Company originally authorized
investment of up to $125 million in such companies over a
four-year period. In January 2001, the original
$125 million authorization was reduced to the
$31.3 million that had been invested in such companies as
of that date. The investments are concentrated in e-commerce
businesses that serve the homebuilding, real estate and
financial service industries, as well as in businesses whose
strategic focus allows for the diversification of the
Company’s operations. As of September 30, 2001, the
carrying value of the Company’s investments in such
companies, reported in homebuilding other assets, amounted to
$10.2 million.

Except for the Schuler merger, ordinary
expenditures for the construction of homes, the acquisition of
land and lots for development and sale of homes, at
September 30, 2001, the Company had no material commitments
for capital expenditures.



INFLATION

The Company and the homebuilding industry in
general, may be adversely affected during periods of high
inflation, primarily because of higher land and construction
costs. Inflation also increases the Company’s financing,
labor and material costs. In addition, higher mortgage interest
rates significantly affect the affordability of permanent
mortgage financing to prospective homebuyers. The Company
attempts to pass through to its customers any increases in its
costs through increased sales prices and, to date, inflation has
not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results
of operations. However, there is no assurance that inflation
will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
future results of operations.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

Certain statements contained in this report, as
well as in other materials we have filed or will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, statements made by us in
periodic press releases and oral statements made by Company
officials to analysts, stockholders and the press in the course
of presentations about the Company, may be construed as
“forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any or all of the
forward-looking statements included in this report and in any
other reports or public statements of the Company may turn out
to be inaccurate due to known or unknown risks and
uncertainties. As a result, actual results may differ materially
from the results discussed in and anticipated by the
forward-looking statements. The following cautionary discussion
of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business includes
factors we believe could adversely affect us. Other factors
beyond those listed below could also adversely affect us.



•

Availability of
	Capital

—Our ability to grow our
	business and operations profitably is substantially dependent
	upon our ability to obtain capital from the sale of equity or
	debt or additional bank borrowings. Increases in interest rates,
	changes in our debt ratings by the national credit rating
	agencies, concerns by potential investors about the market or
	the economy, changing lending objectives of financial
	institutions, or further consolidation of financial institutions
	that lend to the homebuilding industry could increase our costs
	of borrowing or reduce the availability of funds necessary for
	us to achieve our strategic growth objectives. Moreover, the
	indentures for our outstanding debt contain provisions that may
	restrict the debt we may incur in the future.

•

Growth
	Strategies

—Since 1993, we have
	acquired and successfully integrated many homebuilding
	companies. In the future, we may acquire additional companies.
	Our prospects may be affected by our ability to successfully
	identify and integrate future acquisitions. Our prospects may
	also be affected by our ability to implement successfully our
	growth strategies in the markets we currently serve.

We undertake no obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. However, any further
disclosures made on related subjects in subsequent reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted.



ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is subject to interest rate risk on
its long term debt. The Company monitors its exposure to changes
in interest rates and utilizes both fixed and variable rate
debt. For fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally
affect the value of the debt instrument, but not the
Company’s earnings or cash flows. Conversely, for variable
rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the
fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect the
Company’s future earnings and cash flows. The Company has
mitigated its exposure to changes in interest rates on its
variable rate bank debt by entering into interest rate swap
agreements to obtain a fixed interest rate for a portion of the
variable rate borrowings. The Company generally does not have an
obligation to prepay fixed-rate debt prior to maturity and, as a
result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value would not
have a significant impact on the Company’s fixed-rate debt
until such time as the Company is required to refinance,
repurchase or repay such debt.

The Company’s interest rate swaps were not
designated as hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133 when it was adopted on October 1,
2000. Since their maturities and other terms did not match the
related debt, they were determined to be ineffective hedges (as
defined by the Statement). Therefore, the Company is exposed to
market risk associated with changes in the fair values of the
swaps, since any such changes must be reflected in the
Company’s income statements.

The Company’s financial services segment is
exposed to interest rate risk associated with its mortgage loan
production activities. Mortgage loans are funded at fixed
interest rates before they are committed to specific investors
and interest rate lock commitments (IRLC’s) are extended to
borrowers who have applied for loan funding and who meet certain
defined credit and underwriting criteria. Forward commitments to
sell mortgage-backed securities are designated as fair value
hedges of the risk of changes in the overall fair value of
funded loans. The effectiveness of the fair value hedge is
continuously monitored and any ineffectiveness, which for the
year ended September 30, 2001, was not significant, is
recognized in current earnings. The IRLC’s are classified
and accounted for as non-designated derivative instruments with
gains and losses recorded in current earnings. Interest rate
risk associated with IRLC’s is managed through the use of
best-efforts whole loan delivery commitments, forward
commitments to sell mortgage-backed securities and the purchase
of options on financial instruments. These instruments are
considered non-designated derivatives and are accounted for at
fair market value with gains and losses recorded in current
earnings. At September 30, 2001, total forward commitments
to mitigate interest rate risk related to funded loans and
IRLC’s were approximately $160.5 million, the duration
of which was less than six months.

The following table sets forth, as of
September 30, 2001, the Company’s long term debt
obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity,
weighted average interest rates and estimated fair market value.
In addition, the table sets forth the notional amounts, weighted
average interest rates and estimated fair market value of the
Company’s interest rate swaps.



INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors

D.R. Horton, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2001. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of D.R. Horton, Inc. and
subsidiaries at September 30, 2001 and 2000, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2001, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

Fort Worth, Texas

November 9, 2001



ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

NOTE A— SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES

Business:

D.R. Horton, Inc. (the Company)
is a national builder that is engaged primarily in the
construction and sale of single-family housing in
38 markets and 20 states in the United States. The
Company designs, builds and sells single-family houses on lots
developed by the Company and on finished lots which it
purchases, ready for home construction. Periodically, the
Company sells lots it has developed. The Company also provides
title agency and mortgage brokerage services to its homebuyers.
The Company does not retain or service the mortgages that it
originates but, rather, sells the mortgages and related
servicing rights to investors.

Principles of consolidation:

The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned and
majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Accounting principles:

The preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from
those estimates.

Cash:

The Company
considers all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity
of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
Amounts in transit from title companies for home closings are
included in cash.

Cost of sales:

Cost
of sales includes home warranty costs, purchased discounts for
customer financing, and sales commissions paid to third parties.

Excess of cost over net assets acquired:

For business acquisitions consummated
prior to July 1, 2001, the excess of amounts paid over the
net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is
amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated
benefit period, ranging from ten to twenty years. The Company
plans to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
on October 1, 2001, the first day of fiscal 2002. At that
time, the consolidated goodwill will no longer be amortized but
will be subject to periodic review for impairment.

Additional consideration paid in subsequent
periods under the terms of purchase agreements is included as
acquisition costs. Amortization expense was $9,481,000,
$8,193,000 and $9,567,000 in fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001,
respectively. Accumulated amortization was $29,309,000 and
$38,876,000 at September 30, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

Potential impairments of intangible assets are
reviewed annually or when events and circumstances warrant an
earlier review. Impairments are determined to exist when
estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with an
intangible asset are less than the asset’s carrying value.

Interest:

The
Company capitalizes interest during development and
construction. Capitalized interest is charged to cost of sales
as the related inventory is delivered to the home buyer.
Interest costs are (in thousands):



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Inventories:

Finished inventories are stated at the
lower of accumulated cost or fair value less costs to sell.
Inventories under development or held for development are stated
at accumulated costs, unless such costs would not be recovered
from the cash flows generated by future disposition. In this
instance, such inventories are measured at fair value, less
costs of disposal.

Sold units are expensed on a specific
identification basis as cost of sales. Included in inventories
are related interest and property taxes which are capitalized in
inventory during the development and construction periods.
Residential lots are transferred to construction in progress
when building permits are requested. Land and development costs
are allocated to individual lots on a pro-rata basis.

Minority interests:

The Company has joint venture arrangements on two land projects
whereby the Company is entitled to a percentage of the profits
and/or losses and is the managing partner. The financial
position and results of operations of the joint venture are
consolidated for financial statement purposes and the
partners’ equity positions are disclosed as minority
interests.

Property and equipment:

Property and equipment, including
model home furniture, is stated on the basis of cost. Major
renewals and improvements are capitalized. Repairs and
maintenance are expensed as incurred. Depreciation generally is
provided using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful life of the asset. Accumulated depreciation was
$38,285,000 and $54,038,000 as of September 30, 2000 and
2001, respectively.

Revenue recognition:

Revenue is recognized at the time of the closing of a sale, when
title to and possession of the property transfer to the buyer.

Advertising cost:

The Company expenses advertising costs
as they are incurred. Advertising expense was approximately
$22,182,000, $24,043,000, and $28,900,000 in fiscal 1999, 2000,
and 2001, respectively.

Earnings per share:

Basic net income per share is based
upon the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during each year.

Diluted earnings per share is based upon the
weighted average number of shares of common stock and dilutive
securities outstanding.

The following table sets forth the weighted
average number of shares of common stock and dilutive securities
outstanding used in the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share (in thousands):

In September 2000, the Board of Directors
declared a 9% common stock dividend, payable on
September 29, 2000, to stockholders of record on
September 18, 2000. In February 2001, the Board of
Directors declared an 11% common stock dividend , payable on
March 23, 2001 to stockholders of record on



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

March 9, 2001. The dividends were accounted
for based on the fair value of the Company’s stock on the
date of declaration. The average share amounts presented above
for 1999 and 2000 have been restated to reflect the effects of
the stock dividends.

Options to purchase 1,425,000 shares of
common stock at various prices were outstanding during fiscal
2000 but were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than
the average market price of the common shares and, therefore,
their effect would be antidilutive. All options outstanding
during 2001 were included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share.

Segment information:

Effective September 30, 1999, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131,
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information. SFAS 131 establishes new standards for segment
reporting which is based on the way management organizes
segments within a company for making operating decisions and
assessing performance.

The Company’s financial reporting segments
consist of homebuilding and financial services. The
Company’s homebuilding operations comprise the most
substantial part of its business, with more than 98% of
consolidated revenues in fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001. The
homebuilding operations segment generates the majority of its
revenues from the sale of completed homes with a lesser amount
from the sale of land and lots. The financial services segment
generates its revenues from originating and selling mortgages
and collecting fees for title insurance agency and closing
services. Expenditures for long-lived assets and depreciation
and amortization related to the financial services segment for
the years ended September 30, 1999, 2000 and 2001 were not
significant.

The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are described throughout this note. Assets, revenues
and operating income of the Company’s reportable segments
are included in the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of income.

Long-lived assets:

Potential impairments of long-lived assets are reviewed annually
or when events and circumstances warrant an earlier review. In
accordance with SFAS No. 121, impairment is determined when
estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with an
asset are less than the asset’s carrying value.

Stock-based
compensation:

The Company may, with
the approval of its Board of Directors, grant stock options for
a fixed number of shares to employees with an exercise price
equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant. The
Company accounts for stock option grants in accordance with APB
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees”, and, accordingly, recognizes no compensation
expense for the stock option grants. The Company has adopted the
disclosure-only provisions as specified by the SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.”

Impact of recently issued accounting
standards:

Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, was
issued in June 1998, and was later amended by SFAS 137 and
138, which were issued in June 1999 and June 2000, respectively.
Pursuant to the implementation requirements of SFAS
No. 133, the Company adopted it on October 1, 2000,
the first day of the Company’s fiscal year ending
September 30, 2001. The Company’s interest rate swaps,
the terms of which are more fully described in Note B, were not
designated as hedges under the provisions of SFAS No. 133.
The Statement requires such swaps to be recorded in the
consolidated balance sheet at fair value. Changes in their fair
value must be recorded in the consolidated statements of income.
Accordingly, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle amounting to $2.1 million,
net of income taxes of $1.3 million, as an adjustment to
net income in 2001. The fair value of the Company’s
interest rate swaps is recorded in homebuilding other assets,
and the change in their fair value is recorded in other expense.
The impact of adoption of SFAS No. 133 relating to hedging
activities for mortgage loans and loan commitments was not
material.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 141, “Business
Combinations”, and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets”, effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules,
goodwill will no longer be amortized but will be subject to
periodic tests for impairment of recorded values.

In accordance with the terms of SFAS No. 142
that permit its early adoption, the Company plans to apply the
new rules for goodwill and other intangible assets beginning
October 1, 2001. Application of the provision prohibiting
the amortization of goodwill is expected to result in an
increase in income before income taxes of approximately
$9.0 million in the fiscal year ended September 30,
2002. During the year, the Company will perform the required
tests for impairment of goodwill. The Company does not believe
that such tests will have a significant, adverse effect on its
results of operations or financial position.

Mortgage loans:

Mortgage loans held for sale are reported net of discounts and
are stated at fair value as determined in the aggregate, based
on sale commitments or current market quotes. Any gain or loss
on the sale of loans is recognized at the time of sale. Loan
origination fees, net of the related direct origination costs,
are deferred as an adjustment to the carrying value of the
related mortgage loans held for sale and are recognized in
income upon the sale of the mortgage loans.

The Company enters into forward commitments to
sell mortgage-backed securities when loans are funded but not
yet committed to a specific investor and designates the
derivative instruments as fair value hedges of the risk of
changes in the overall fair value of the loans. Accordingly,
changes in the value of the derivative instruments are
recognized in current earnings, as is the change in value of the
loans. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2001, the
Company’s net gain related to the ineffective portion of
its fair value hedging instruments was not material. The net
gain is included in Financial Services Revenues in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Loan commitments:

To
meet the financing needs of its customers, the Company is party
to interest rate lock commitments (“IRLCs”) which are
extended to borrowers who have applied for loan funding and meet
certain defined credit and underwriting criteria. In accordance
with SFAS No. 133 and related Derivatives Implementation
Group conclusions, the Company classifies and accounts for IRLCs
as non-designated derivative instruments with gains and losses
recorded to current earnings. At September 30, 2000 and
2001, the Company’s IRLCs totaled $75.6 million and
$143.8 million, respectively.

The Company manages interest rate risk related to
its IRLCs through the use of best-efforts whole loan delivery
commitments, forward commitments to sell mortgage-backed
securities and the infrequent purchase of options on financial
instruments. These instruments are considered nondesignated
derivatives and are accounted for at fair market value with
gains and losses recorded to current earnings. As of
September 30, 2001, the Company had approximately
$160.5 million of forward commitments outstanding which
were subject to interest rate risk.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

NOTE B— NOTES PAYABLE

The Company’s notes payable consist of the
following (in thousands):

In April 2001, the Company filed a universal
shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for up to an aggregate amount of $750 million of
the Company’s debt and equity securities. The universal
shelf registration provides that securities may be offered from
time to time in one or more series and in the form of senior,
senior subordinated or subordinated debt, preferred stock and/or
common stock. The Company has $350 million remaining on its
currently effective universal shelf registration statement.

Homebuilding:

The Company has an $825 million unsecured
revolving bank credit facility, consisting of a
$775 million four-year revolving loan and a
$50 million four-year letter of credit facility that
matures in April 2002. Additionally, the Company has another
$45 million standby letter of credit agreement maturing in
2003. The Company is currently in negotiations to refinance the
four-year revolving loan and letter of credit facilities.
Borrowings bear daily interest at rates based upon federal funds
or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread based
upon the Company’s ratio of debt to tangible net worth. In
addition to the stated interest rates, the revolving credit
facility requires the Company to pay certain fees. Under the
debt covenants associated with the revolving credit facility, at
September 30, 2001, the Company had additional borrowing
capacity of $746.8 million. The average interest rates of
the unsecured bank debt at September 30, 2000 and 2001 were
7.4% and 3.3%, respectively.

In August 2001, the Company issued
$200 million principal amount of 7 7/8% Senior
Notes. The notes, which are due August 15, 2011, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The 7 7/8% Senior Notes are not
redeemable except that 35% of the amount originally issued can
be redeemed with the proceeds of public equity offerings at a
redemption price equal to 107.875% of the principal amount
through August 15, 2004, plus accrued interest. The annual
effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs and discount,
is 8.0%.

In May 2001, the Company issued, for gross
proceeds of approximately $200 million, Zero Coupon
Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 with a face amount at maturity
of approximately $381.1 million. The notes were issued at a
price of $524.78 per $1,000 face amount at maturity, which
equates to an annual yield to maturity over the life of the
notes of 3.25%. The notes are convertible into the
Company’s common stock at any time, if the sale price of
the common stock exceeds specified thresholds or in other
specified instances, at



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

the rate of approximately 17.5 shares per
$1,000 face amount at maturity. The conversion ratio equates to
an initial conversion price of $30.00 per share. Holders
have the option to require the Company to repurchase the notes
on any of the second, seventh or twelfth anniversary dates from
the issue date for the initial issue price plus accrued yield to
the purchase date. The Company must satisfy any notes submitted
for repurchase on the second anniversary date in cash. Any notes
submitted for repurchase on the seventh or twelfth anniversary
dates may be settled in any combination of cash and/or the
Company’s common stock, at the Company’s option. The
Company will have the option to redeem the notes, in cash, at
any time after the second anniversary date of the notes for the
initial issue price plus accrued yield to redemption. The
Company will pay contingent interest on the Notes during
specified six-month periods beginning on May 12, 2003, if
the market price of the notes exceeds specified levels.

In March 2001, the Company issued
$200 million principal amount of 9 3/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes. These notes, which are due March 15,
2011, with interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured
obligations of the Company. The 9 3/8% Senior
Subordinated notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any
time on or after March 15, 2006 at a redemption price equal
to 100% of the principal amount plus a premium declining ratably
to par, plus accrued interest. The Company may also redeem up to
35% of the amount originally issued with the proceeds of public
equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 109.375% of the
principal amount, plus accrued interest through March 15,
2004. The annual effective interest rate of the notes, after
giving effect to the amortization of deferred financing costs
and discount, is 9.5%.

In September 2000, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 9 3/4% Senior
Subordinated Notes. These notes, which are due
September 15, 2010, with interest payable semi-annually,
represent unsecured obligations of the Company. The
9 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are not redeemable
except that 33.3% of the amount originally issued can be
redeemed with proceeds of a public equity offering by the
Company at a redemption price of 109.75% through
September 15, 2003. The annual effective interest rate of
the notes, after giving effect to the amortization of deferred
financing costs and discount, is 9.9%.

In March 2000, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 10 1/2% Senior
Notes due April 1, 2005. In June 2000, the Company issued
an additional $50 million principal amount of its
10 1/2% Senior Notes due April 1, 2005. The notes
bear interest payable semi-annually and represent unsecured
obligations of the Company. The 10 1/2% Senior Notes
are not redeemable except that 50% of the amount originally
issued can be redeemed with proceeds of a public equity offering
by the Company at a redemption price of 110.5% through
April 1, 2003. The annual effective interest rate of the
notes, after giving effect to the amortization of deferred
financing costs and discount, is 10.9%.

In February 1999, the Company issued
$385 million principal amount of 8% Senior Notes.
These notes, which are due February 1, 2009, with interest
payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations of the
Company. The 8% Senior Notes are not redeemable except that
35% of the amount originally issued can be redeemed with
proceeds of a public equity offering by the Company at a
redemption price of 108% through February 1, 2002. The
annual effective interest rate of the notes, after giving effect
to the amortization of deferred financing costs and discount,
is 8.3%.

In June 1997, the Company issued
$150 million principal amount of 8 3/8% Senior
Notes. These notes, which are due June 15, 2004, with
interest payable semi-annually, represent unsecured obligations
of the Company. The 8 3/8% Senior Notes are not
redeemable. The annual effective interest rate of the notes,
after giving effect to the amortization of deferred financing
costs and discount, is 8.7%.

In April 1996, the Company issued
$130 million principal amount of 10% Senior Notes due
April 15, 2006. In January 1997, the Company issued an
additional $20 million principal amount of its
10% Senior Notes due April 15, 2006. The notes bear
interest payable semi-annually and represent unsecured
obligations of the Company. The 10% Senior Notes are
redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

any time on or after April 15, 2001 at
redemption prices decreasing from 105%. The annual effective
interest rate of the notes, after giving effect to the
amortization of deferred financing costs and discount,
is 10.2%.

All series of Senior Notes are senior obligations
of the Company and rank

pari passu

in right of payment to
all existing and future unsecured indebtedness of the Company,
and senior to all existing and future indebtedness expressly
subordinated to them. The Senior Subordinated Notes rank behind
all existing and future Senior Notes and bank credit facilities.
Both the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by
the majority of the Company’s subsidiaries. Upon a change
of control of the Company, holders of all series of the notes
have the right to require the Company to redeem such notes at a
price of 101% of the par amount, along with accrued and unpaid
interest.

The indentures of the bank credit facilities and
the Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes contain covenants
which, taken together, limit investments in inventory, stock
repurchases, cash dividends and other restricted payments,
incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions and creation of
liens, and require certain levels of tangible net worth. At
September 30, 2001, these covenants limit the additional
debt the Company could incur to $746.8 million.
Additionally, cash dividends paid on the Company’s common
stock and other restricted payments are limited to an amount not
to exceed, on a cumulative basis, 50% of consolidated net
income, as defined, subject to certain other adjustments.
Pursuant to the most restrictive of these requirements, the
Company had approximately $392.5 million available for the
payment of dividends and other restricted payments at
September 30, 2001.

The Company uses interest rate swap agreements to
help manage a portion of its interest rate exposure. The
agreements convert a notional amount of $200 million from a
variable rate to a fixed rate. These agreements are cancellable
by a third party during periods where LIBOR exceeds 7%. The
agreements expire at dates through September, 2008. The Company
does not expect non-performance by the counter-party, a major
U.S. bank, and any losses incurred in the event of
non-performance are not expected to be material. Net payments or
receipts under these agreements are recorded as adjustments to
interest incurred. As a result of these agreements, the
Company’s net interest costs were reduced by
$3.6 million and $1.5 million in fiscal 2000 and 2001,
respectively.

Maturities of consolidated notes payable,
assuming the revolving bank facility is not extended, are
$234.6 million in 2002, $15.3 million in 2003,
$152.8 million in 2004, $201.1 million in 2005,
$148.5 million in 2006 and $1,317.9 million thereafter.

Financial Services:

The Company has a $200 million mortgage
warehouse line payable to financial institutions, secured by
mortgage loans held for sale, maturing August 13, 2002 at
the 30-day LIBOR rate plus 1%. These notes payable enable the
Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, CH Mortgage
Company I, Ltd. to perform its loan origination and
warehousing functions. The interest rates of the mortgage
warehouse line payable at September 30, 2000 and 2001 were
7.6% and 3.6%, respectively.

NOTE C— ACQUISITIONS

On October 22, 2001, the Company entered
into a definitive agreement under which Schuler Homes, Inc.
would merge into D.R. Horton, Inc. through a cash and stock
transaction valued at approximately $1.2 billion, including
the assumption of debt. The transaction is conditioned upon
obtaining the approvals of both D.R. Horton stockholders
and Schuler Homes stockholders, including separate class votes
by the Class A and Class B common stockholders of
Schuler Homes, as well as other customary closing conditions.
Under the terms of the transaction, each Schuler Homes
stockholder will have the right to elect to receive a
combination of cash and stock, or all cash or all stock.
However, elections to receive either all cash or all stock will
be subject to proration in order to limit the total amount of
cash consideration to be paid by the Company to an



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

aggregate of $4.09 multiplied by the total
Schuler Homes shares outstanding. The complete Agreement and
Plan of Merger and subsequent amendment were included as
exhibits to the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K,
filed with the SEC on October 24, 2001, as amended on
November 8, 2001.

In fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001, the Company made
the following acquisitions:

Consideration includes cash paid and assumption
of certain accounts payable and notes payable, which were repaid
subsequent to the acquisitions. In addition, the Company issued
2,555,911 shares of common stock, valued at
$55.0 million, as partial consideration for the acquisition
of Cambridge Properties and 1,012,925 shares of common
stock, valued at $25.0 million, as partial consideration
for the acquisition of Emerald Builders.

On May 1, 2001, the Company acquired the
assets of Fortress-Florida, Inc. (Fortress), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of The Fortress Group, Inc., for $28.7 million
in cash. Fortress assets, primarily inventories, amounted to
approximately $47.1 million. Total liabilities assumed
amounted to approximately $24.3 million, including notes
payable of $17.4 million, which were paid at closing. The
Fortress acquisition was treated as a purchase for accounting
purposes.

On July 17, 2001, the Company completed the
acquisition of the assets of Emerald Builders (Emerald), a
privately held homebuilder based in Houston, Texas. In the
transaction, the Company issued 1,012,925 shares of common
stock valued at $25.0 million, paid $31.6 million in
cash and assumed liabilities of approximately
$137.0 million, including notes payable of
$110.6 million, most of which were paid at closing.
Emerald’s assets, primarily inventories, amounted to
approximately $170.4 million. The Emerald acquisition was
treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. Pro forma results
of operations had the Fortress and Emerald acquisitions occurred
on the first day of our fiscal year are not materially different
from historical results and are not presented.

NOTE D— STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

On September 7, 2000, the Board of Directors
declared a 9% common stock dividend, payable on
September 29, 2000, to stockholders of record on
September 18, 2000. The dividend was accounted for based on
the fair value of the Company’s stock on the date of
declaration.

On February 27, 2001, the Board of Directors
declared an 11% common stock dividend, payable on March 23,
2001, to stockholders of record on March 9, 2001. The
dividend was accounted for based on the fair value of the
Company’s stock on the date of declaration.

The Company has a shelf registration statement
with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue, from time
to time, up to 8.0 million shares of registered common
stock in connection with future acquisitions.

In November, 1998, the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million each of the
Company’s common stock and senior debt securities, as
market conditions warrant. Through September 30, 2001, the
Company had repurchased $36.9 million
(2,589,200 shares) of common stock in open market purchases
under the stock repurchase plan. All 2,589,200 shares were
reissued in March 2001 as partial payment of the 11% stock
dividend.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

NOTE E—PROVISION FOR INCOME
TAXES

The provision for income taxes includes the
following components (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
used for income tax purposes. These differences primarily relate
to the following (in thousands):

The difference between income tax expense and tax
computed by applying the federal statutory income tax rate of
35% to income before taxes is due to the following (in
thousands):



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

NOTE F—EMPLOYEE BENEFIT
PLANS

The Company has 401(k) plans for all Company
employees who have been with the Company for a period of six
months or more. The Company matches portions of employees’
voluntary contributions. Additional employer contributions in
the form of profit sharing are at the discretion of the Company.
Expenses for these Plans were $2,272,000, $3,124,000 and
$4,204,000 for 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

The Company’s Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plans (SERP’s) are non-qualified deferred
compensation programs that provide benefits payable to certain
management employees upon retirement, death, or termination of
employment with the Company. Under one SERP, the Company accrues
an unfunded benefit based on a percentage of the eligible
employees’ salaries, as well as an interest factor based
upon a predetermined formula. The Company recorded $833,000,
$972,000 and $1,265,000 of expense for this plan in 1999, 2000
and 2001, respectively.

Effective January 15, 1999, the Company
adopted the D.R. Horton, Inc. 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
which provides eligible employees the opportunity to purchase
common stock of the Company at a discounted price of 85% of the
fair market value of the stock on the date of purchase. Under
the terms of the plan, the total fair market value of the common
stock that an eligible employee may purchase each year is
limited to the lesser of 15% of the employee’s annual
compensation or $25,000. Under the plan, employees of the
Company purchased 34,750 shares for $380,000 in 2000 and
7,450 shares for $125,000 in 2001.

The Company Stock Incentive Plans provide for the
granting of stock options to certain key employees of the
Company to purchase shares of common stock. Options are granted
at exercise prices which approximate the market value of the
Company’s common stock at the date of the grant. Options
generally expire 10 years after the dates on which they
were granted. Options vest over periods of 4 to 10 years.
There were 1,104,591 and 1,611,012 shares available for
future grants under the Plans at September 30, 2000 and
2001, respectively. The Company issued a 9% stock dividend on
September 18, 2000, and an 11% stock dividend on
March 9, 2001. The net effects of the dividends were to
increase options outstanding by 345,664 shares in September
2000 and 493,210 in March 2001.

Activity under the Company Stock Incentive Plans
are:

Exercise prices for options outstanding at
September 30, 2001, ranged from $3.7168 to $18.2350.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

The weighted average remaining contractual lives
of those options are:

The Company has elected to follow Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, in accounting for its
employee stock options. The exercise price of the Company’s
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the date of grant, and therefore no compensation
expense is recognized for the initial grants. SFAS No. 123
requires disclosure of pro forma income and pro forma income per
share as if the fair value based method had been applied in
measuring compensation expense for option awards granted in
fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001. Management believes the fiscal 1999,
2000 and 2001 pro forma amounts may not be representative of the
effects of option awards on future pro forma net income and pro
forma net income per share because options granted before 1996
are not considered in these calculations. Application of the
fair value method, as specified by SFAS 123, would decrease
net income by $1,648,000 ($0.02 per diluted share),
$1,909,000 ($0.03 per diluted share) and $2,300,624
($0.03 per diluted share) in 1999, 2000 and 2001,
respectively.

The weighted average fair value of grants made in
1999, 2000 and 2001 was $8.85, $7.14 and $7.78, respectively.

The fair values of the options granted were
estimated on the date of their grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model based on the following weighted average
assumptions:

NOTE G—FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

The fair values of the Company’s financial
instruments are based on quoted market prices, where available,
or are estimated. Fair value estimates are made at a specific
point in time based on relevant market information and
information about the financial instrument. These estimates are
subjective in nature, involve matters of judgment and therefore,
cannot be determined with precision. Estimated fair values are
significantly affected by the assumptions used.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

The table below sets forth the carrying values
and estimated fair values of the Company’s financial
instruments (in thousands).

The Company used the following methods and
assumptions in estimating fair values:

For cash and cash equivalents, the revolving
credit facility, other notes payable, and standby letters of
credit, the carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet or as
reported in Note H approximate fair values due to their
short maturity or floating interest rate terms, as applicable.

For the senior and senior subordinated notes,
fair values represent quoted market prices on the exchange on
which the securities are traded. For interest rate swaps,
mortgage loans held for sale, loan commitments and forward
contracts, the fair values are estimated based on quoted market
prices for similar financial instruments.

NOTE H— COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES

The Company is involved in lawsuits and other
contingencies in the ordinary course of business. Management
believes that, while the ultimate outcome of the contingencies
cannot be predicted with certainty, the ultimate liability, if
any, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company
enters into option agreements to purchase land and developed
lots. At September 30, 2001, cash deposits of approximately
$41.8 million and promissory notes approximating
$1.7 million secured the Company’s performance under
these agreements.

Additionally, in the normal course of its
business activities, the Company provides standby letters of
credit and performance bonds, issued by third parties, to secure
performance under various contracts. At September 30, 2001,
outstanding standby letters of credit were $74.9 million
and performance bonds were $416.2 million. The Company has
an additional capacity of $21.3 million for standby letters
of credit under its revolving credit facility.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

The Company leases office space under
noncancellable operating leases. Minimum annual lease payments
under these leases at September 30, 2001 approximate
(in thousands):

Rent expense approximated $8,456,000, $11,346,000
and $14,393,000 for fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

NOTE I— SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL
INFORMATION

The 7 7/8%, 8%, 8 3/8%, 10% and
10 1/2% Senior Notes, the 9 3/8% and
9 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes, and the Zero Coupon
Convertible Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by all of the
Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries (Guarantor
Subsidiaries), other than financial services subsidiaries and
certain other inconsequential subsidiaries (collectively,
Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries). Each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries
is wholly-owned. In lieu of providing separate audited financial
statements for the Guarantor Subsidiaries, consolidated
condensed financial statements are presented below. Separate
financial statements and other disclosures concerning the
Guarantor Subsidiaries are not presented because management has
determined that they are not material to investors.

Consolidating Balance Sheet

September 30, 2001



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Balance Sheet

September 30, 2000



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 2001



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 2000



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Income

Year Ended September 30, 1999



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 2001



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 2000



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

Consolidating Statement of Cash
Flows

Year Ended September 30, 1999



D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS— (Continued)

NOTE J— QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)

Quarterly results of operations are (in
thousands, except for per share amounts):

NOTE K— TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED
PARTIES

One of the Company’s directors beneficially
owns EVP Capital, L.P., (“EVP”), which was a
general partner of Encore Venture Partners II
(Texas), L.P. (“Encore”), a Company affiliate
which, together with other Company affiliates, invested in
technology start-up and emerging growth companies. During the
term of EVP’s interest in Encore, such director advised and
assisted the Company in its homebuilder acquisitions. In
connection with the termination of the Company’s investment
program through Encore, the existing agreement with EVP was
terminated, along with EVP’s interests in Encore. Since
such termination, through advisory arrangements with the
Company, such director has continued to monitor Encore and
affiliate investments and to advise and assist the Company in
its homebuilder acquisitions, and the Company has paid fees to
EVP. Under these advisory arrangements, such director has also
been active in the process of integrating acquired homebuilding
operations. For the years ended September 30, 2000 and
2001, the Company paid EVP approximately $677,000 and
$1,724,000, respectively, excluding reimbursement of expenses,
under the foregoing agreements and arrangements. For the first
three quarters of fiscal 2002, the Company has agreed to pay EVP
at a quarterly rate of $500,000, in addition to the
reimbursement of expenses, in connection with such
director’s continued advice and assistance.



ITEM 9.     CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Additional Information About D.R.
Horton—Directors and Executive Officers” and the
caption “Additional Information About D.R.
Horton—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” of the registrant’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Additional Information About D.R.
Horton—Executive Compensation” through
“Additional Information About D.R. Horton—Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” of the
registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Additional Information About D.R.
Horton—D.R. Horton’s Principal Stockholders” of
the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2002
Annual Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set
forth under the caption “Additional Information About D.R.
Horton—Transactions with Management” of the
registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS,
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as
part of this report:







(7)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4
	to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
	fiscal year  ended September 30, 1997, filed with the
	Commission on December 8, 1997.

(8)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3
	to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
	the quarter  ended March 31, 1998, filed with
	Commission on May 14, 1998.

(9)

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4
	to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
	the quarter  ended March 31, 1998, filed with
	Commission on May 14, 1998.



(b) The following reports were filed on
Form 8-K by the Registrant during the quarter ended
September 30, 2001:

On August 14, 2001, the Company filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K (Items 5 and 7), which filed an
underwriting agreement, a supplemental indenture and a statement
of computation of ratio of earnings to fixed changes, all
relating to the offering and issuance of $200 million
principal amount of the Registrant’s 7.875% Senior
Notes due 2011.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  November 20, 2001

D.R. HORTON, INC.

By /s/ DONALD R.
	HORTON

Donald R. Horton,

Chairman of the Board

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.



CORPORATE INFORMATION

D.R. Horton, Inc., one of the largest
homebuilders in the United States, builds high quality
single-family homes designed principally for the entry-level and
move-up markets. Founded in 1978, the Company operates in
20 states and 38 markets, with a geographic presence
in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, Southwest, and Western
regions of the United States. The Company builds and sells homes
under the trade names D.R. Horton, Arappco, Cambridge,
Continental, Dietz Crane, Dobson, Emerald Builders, Mareli,
Milburn, Regency, SGS Communities, Torrey and Trimark.

Horton has established a unique marketing niche,
offering a broader selection of homes that typically have more
amenities and greater design flexibility than homes offered by
volume builders, at prices that are generally more affordable
than those charged by local custom builders. Horton homes range
in size from 1,000 to 5,000 square feet and are priced from
$80,000 to $900,000. For the year ended September 30, 2001,
the Company closed 21,371 homes with an average sales price of
approximately $200,700.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Donald R. Horton

Chairman

Bradley S. Anderson

Senior Vice President of

CB Richard Ellis, Inc.(1)(2)

Richard Beckwitt

Principal of Encore Venture

Partners II (Texas), L.P.

Richard I. Galland

Former Chief Executive Officer and

Chairman of Fina, Inc.(1)(2)

Richard L. Horton

Former Vice President— Dallas/
Fort Worth

East Division

Terrill J. Horton

Former Vice President— Dallas/
Fort Worth

North Division

Francine I. Neff

Former Treasurer of the United
States(1)(2)

Scott J. Stone

President— Atlanta Division

Donald J. Tomnitz

Vice Chairman, President and Chief

Executive Officer

Samuel R. Fuller

Executive Vice President, Treasurer and
Chief

Financial Officer

Transfer Agent and Registrar

American Stock Transfer & Trust Co.

New York, NY

(800) 937-5449

Investor Relations

Stacey Dwyer

D.R. Horton, Inc.

1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100

Arlington, Texas 76006

(817) 856-8200

Annual Meeting

(To be announced)

January or February 2002

At the Corporate Offices of

D.R. Horton, Inc.

1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100

Arlington, Texas 76006

Public Debt Ratings

Senior:

BB — Standard & Poors
Corporation

Ba1 — Moody’s Investors Service

Senior Subordinated:

B+ — Standard & Poors
Corporation

Ba2 — Moody’s Investors Service

(1)

Audit Committee Member

(2)

Compensation Committee Member



EXHIBIT INDEX