
10-K
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FOR D.R. HORTON, INC.


                    TWENTY YEARS OF GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY

Dear Stockholders:    


    1997  was another  exceptional  year for D.R.  Horton,  Inc.  New records in
revenues and earnings  allowed the Company to achieve its 20th  consecutive year
of growth and profitability.  Based on Builder Magazine's May 1997 ranking, D.R.
Horton,  Inc. was the 18th largest  homebuilder in the United States.  Today, we
believe D.R.  Horton is among the 10 largest  homebuilders.  More important than
our past, we have set the stage for continued success in 1998 and beyond.


SINCE OUR JUNE 1992 INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING, D.R. HORTON, INC. HAS:

o         Expanded from 8 to 28 markets

o         Grown revenues from $153 million to over $837 million

o         Increased net income from $8.1 million to $36.2 million

o         Increased stockholders' equity from $50.2 million to $262.8 million

o         Provided  stockholders  with an annual return on average stockholders'
          equity of 18.5%

o         Acquired and successfully integrated six homebuilding companies

o         Improved  liquidity  in  our  stock  by  increasing  public float from
          4.4 million shares to 22.5 million shares


1997 WAS AN EXCEPTIONAL YEAR IN WHICH WE:

o         Acquired three companies:
                   "Trimark" Communities in Denver (October 1996)
                   "SGS" Communities in New Jersey (December 1996)
                   "Torrey"  Group   with   operations  in  Atlanta,  Charlotte,
                     Raleigh, and Greenville, S.C. (February 1997)

o         Commenced startup operations in Nashville and Tucson

o         Raised  $40 million of additional equity  through  the  sale of common
          stock

o         Placed  $150 million in public debt for a 7 year term.  This issue was
          rated Ba2 by Moody's and BB by Standard & Poors

o         Restructured our bank facilities to aggregate  $650 million with terms
          up to 5 years at reduced borrowing rates

o         Initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $.02 per common share

o         Expanded our  mortgage operations to provide  mortgage services to our
          homebuyers in  Texas,  Arizona,  North  Carolina, Nevada, Colorado and
          Florida


ADDITIONALLY, IN 1997 WE INCREASED:

o         Pretax income 35% to $59.9 million

o         Revenues 53% to $837.3 million (5,018 homes)

o         New sales orders 47% to $863.2 million (5,177 homes)

o         Year end sales backlog 49% to $312.2 million (1,793 homes)






ANNUAL AWARDS

    Each year,  D.R. Horton formally recognizes outstanding achievements through
its individual and division awards. We congratulate our 1997 recipients of these
awards who were:

o         The Dallas/Fort Worth East Division managed by Leon Horton,  was named
          "Division of The Year" by his peer group within the Company.

o         Judy Dougherty,  of our  Atlanta-Torrey  Division,  led the Company by
          selling the highest dollar volume of homes and is our "Sales Person of
          the Year".

o         Tom Lombardi,  of our San Diego Division,  is our "Construction Person
          of the Year" for  supervising  construction of the most homes in 1997.
          Tom also won this award last year.


1998 AND BEYOND

    We  look  forward  to a highly  successful  year ahead and  anticipate  D.R.
Horton will enjoy its 21st year of growth and  profitability.  Some of our goals
for 1998 are to exceed $1 billion in revenues and be one of the largest and most
profitable companies in the homebuilding  industry.  We invite you to follow our
progress and become more  familiar  with our Company by accessing our website at
http://www.DRHORTON.com.

    Our  rapid  growth  requires  that we  attract,  develop,  and  retain  very
talented  personnel.  We commend all of our  employees  for their  assistance in
making 1997 an exceptional year and ask their help in making 1998 even better.

    Our history demonstrates not only our ability to grow by starting operations
in new markets,  but also our success in acquiring  homebuilding  companies that
make  immediate   contributions  to  our  earnings.   We  continuously   explore
acquisition  candidates  and new markets and plan to enter three to four markets
annually.  The continuous growth of our Company through geographic  expansion is
unmatched by anyone in the industry.



                                             /s/ DONALD R. HORTON

                                             Donald R. Horton
                                             Chairman of the Board and President




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
                |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997

                                       OR

              |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the transition period from _____ to _____

                          Commission File number 1-4112
                                   ----------
                                D.R. HORTON, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              DELAWARE                                  75-2386963
  (State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

    1901 ASCENSION BLVD, SUITE 100                         76006
           ARLINGTON, TEXAS                              (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (817) 856-8200
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

         TITLE OF EACH CLASS           NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
         -------------------           -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share        The New York Stock Exchange
     8 3/8% Senior Notes due 2004             The New York Stock Exchange

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
                                (Title of Class)

    Indicate by  check mark  whether  the registrant  (1) has filed  all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No 
                                              ---    ---

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of  delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
           ------

    As of  November 30, 1997, there were 37,346,343  shares of Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, issued and outstanding,  and the aggregate market value of
these  shares  held  by  non-affiliates  of  the  registrant  was  approximately
$406,607,000.  Solely  for  purposes  of this  calculation,  all  directors  and
executive officers were excluded as affiliates of the registrant.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of  the  registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders  to be held  on  January  22,  1998,  are  incorporated  herein  by
reference in Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

    The   Company  is  engaged   primarily  in  the  construction  and  sale  of
single-family  homes  in  metropolitan  areas  of  the  Mid-Atlantic,   Midwest,
Southeast,  Southwest, and West regions of the United States. The Company offers
high-quality   homes  with  custom  features,   designed   principally  for  the
entry-level and move-up market segments.  The Company's homes generally range in
size  from  1,000 to 5,000  square  feet and  range  in price  from  $80,000  to
$600,000.  For the year ended  September 30, 1997, the Company closed homes with
an average sales price approximating $166,700.

    The Company is one of the most  geographically  diversified  homebuilders in
the United States, with operating  divisions in 21 states and 28 markets.  These
markets include Albuquerque,  Atlanta, Austin, Birmingham,  Charlotte,  Chicago,
Cincinnati,  Dallas/Fort Worth,  Denver,  Greensboro,  Greenville S.C., Houston,
Kansas  City,  Las Vegas,  Los Angeles,  Minneapolis/St.  Paul,  Nashville,  New
Jersey, Orlando, Pensacola, Phoenix, Raleigh/Durham,  Salt Lake City, San Diego,
South Florida, St. Louis, Tucson and Suburban Washington, D.C.

    The Company  was incorporated in Delaware on July 1, 1991, to acquire all of
the assets and businesses of 25 predecessor  companies,  which were  residential
home  construction  and  development  companies owned or controlled by Donald R.
Horton.

    The  Company's  principal  executive  offices are located at 1901  Ascension
Blvd.,  Suite 100,  Arlington,  Texas 76006,  and its telephone  number is (817)
856-8200.


Operating Strategy

    The  Company  believes  that  there are  several  important  elements to its
operating  strategy  which  have  enabled it to  achieve  consistent  growth and
profitability. The following are important elements of this strategy:

    Geographic    Diversification.   From  1978  to  late  1987,  the  Company's
homebuilding  activities  were conducted  exclusively in the  Dallas/Fort  Worth
area.  The Company  then  instituted  a policy of  diversifying  geographically,
entering the following markets in the years indicated:



    The Company  continually  monitors the sales and margins achieved in each of
the  subdivisions  in which it operates as part of an overall  evaluation of the
employment  of its capital.  While the Company  believes  there are  significant
growth  opportunities in its existing markets, it intends to continue its policy
of  diversification  by seeking to enter new markets.  The Company believes that
its  diversification  strategy  mitigates  the  effects  of local  and  regional
economic cycles and enhances its growth potential.  Typically,  the Company will





not invest material amounts in real estate,  including raw land, developed lots,
models and speculative homes, or overhead in start-up  operations in new markets
until such markets  demonstrate  significant  growth potential and acceptance of
the Company and its products.


    Acquisitions. As an integral component of the Company's operational strategy
of continued  expansion,  the Company  continually  evaluates  opportunities for
strategic  acquisitions.  The Company  believes that expansion of its operations
through the acquisition of existing  homebuilding  companies  affords it several
benefits not found in start-up  operations.  Such benefits  include  established
land  positions  and  inventories;  existing  relationships  with  land  owners,
developers,  subcontractors  and suppliers;  brand name recognition;  and proven
product  acceptance  by  homebuyers  in  the  market.  In  evaluating  potential
acquisition  candidates,  the Company seeks homebuilding  companies that have an
excellent  reputation,  a track record of profitability  and a strong management
team with an  entrepreneurial  orientation.  The  Company  has limited the risks
associated with acquiring a going concern by conducting  extensive  operational,
financial  and legal due  diligence on each  acquisition  and by only  acquiring
homebuilding  companies  that the  Company  believes  should  have an  immediate
positive impact on the Company's earnings.

    The Company has acquired six homebuilding companies since March 1994:



    In both  existing  and new  markets,  the Company  anticipates  that it will
continue to evaluate potential future acquisition opportunities that satisfy its
acquisition criteria.

    The Company made three  acquisitions  during fiscal 1997. In October,  1996,
the Company  completed the  acquisition of the principal  assets  (approximately
$7.6 million, primarily inventories) of Trimark for $7.0 million in cash and the
assumption  of  approximately  $1.0 million in trade  accounts and notes payable
associated with the acquired assets.  In December,  1996, the Company  purchased
the principal assets (approximately $19.5 million, primarily inventories) of SGS
for $10.6  million in cash and the  assumption  of $10.1 million in accounts and
notes payable  associated  with  the  acquired  assets.  In February,  1997, the
Company  completed the acquisition of all the outstanding  capital stock of  the
entities comprising Torrey and purchased assets from affiliated  entities.   The
Company paid consideration  consisting  of  $37.6 million in cash, 844,444 newly
issued, restricted shares of the Company's common stock, valued at $9.2 million,
and assumed $90.0 million in accounts and notes payable.

    Torrey,  the largest  acquisition the Company has made, has been the leading
builder of single-family homes in the large and growing Atlanta,  Georgia market
for the past three years as reported in Builder  Magazine.  Atlanta has been the
largest  housing  market in the United  States for the past three years based on
single-family  building permits.  Torrey targets both entry-level and first time
move-up buyers. In addition to building homes in the Atlanta market,  Torrey has
homebuilding  operations in Charlotte and  Raleigh/Durham,  North Carolina,  and
Greenville, South Carolina.

    Market  Focus--Custom  Features.  The  Company  typically  positions  itself
between large volume  homebuilders  and local custom  homebuilders by offering a
broader  selection  of  homes  that  have  more  amenities  and  greater  design
flexibility than homes offered by volume builders,  at prices that are generally





more  affordable  than  those  charged by local  custom  builders.  The  Company
generally  offers between five and ten home designs that it believes will appeal
to  local  homebuyers  at each of its  subdivisions,  but is  prepared  to offer
additional  building plans and options that may be more suitable or desirable to
homebuyers.  The  Company  also is  prepared to  customize  such  designs to the
individual  tastes and  specifications  of its  homebuyers.  While  most  design
modifications  are  significant to homebuyers,  such changes  typically  involve
relatively  minor  adjustments  including,  among other  things,  modifying  the
interior or exterior  dimensions  of the home and changing  exterior  materials.
Such changes  generally improve the Company's gross margins.  Consequently,  the
Company  believes  that it is able to  maintain  the  efficiencies  of a  volume
builder while delivering high-quality,  personalized homes to its customers. The
Company  believes  that its ability to cater to the design tastes and desires of
the  prospective  homebuyer  at  competitive  prices,  even  at the entry-level,
distinguishes it from many of its competitors.

    Decentralized   Operations.   The  Company's  homebuilding   activities  are
decentralized to give more operating flexibility to its local division managers.
The  Company's  homebuilding  activities  are  conducted  through  34  operating
divisions,  some of which are in the same general market area.  Generally,  each
operating division consists of a vice president,  an office manager and staff, a
sales  manager,  one to eleven sales people and one  construction  manager,  who
oversees  one to  nine  construction  supervisors.  The  Company  believes  that
division  managers,  who are  intimately  familiar with local  conditions,  make
better decisions  regarding local operations than do the centralized,  corporate
management  teams  who make such  decisions  for many of its  competitors.  Each
operating division is responsible for preliminary site selection, negotiation of
option or similar contracts,  and overseeing land development  activities.  Site
selection  and lot  acquisition  typically  involve a  feasibility  study by the
operating  division,  including  soil and  environmental  reviews,  a review  of
existing zoning and other  governmental  requirements,  and a review of the need
for and extent of offsite work and additional lot  preparation  required to meet
local  building  codes.  Each  operating  division  also plans its  homebuilding
schedule,   selects  the  building  plans  and  architectural   scheme  for  its
subdivisions, obtains all necessary building approvals, and develops a marketing
plan for its homes.  Division  managers receive  performance  bonuses based upon
achieving targeted operating levels in their operating divisions.

    The  Company's  corporate  office  controls  key risk  elements by retaining
oversight  and   responsibility   for  final   approval  of  all  land  and  lot
acquisitions,   inventory  levels,   financing   arrangements,   accounting  and
management reporting,  payment of  subcontractor invoices,  payroll and employee
benefits.

    Cost  Management.  The  Company  strives to control  its  overhead  costs by
centralizing  its  administrative  and accounting  functions and by limiting the
number of field administrative  personnel and middle level management positions.
The Company also  attempts to minimize  advertising  costs by  participating  in
promotional  activities,  publications  and newsletters  sponsored by local real
estate brokers,  mortgage  companies,  utility companies and trade associations,
and, in certain  instances,  by  positioning  its  subdivisions  in  conspicuous
locations that permit it to take advantage of local traffic patterns.

    The Company  attempts to control  construction  costs  through the efficient
design  of  its  homes  and  by   obtaining   favorable   pricing  from  certain
subcontractors  based on the high volume of work they  perform for the  Company.
The Company's  management  information  systems,  including  the purchase  order
system, also assist in controlling  construction costs by allowing corporate and
division  management  to  monitor  expenditures  on  a  home-by-home  basis.  In
addition,  the  Company's  management  information  systems allow the Company to
monitor its inventory  composition and levels,  thereby  controlling capital and
overhead costs.

    Limited Real Estate  Exposure.  The Company  frequently  acquires  developed
building lots pursuant to lot option and similar  contracts after all zoning and
other  governmental  entitlements  and approvals are obtained.  By utilizing lot
option contracts,  the Company  purchases the right, but not the obligation,  to
buy building lots at predetermined  prices on a takedown  schedule  commensurate
with  anticipated  home closings.  The lot option  contracts  generally are on a
nonrecourse basis,  thereby limiting the Company's financial exposure to earnest
money deposits given to property  sellers.  This practice enables the Company to
control   significant   lot   positions   with  minimal  up  front  capital  and
substantially  reduces the risks associated with land ownership and development.
The  Company  attempts  to control a two to four year  supply of  building  lots
within each market based on current and expected  absorption rates. At September
30, 1997, the Company held lot option and similar contracts for 12,569 lots with





an estimated  aggregate  purchase  price  approximating  $408.5  million.  These
options are secured by cash  deposits of  approximately  $8.0  million,  standby
letters  of  credit   approximating   $2.5  million  and  promissory   notes  of
approximately $1.7 million.


Markets

    The  Company's  homebuilding  activities  are  conducted in five  geographic
regions, comprised of the following markets:



    The Company's  operations in each of its markets differ based on a number of
market-specific  factors. These factors include regional economic conditions and
job growth, land availability and the local land development  process,  consumer
tastes,  competition  from other  builders of new homes and secondary home sales
activity.  The Company considers each of these factors when entering new markets
or conducting operations in existing markets.

    Revenues for the Company by geographic region are:




Land Policies

    While  the  Company  expects  to  continue  to use lot  option  and  similar
contracts  to  secure  developed  lots,  it will  pursue  land  acquisition  and
development opportunities to augment its inventory of low-cost, quality building
lots  and to  maximize  profit  opportunities.  Substantially  all  of the  land
acquired by the Company is purchased only after necessary entitlements have been
obtained so that the Company has the right to begin development or construction.
The Company generally limits its acquisitions to smaller tracts of entitled land
that will yield  under 200 lots when  developed  and,  where  possible,  obtains
options to acquire  adjacent  parcels for later  development.  By  limiting  its
acquisition and  development  activities to smaller parcels of land, the Company
reduces the financial and market risks  associated  with holding land during the
development  period.  Before it acquires tracts of land, the Company will, among
other  things,   complete  a  feasibility  study,  which  includes  soil  tests,
independent environmental studies and other engineering work, and determine that
all necessary zoning and other governmental entitlements required to develop and
use the property for home  construction  have been  acquired.  At September  30,
1997,  about 48.3% of the Company's  total lot position of 24,300 lots was being
or had been  developed by the Company.  Although the Company  purchases land and
engages in land development activities primarily to support its own homebuilding
activities,  lots  and  land  are  occasionally  sold to  other  developers  and
homebuilders.





    A summary of the Company's land/lot positions at September 30, 1997 is:



    The Company also seeks to limit its exposure to real estate  inventory risks
by (i)  generally  commencing  construction  of homes under  contract only after
receipt of a  satisfactory  down  payment  and,  where  applicable,  the buyer's
receipt of mortgage  approval;  (ii)  limiting the number of  speculative  homes
(homes started without an executed sales  contract)  built in each  subdivision;
and,  (iii) closely  monitoring  local market and  demographic  trends,  housing
preferences and related economic  developments,  such as new job  opportunities,
local growth initiatives and personal income trends.


Construction

    The  Company's  home  designs  are  prepared  by  architects  in each of the
Company's  markets to appeal to local tastes and  preferences  of the community.
Optional  interior  and  exterior  features  also are  offered by the Company to
enhance the basic home design and to promote the custom  aspect of the Company's
sales efforts.

    Substantially  all  of the  Company's  construction  work  is  performed  by
subcontractors.  The Company's construction supervisors monitor the construction
of each home, participate in material design and building decisions,  coordinate
the  activities  of   subcontractors   and   suppliers,   subject  the  work  of
subcontractors  to quality and cost controls and monitor  compliance with zoning
and  building  codes.  Subcontractors  typically  are  retained  for a  specific
subdivision  pursuant to a contract that obligates the subcontractor to complete
construction at a fixed price. Agreements with the Company's  subcontractors and
suppliers  generally are negotiated for each  subdivision.  The Company competes
with other homebuilders for qualified subcontractors,  raw materials and lots in
the markets where it operates.

    Construction   time  for  the  Company's   homes  depends  on  the  weather,
availability of labor,  materials and supplies,  and other factors.  The Company
typically completes the construction of a home within four months.

    The  Company  does not  maintain  significant  inventories  of  construction
materials,  except for work in process  materials for homes under  construction.
Typically,  the  construction  materials  used in the Company's  operations  are
readily available from numerous sources. The Company does not have any long-term
contracts with suppliers of its building materials. In recent years, the Company
has not experienced any significant  delays in construction  due to shortages of
materials or labor.


Marketing and Sales

    The Company markets and sells its homes through  commissioned  employees and
independent real estate brokers.  Home sales are typically  conducted from sales
offices located in furnished model homes used in each subdivision.  At September
30, 1997,  the Company owned 282 model homes.  These models homes  generally are
not offered for sale  until the  completion of the  respective subdivision.  The
Company's sales personnel assist  prospective  homebuyers by providing them with
floor  plans,  price  information,  tours of model  homes and the  selection  of
options and other custom features. Such personnel are trained by the Company and
kept informed as to the  availability of financing,  construction  schedules and
marketing and advertising plans.

     In addition to using model homes,  the Company  typically  builds a limited
number of  speculative  homes in each  subdivision  to enhance its marketing and
sales  activities.  Construction of these speculative homes also is necessary to
satisfy the  requirement of relocated  personnel and  independent  brokers,  who





often represent homebuyers requiring a completed home within 60 days. A majority
of these  speculative  homes are sold while under  construction  or  immediately
following  completion.  The number of  speculative  homes is influenced by local
market  factors,   such  as  new  employment   opportunities,   significant  job
relocations, growing housing demand and the length of time the Company has built
in the  market.  Depending  upon the  seasonality  of each of its  markets,  the
Company seeks to limit its speculative homes in each  subdivision.  At September
30,  1997,  the Company was  operating  in 362  subdivisions  and  averaged  4.2
speculative homes in each subdivision.

    The Company  advertises on a limited basis in newspapers  and in real estate
broker,  mortgage company and utility publications,  brochures,  newsletters and
billboards.  To minimize  advertising  costs, the Company attempts to operate in
subdivisions in conspicuous  locations that permit it to take advantage of local
traffic patterns.  The Company also believes that model homes play a significant
role in its marketing  efforts.  Consequently,  the Company expends  significant
efforts in creating an attractive atmosphere in its model homes.

    Sales of the Company's homes generally are made pursuant to a standard sales
contract which requires a down payment  approximating 5% of the sales price. The
contract  includes a financing  contingency which permits the customer to cancel
in the event mortgage  financing at prevailing  interest  rates is  unobtainable
within a specified  period,  typically four to six weeks,  and may include other
contingencies, such as the sale of an existing home. The Company includes a home
sale in its sales  backlog upon  execution of the sales  contract and receipt of
the initial down payment.  The Company does not recognize  revenue upon the sale
of a home until it is closed and title passes.  The Company  estimates  that the
average  period between the execution of a sales contract for a home and closing
is approximately three to five months.


Customer Service and Quality Control

    The Company's operating  divisions are responsible for pre-closing,  quality
control inspections and responding to customer's post-closing needs. The Company
believes  that prompt and  courteous  response to  homebuyer's  needs during and
after construction  reduces  post-closing  repair costs,  enhances the Company's
reputation for quality and service,  and ultimately leads to significant  repeat
and referral business from the real estate community and homebuyers. The Company
provides its homebuyers  with a limited  one-year  warranty on  workmanship  and
building   materials.   The  subcontractors  who  perform  most  of  the  actual
construction  also  provide  warranties  of  workmanship  to  the  Company,  and
generally  are prepared to respond to the Company and  homeowner  promptly  upon
request.  In most  cases,  the  Company  supplements  its  one-year  warranty by
purchasing  a  ten-year  limited  warranty  from a third  party.  To  cover  its
potential  warranty  obligations,  the Company  accrues an estimated  amount for
future warranty costs.


Customer Financing

    In 1996,  the Company formed D.R.  Horton  Mortgage  Company,  Ltd., a joint
venture with a third party, to provide mortgage financing services,  principally
to  purchasers  of homes built and sold by the  Company.  D.R.  Horton  Mortgage
presently provides services in Texas, Arizona,  North Carolina,  South Carolina,
Nevada, Colorado and Florida.

    In its other markets,  the Company does not provide mortgage financing,  but
works with a variety of mortgage  lenders that make  available  to  homebuyers a
range of conventional  mortgage financing programs.  By making information about
these   programs   available  to  prospective   homebuyers  and   maintaining  a
relationship with such mortgage  lenders,  the Company is able to coordinate and
expedite the entire sales transaction by ensuring that mortgage  commitments are
received and that closings take place on a timely and efficient basis.


Title Services

    Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries,  DRH Title Company of Texas, Ltd. and
DRH Title  Company of Florida,  Inc.,  the Company  serves as a title  insurance
agent by providing title insurance  policies and closing  services to purchasers
of homes  built and sold by the  Company in the  Dallas/Fort  Worth,  Austin and
Orlando markets.  The Company assumes no underwriting risk associated with these
title policies.





Employees

    At September 30, 1997, the Company employed 1,160 persons,  of whom 357 were
sales and marketing personnel,  382 were executive,  administrative and clerical
personnel, 405 were involved in construction, and 16 worked in title operations.
Fewer than 10 of the Company's  employees  are covered by collective  bargaining
agreements. Some of the subcontractors which the Company uses are represented by
labor unions or are subject to  collective  bargaining  agreements.  The Company
believes that its relations with its employees and subcontractors are good.


Competition

    The single family residential  housing industry is highly  competitive,  and
the Company  competes  in each of its  markets  with  numerous  other  national,
regional and local  homebuilders,  some of which have greater resources than the
Company.  The Company's  homes compete on the basis of quality,  price,  design,
mortgage financing terms and location.


Regulation and Environmental Matters

    The  housing,  mortgage  and  title  insurance  industries  are  subject  to
extensive  and complex  regulations.  The Company  and its  subcontractors  must
comply with  various  federal,  state and local laws and  regulations  including
zoning  and  density  requirements,  building,  environmental,  advertising  and
consumer credit rules and regulations, as well as other rules and regulations in
connection  with  its   homebuilding   and  sales   activities.   These  include
requirements as to building  materials to be used,  building designs and minimum
elevation of properties.  The Company's homes are inspected by local authorities
where required,  and homes eligible for insurance or guarantees  provided by the
FHA and VA, respectively, are subject to inspection by the FHA or VA.

    The  Company  is  also  subject  to a variety  of local,  state and  federal
statutes,  ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of health and
the environment  ("environmental laws"). The particular environmental laws which
apply to any  given  homebuilding  site vary  greatly  according  to the  site's
location,   environmental   condition   and  present  and  former  uses.   These
environmental  laws may  result  in  delays,  may  cause  the  Company  to incur
substantial  compliance and other costs,  and can prohibit or severely  restrict
homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

    The Company's  mortgage joint venture and title insurance agencies must also
comply  with  various  federal  and  state  laws,   consumer  credit  rules  and
regulations, and rules and regulations unique to such activities.  Additionally,
mortgage loans and title activities  originated under the FHA, VA, FNMA and GNMA
are subject to rules and regulations imposed by those agencies.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company owns a 52,000  square foot office  complex,  consisting of three
single-story  buildings of steel and brick  construction,  located in Arlington,
Texas, that serves as the Company's  principal  executive offices and houses two
of  the  Company's   Dallas/Fort  Worth  divisions.   The  Company  also  leases
approximately  87,000  square feet of space for its  operating  divisions  under
leases expiring between December, 1997 and July, 2001.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is a party to routine  litigation  incidental  to its  business.
Management  does not believe such matters could have a material  adverse  effect
upon the  financial  condition of the Company,  if the  litigation  were decided
adversely to the Company.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.





                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    The  Company's  common stock (the "Common  Stock") is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "DHI".  The following  table sets forth the high
and low sales prices for the Common Stock for the periods indicated, as reported
on the NASDAQ National  Market  (through  December 13, 1995) and on the New York
Stock  Exchange  on and  after  December  14,  1995,  adjusted  for the 8% stock
dividend of May 1996.



    As of  November 30, 1997,  there were  approximately  223 holders of record.
The  Company has  declared  cash  dividends  of two cents per share for the last
three  quarters  of  fiscal  1997.  Prior  thereto,  no cash  dividend  had been
declared.

    The  declaration  of cash  dividends is at the  discretion  of the Company's
Board of Directors and will depend upon,  among other things,  future  earnings,
cash flows, capital requirements, the general financial condition of the Company
and general business conditions.  The Company is required to comply with certain
covenants  contained in its bank agreements and the Senior Notes indenture.  The
most restrictive of these requirements  allows the Company to pay cash dividends
on its common stock in an amount,  on a cumulative  basis,  not to exceed 50% of
consolidated  net  income,  as defined,  after June 4, 1997,  subject to certain
other adjustments.  Pursuant to the most restrictive of these requirements,  the
Company had  approximately  $31.3 million available for the payment of dividends
at September 30, 1997.

    On  February 26, 1997, the Company  acquired the equity interests of a group
of corporations known as the "Torrey" Group. As consideration,  the Company paid
$37.6  million in cash,  assumed $90.0 million in accounts and notes payable and
issued  844,444  shares of its  Common  Stock,  par  value $ .01 per share  (the
"Torrey Shares"), valued at $9.2 million. The consideration was paid to the five
owners  of the  interests  acquired  (the  "Sellers").  The  Sellers  were  four
executive  officers of Torrey who were  active in the  business  acquired  and a
trust, the trustee and grantor of which was one of the four executive  officers.
Exemption  from  registration  under  the  Securities  Act of 1933  was  claimed
pursuant to Section 4(2)  thereof in reliance  upon (i)  representations  of the
Sellers as to their investment intent, sophistication, knowledge and experience;
(ii)  disclosure by the Company of its  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 reports
and access of the Sellers to the Company's executives to ask questions,  receive
answers and obtain  additional  information  from the Company;  and (iii) resale
restrictions  on  the  Torrey  Shares,  including  restrictive  legends  on  the
certificates representing the Torrey Shares and stop transfer orders placed with
the Company's transfer agent as to the Torrey Shares.





ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The  following  selected  consolidated  financial  data of the  Company  are
qualified  by  reference  to  and  should  be  read  in  conjunction   with  the
consolidated  financial  statements,  related notes thereto and other  financial
data elsewhere herein.  These historical results are not necessarily  indicative
of the results to be expected in the future.

    In 1993,  the  Company  changed its fiscal  year end to  September  30, thus
operating  information  for the nine months then ended  represents the Company's
fiscal period.


- ----------
(1) Adjusted for stock  dividends of 6% in 1994,  9% and 40% in 1995,  and 8% in
    1996.
(2) See  Note C   to  the  audited financial statements  for details  concerning
    acquisitions by the Company.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
         FINANCIAL CONDITION


Results of Operations

    The following tables set forth certain information  regarding  the Company's
operations.













Year Ended September 30, 1997 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 1996

    Revenues  increased by  53.0% to $837.3  million in 1997 from $547.3 million
in 1996.  The number of homes closed by the Company  increased by 52.8% to 5,018
homes in 1997 from 3,284 homes in 1996.  Home  closings  increased in all of the
Company's market regions,  with percentage  increases ranging from 142.6% in the
Southeast  region to 9.4% in the Midwest region.  The increases in both revenues
and homes closed were due in part to the February  1997  acquisition  of Torrey.
Since the date of the  acquisition,  Torrey  closed  962  homes,  with  revenues
totaling $140.8 million.  For the year,  Torrey  comprised 19.2% of homes closed
and 16.8% of the revenues  generated.  Excluding Torrey,  revenues  increased by
27.2% to $696.5 million. The average price of homes closed in 1997 was $166,700,
relatively unchanged from 1996.

    New  net sales  contracts  increased 48.4% to 5,177 homes in 1997 from 3,488
in 1996.  Percentage  increases in the dollar  value of new net sales  contracts
ranging from 146.5% to 5.9% were achieved in four of the  Company's  five market
regions,  with a 4.4% decline experienced in the Midwest region.  Since the date
of its acquisition,  Torrey's new net sales contracts amounted to $153.8 million
(1,049  homes).  Excluding  Torrey,  the Company's new net sales  contracts were
$709.4 million (4,128  homes),  a 21.2% increase over 1996. The average  selling
price of new  sales  contracts  in 1997 was  $166,700,  down  0.7% from the 1996
average selling price of $167,900, mainly due to a lower average sales price for
homes sold by Torrey.

    The Company  was  operating  in 362  subdivisions  at  September  30,  1997,
compared to 184 at September  30, 1996.  At September  30, 1997,  the  Company's
backlog of sales  contracts was $312.2 million  (1,793 homes),  a 49.5% increase
over the comparable  figure at September 30, 1996. At September 30, 1997, Torrey
held a sales contract  backlog of $61.8 million (413 homes).  Excluding  Torrey,
the Company's  sales contract  backlog at September 30, 1997, was $250.4 million
(1,380 homes), up 19.9% from the prior year. The average sales price of homes in
backlog  increased to $174,100 at September 30, 1997, from $173,500 at September
30, 1996.

    Cost  of  sales  increased  by  52.6% to $685.3  million in 1997 from $449.1
million in 1996.  The  increase  in cost of sales  accompanied  the  increase in
revenues.  Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues  decreased by 0.1% to 81.9%
in 1997 from 82.0% in 1996,  as slightly  better gross margins were realized for
the year, despite the effects of purchase accounting  adjustments  requiring the
Company to  increase  its basis in  inventory  acquired  with  Trimark,  SGS and
Torrey.

    Selling,  general  and  administrative  (SG&A) expenses  increased  by 66.1%
to $89.5  million  in 1997  from  $53.9  million  in 1996.  As a  percentage  of
revenues, SG&A expenses increased to 10.7% in 1997 from 9.8% in 1996. Absent the
SG&A costs  associated  with  integrating  the three  acquisitions in 1997, SG&A
costs would have increased by 0.2% of revenues.

    Interest  expense  increased  to  $5.2 million in 1997 from  $1.5 million in
1996,  since  average  interest-bearing  debt grew at a faster pace than average
amounts of inventory under  construction and development.  This is partially due
to the three  acquisitions  during  the year.  The  increased  interest  expense
occurred despite a 49 basis point decline in the effective  interest rate during
the  year.  The  Company  follows  a policy  of  capitalizing  interest  only on
inventory  under  construction  or  development.  During both 1997 and 1996, the
Company  expensed  the portion of incurred  interest and other  financing  costs
which  could  not be  charged  to  inventory.  Capitalized  interest  and  other
financing costs are included in costs of sales at the time of home closings.

    Other income,  which consists  mainly  of  interest  income  and  the pretax
earnings of the DRH Title Companies and DRH Mortgage Company, Ltd., increased to
$2.6 million in 1997 from $1.5 million in 1996.  The increase was  partially due
to 1997  comprising a full year of operations  for DRH Mortgage  Company,  Ltd.,
compared to only six months in 1996.

    The provision for income taxes increased 38.9% to $23.7 million in 1997 from
$17.1  million  in 1996,  due in part to the  corresponding  increase  in income
before  income taxes.  The  effective  tax rate  increased to 39.6% in 1997 from
38.4% in 1996 due to greater earnings in states with higher tax structures. As a
percentage of revenues,  the income tax  provision  decreased by 0.3% to 2.8% in
1997.





Year Ended September 30, 1996 Compared to Year Ended September 30, 1995

    Revenues increased by 25.1% to  $547.3 million  in 1996 from  $437.4 million
in 1995.  The number of homes closed by the Company  increased by 32.7% to 3,284
homes in 1996 from 2,474 homes in 1995.  Home  closings  increased in all of the
Company's  market regions,  with percentage  increases  ranging from 9.5% in the
Southwest  region to 103.9% in the West  region.  Of the 32.7%  increase in 1996
home  closings,  13.4% was the result of  acquisitions  made in  Greensboro  and
Birmingham  in the last  quarter of 1995.  The 1996  increase  in  revenues  was
achieved in spite of a 4.1% decrease in the average  price of homes  closed,  to
$166,600 in 1996 from  $173,700 in 1995.  The decrease was due to changes in the
geographic mix of homes closed within the Company and different  price points in
certain markets.

    New net sales contracts  increased  36.6% to 3,488  homes in 1996 from 2,553
in 1995.  Percentage increases in new net sales contracts ranging from 126.7% to
14.2% were  achieved in the  Company's  market  regions.  The 1996 average sales
price was $167,900 compared to $176,000 in 1995.

    The  Company  was  operating  in  184  subdivisions  at  September 30, 1996,
compared to 162 at September  30, 1995.  At September  30, 1996,  the  Company's
backlog of sales contracts was 1,204 homes, a 20.4% increase over the comparable
figure at  September  30,  1995.  The  average  sales  price of homes in backlog
increased to $173,500 at  September  30, 1996,  from  $170,700 at September  30,
1995.

    Cost of sales  increased  by  24.8% to  $449.1 million in  1996 from  $359.7
million in 1995. As a percentage of revenues, cost of sales decreased by 0.2% to
82.0% in 1996 from 82.2% in 1995.  This  improvement  resulted  from good market
conditions  during the year,  proactive  efforts to  maintain  sales  prices and
control costs, and higher margins on homes closed on internally  developed lots.
The Company does not capitalize pre-opening costs for new subdivisions.

    Selling,  general and administrative  (SG&A)  expense increased by  20.9% to
$53.9 million in 1996 from $44.5  million in 1995.  The increase in SG&A expense
was due largely to the increases in sales and construction  activity required to
sustain the higher levels of revenues.  SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues
decreased  by 0.4% to 9.8% in 1996  from  10.2%  in  1995,  as the  Company  was
successful in controlling its variable overhead costs while the revenue increase
offset more fixed costs.

    Interest expense  increased to  $1.5 million in 1996,  from  $1.2 million in
1995, caused by average  interest-bearing debt growing at a slightly faster pace
than the average amount of inventory under  construction  and  development.  The
Company  follows a policy  of  capitalizing  interest  only on  inventory  under
construction  or  development.  During both 1996 and 1995, a portion of incurred
interest and other  financing  costs could not be charged to  inventory  and was
expensed. Capitalized interest and other financing costs are included in cost of
sales at the time of home closings.

    Other income, which consists mainly of interest income, pretax earnings from
the Company's title operations and, in 1996, pretax earnings from  the Company's
mortgage  operations,  increased to $1.5  million in 1996,  from $0.6 million in
1995. The increase was due primarily to the fact that 1996 comprised a full year
of operations for DRH Title Company of Texas, Ltd.,  compared to only six months
in 1995.  Additionally,  DRH Title  Company of Florida,  Inc.  and DRH  Mortgage
Company, Ltd. commenced operation in 1996 and provided pretax earnings.

    The provision for income taxes increased 41.9% to $17.1 million in 1996 from
$12.0  million  in 1995,  due in part to the  corresponding  increase  in income
before  income taxes.  The  effective  tax rate  increased to 38.4% in 1996 from
36.9% in 1995. As a percentage of revenues,  the income tax provision  increased
0.4% to 3.1% in 1996.  The  increases in the  effective  tax rate and in the tax
provision  as a percentage  of revenues  were due  primarily to higher  expected
rates of state and local income taxes.





Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

    At September 30, 1997, the Company had available  cash and cash  equivalents
of $44.0 million.  Inventories  (including  finished homes and  construction  in
progress,  developed  residential  lots and other land) at  September  30, 1997,
increased by $259.3 million from September 30, 1996, due to the  acquisitions of
selected assets (including inventories) of Trimark, SGS and Torrey.  Inventories
also increased due to a general increase in business  activity and the expansion
of  operations,  including  new  markets in Tucson and  Nashville.  Because  the
inventory increase and the acquisitions were financed largely by borrowings, the
Company's  ratio  of  notes  payable  to  total  capital  increased  to 57.5% at
September 30, 1997 from 48.9% at September 30, 1996.  The equity to total assets
ratio  decreased to 36.5% at September  30,  1997,  from 44.1% at September  30,
1996.

    The  Company's  financing  needs depend upon the results of its  operations,
sales volume,  inventory  levels,  inventory  turnover,  and  acquisitions.  The
Company  has  financed  its  operations   through   borrowings   from  financial
institutions,  through  funds from  earnings  and from the public sale of Common
Stock in 1992, 1996 and 1997. In June 1997, the Company sold to the public under
its shelf registration  statement  $150,000,000 of 8 3/8% Senior Notes due 2004,
realizing net proceeds of $147.2 million.

    The Company  made three acquisitions  during fiscal 1997. In October,  1996,
the Company  completed the  acquisition of the principal  assets  (approximately
$7.6 million, primarily inventories) of Trimark for $7.0 million in cash and the
assumption  of  approximately  $1.0 million in trade  accounts and notes payable
associated with the acquired assets.  In December,  1996, the Company  purchased
the principal assets (approximately $19.5 million, primarily inventories) of SGS
for $10.6  million in cash and the  assumption  of $10.1 million in accounts and
notes  payable  associated  with the acquired  assets.  In February,  1997,  the
Company  completed the acquisition of all the  outstanding  capital stock of the
entities  comprising  Torrey  and  purchased  assets  from  affiliated entities.
Consideration was $37.6 million in cash, 844,444 newly issued, restricted shares
of the Company's  common stock,  valued at $9.2 million,  and the  assumption of
$90.0 million in accounts and notes payable.

    In June 1997, the Company  increased and  restructured  its major  unsecured
bank credit facility to $625 million.  The restructured  facility  consists of a
$200 million five year term loan, a $400 million four year term revolving  loan,
and a $25  million  four  year  letter  of  credit  facility.  The  restructured
facility, along with another $25 million unsecured bank credit facility,  brings
the Company's total borrowing capacity from banks to $625 million.

    At September 30, 1997, the Company  had outstanding debt under the unsecured
bank facilities, senior notes, and other credit agreements of $355.3 million, of
which $201.0 million represented advances under existing bank credit facilities.
Based upon the most  restrictive  of existing debt  covenants,  at September 30,
1997, the Company had additional borrowing capacity of $135.5 million.

    The  Company is required to comply with certain  covenants  contained in its
bank agreements and its Senior Notes  indenture.  The most  restrictive of these
requirements  allows the Company to pay cash dividends on its common stock in an
amount,  not to exceed,  on a cumulative  basis 50% of  consolidated  net income
subject to certain other adjustments.  Pursuant to the most restrictive of these
requirements, at September 30, 1997, the Company had approximately $31.3 million
available for the payment of dividends and for the acquisition by the Company of
its common stock.

    The  Company's  rapid growth  requires  significant  amounts of cash.  It is
anticipated  that  future  home   construction,   lot  and  land  purchases  and
acquisitions will be funded through  internally  generated funds and borrowings.
The Company  continuously  evaluates its capital structure and in the future may
seek to further  increase  unsecured debt and obtain  additional  equity to fund
ongoing operations and to pursue additional growth opportunities.

    Except  for ordinary  expenditures  for the  construction of homes and, to a
limited  extent,  the  acquisition of land and lots for  development and sale of
homes,  at  September  30,  1997,  the Company had no material  commitments  for
capital expenditures.





Inflation

    The  Company,  as well  as the  homebuilding  industry  in  general,  may be
adversely affected during periods of high inflation, primarily because of higher
land and construction costs.  Inflation also increases the Company's  financing,
labor  and  material  costs.  In  addition,   higher  mortgage   interest  rates
significantly  affect the  affordability  of  permanent  mortgage  financing  to
prospective  homebuyers.  The Company  attempts to pass through to its customers
any  increases  in its  costs  through  increased  sales  prices  and,  to date,
inflation  has not had a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of
operations.  However,  there  is no  assurance  that  inflation  will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's future results of operations.


Safe Harbor Statement

    Certain statements in this Annual Report to Shareholders, which includes the
Company's Form 10-K, as well as statements made by the Company in periodic press
releases, and oral statements made by the  Company's officials  to analysts  and
stockholders in the course of  presentations about the Company, may be construed
as "Forward-Looking  Statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.  Such statements may involve  unstated risks,  uncertainties
and other factors that may cause actual results to differ  materially from those
initially anticipated.  Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but
are not limited  to,  changes in general  economic  condition,  fluctuations  in
interest rates,  increases in costs of material,  supplies and labor and general
competitive conditions.





ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

































                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors
D.R. Horton, Inc.


    We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of D. R.
Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1997 and 1996, and the related
consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period  ended  September  30,  1997.  These  financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion,  the financial  statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position of D. R. Horton,
Inc. and  subsidiaries  at  September  30, 1997 and 1996,  and the  consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  September  30, 1997,  in conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.


                                                  /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Fort Worth, Texas
November 7, 1997



























                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS







          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME




















          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY










          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS









          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE A - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    Business:  The Company is engaged primarily in the  construction and sale of
single-family  housing in 21 states in the United States.  The Company  designs,
builds and sells single-family  houses on finished lots which it purchases ready
for home  construction.  The Company also purchases  undeveloped land to develop
into finished lots for future construction of single-family  houses and for sale
to others.  The Company also  provides  title  agency and  mortgage  services in
selected markets;  however, such activities are not material to the consolidated
operating results of the Company.

    Principles of Consolidation:  The consolidated financial statements  include
the  accounts  of  D.R.   Horton,   Inc.  (the  Company)  and  its  wholly-owned
subsidiaries.  Intercompany  accounts and  transactions  have been eliminated in
consolidation.

    Accounting   Principles:   The  preparation   of  financial   statements  in
accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying  notes.  Actual results could differ materially from
those estimates.

    Statements  of  Financial   Accounting   Standards:  Statement  of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 123 "Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  ("FAS
123"), issued in October 1995,  establishes  financial  accounting and reporting
standards for stock-based employee  compensation plans. The Company adopted this
Standard in fiscal  1996.  As  permitted  by FAS 123, the Company has elected to
continue to use  Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for
Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related  Interpretations,  in accounting
for its Stock Incentive Plan. Refer to Note F.

    FAS  128  "Earnings  Per  Share",  issued in March 1997, supersedes previous
authoritative  guidance  in  this  area.  FAS  128 is  effective  for  financial
statements  for both interim and annual  periods ending after December 15, 1997,
and requires  restatement  of all  prior-period  earnings per share ("EPS") data
presented.  The new  Statement  modifies the  calculations  of primary and fully
diluted EPS and  replaces  them with basic and diluted  EPS. The adoption of FAS
128 is not expected to have a material  impact on the  Company's  previously  or
currently reported EPS data.

    FAS   131   "Disclosure   about   Segments  of  an  Enterprise  and  Related
Information",  issued in June 1997,  establishes  annual and  interim  reporting
requirements  for an  enterprise's  operating  segments and related  disclosures
about its products  and  services,  geographical  areas in which it operates and
major customers.  FAS 131 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15,  1997,  with  earlier  application  permitted.  Adoption  of FAS  131 is not
expected to materially impact the Company.

    Cash:  The  Company considers all highly liquid  investments with an initial
maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.  Amounts
in transit from title companies for home closings are included in cash.

    Cost of Sales:  Cost  of  sales  includes  home  warranty  costs,  purchased
discounts  for customer financing,  and sales commissions paid to third parties.

    Excess of  Cost Over  Net Assets  Acquired:   The excess of amounts paid for
business  acquisitions  over  the net  fair  value of the  assets  acquired  and
liabilities  assumed is  amortized  using the  straight-line  method over twenty
years.  Additional  consideration  paid in subsequent periods under the terms of
purchase agreements are included as acquisition costs.  Amortization expense was
$114,000,   $188,000  and  $977,000  in  1995,  1996  and  1997,   respectively.
Accumulated  amortization  was $344,000 and $1,321,000 at September 30, 1996 and
1997, respectively.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


    Estimated Fair  Value of Financial Instruments:  The estimated fair value of
financial  instruments  is  determined  by reference to various  market data and
other valuation techniques as appropriate. The carrying amounts of cash and cash
equivalents  and trade  payables  approximate  fair  value  because of the short
maturity of these  financial  instruments.  At September  30, 1997 the estimated
fair value of the Company's debt approximated $359.4 million and the fair market
value of the net obligation under the interest rate swap agreement  approximated
$1.9 million.

    Fair value  estimates are made at specific  points in time based on relevant
market  information  and  information  about  the  financial  instrument.  These
estimates are subjective in nature, involve matters of significant judgment and,
therefore,  cannot be determined  with precision.  Changes in assumptions  could
significantly affect estimates.

    Interest:    The  Company   capitalizes  interest  during  development   and
construction.  Capitalized  interest  is charged to cost of sales as the related
inventory is delivered to the home buyer. Interest costs are (in thousands):



    Inventories:   Inventories  are   stated  at  the  lower  of cost  (specific
identification  method) or net  realizable  value.  In  addition  to direct land
acquisition,  land development and direct housing construction costs,  inventory
costs include interest and real estate taxes, which are capitalized in inventory
during  the  development  and   construction   periods.   Residential  lots  are
transferred  to  construction  in progress when building  permits are requested.
Land and development costs,  capitalized interest and real estate taxes incurred
during land development are allocated to individual lots on a prorata basis.

    Net Income Per Share:  Net income per share is based upon the average number
of shares of common stock outstanding  during each year and the effect of common
stock equivalents related to dilutive stock options.

    Property  and  Equipment:  Property  and  equipment,  including  model  home
furniture,  are stated on the basis of cost. Major renewals and improvements are
capitalized.  Repairs and  maintenance  are expensed as  incurred.  Depreciation
generally is provided using the  straight-line  method over the estimated useful
life of the asset.  Accumulated depreciation was $5,000,000 and $8,213,000 as of
September 30, 1996 and 1997, respectively.

    Revenue  Recognition:  Revenue  generally  is recognized  at the time of the
closing of a sale, when title to and possession of the property  transfer to the
buyer.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)



NOTE B - NOTES PAYABLE



    On May 21, 1997, the Company filed a universal shelf registration  statement
with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  for up to $250  million  of the
Company's debt and equity securities.  The universal shelf registration provides
that  securities  may be offered  from time to time in one or more series and in
the form of senior,  senior subordinated or subordinated debt,  preferred stock,
common stock, and/or warrants to purchase such securities.  On June 9, 1997, the
Company  utilized  this  universal  shelf  registration to issue $150 million of
8 3/8% senior unsecured notes at  98.419%.  The Senior Notes, which are due June
15, 2004, with interest payable semi-annually,  represent unsecured  obligations
of the Company.   The  Senior Notes  are not redeemable  except that  35% of the
amount  originally  issued  can be  redeemed  with proceeds  of  a public equity
offering by the Company at a redemption price of 108.375% through June 15, 2000.

    Maturities of notes payable,  assuming the revolving lines of credit are not
extended,  are $5.2 million in 1998, $2.0 million in 1999, $0.7 million in 2000,
$200.0 million in 2002 and $147.4 million in 2004. The weighted average interest
rates of the  unsecured  bank debt at September  30, 1996 and 1997 were 7.5% and
7.1%, respectively.

    The Senior Notes are senior  obligations of the  Company and rank pari passu
in right of payment to all  existing  and future unsecured  indebtedness  of the
Company.   These  Notes  are  guaranteed  by  essentially  all of  the Company's
subsidiaries.

    The bank credit facilities and the Senior Notes indenture  contain covenants
which, taken together, limit investments in inventory,  stock repurchases,  cash
dividends  and other  restricted  payments,  incurrence of  indebtedness,  asset
dispositions  and creation of liens,  and require certain levels of tangible net
worth.  At September 30, 1997,  these  covenants  limit the additional  debt the
Company could incur to $135.5 million.

    The Company is required to comply with certain  covenants  contained  in its
bank agreements and its Senior Notes  indenture.  The most  restrictive of these
requirements  allows the Company to pay cash dividends on its common stock in an
amount not to exceed,  on a cumulative basis, 50% of consolidated net income, as
defined,  after June 4, 1997, subject to certain other adjustments.  Pursuant to
the most restrictive of these requirements,  the Company had approximately $31.3
million  available for the payment of dividends and for the  acquisition  by the
Company of its common stock at September 30, 1997.

    Upon a change of  control of the  Company, holders of the Senior  Notes have
the right to require  the  Company to redeem the Senior Notes at a price of 101%
of the par amount, along with accrued and unpaid interest.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


    In addition to the stated interest  rates,  various  bank credit  facilities
require  the  Company to pay  certain  fees.  The  syndicated  revolving  credit
facility also provides $25 million for use as standby letters of credit.

    The Company uses an interest rate swap agreement to help manage a portion of
its interest rate  exposure.  The  agreement  converts from a variable rate to a
fixed rate on a notional  amount of $100 million.  The  agreement  expires April
2001. The Company does not expect  non-performance by the counterparty,  a major
U.S. bank, and any losses incurred in the event of non-performance  would not be
material.  Net  payments  or receipts  under the  Company's  interest  rate swap
agreement are recorded as adjustments to interest incurred.  As a result of this
agreement,  the Company  incurred net interest  expense of $0.4 million and $0.7
million during 1996 and 1997, respectively.


NOTE C - ACQUISITIONS

    In 1995 and 1997, the Company made the following acquisitions:



    Consideration  includes cash  paid, Company stock  issued, and assumption of
certain accounts  payable and notes payable which were repaid  subsequent to the
acquisitions.

    Except for the Torrey Group, where stock was a component of  the acquisition
price, the above acquisitions contain provisions for additional consideration to
be paid annually for up to four years  subsequent to the  acquisition  date. The
additional  consideration is based upon subsequent pretax income, adjusted for a
preferential  return  to the  Company.  Such  additional  consideration  will be
recorded when paid as excess cost over net assets  acquired,  which is amortized
using the straight line method over 20 years. All of the acquired  companies are
involved in  homebuilding  and land  development.  The Company has accounted for
these  acquisitions under the purchase method and has included the operations of
the acquired  businesses  in its  Consolidated  Statements of Income since their
acquisition.

    The  following  unaudited pro  forma summaries  of combined  operations were
prepared  to  illustrate  the  estimated  effects  of the 1997  acquisitions  of
Trimark, SGS and Torrey as if such acquisitions had occurred on the first day of
the respective periods presented.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


    The pro forma information should be read in conjunction with the  historical
financial statements and notes thereto.  The pro forma financial  information is
provided for comparative purposes only and is not necessarily  indicative of the
results  which would have been  obtained if the  acquisitions  had been affected
throughout  the period.  The pro forma  financial  information is based upon the
purchase method of accounting.




NOTE D - STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    On  April 20,  1995 and  April 22,  1996,  the Board of  Directors  declared
common stock dividends of 9% and 8%, respectively. On August 15, 1995, the Board
of Directors declared a seven-for-five stock split effected in the form of a 40%
stock  dividend  on its common  stock.  Accordingly,  the $.01 par value for the
additional  shares issued,  in respect of the  seven-for-five  stock split,  was
transferred  from  additional  paid-in-capital  to common stock.  Net income per
share and weighted  average shares  outstanding  for all periods  presented have
been restated to reflect the stock dividends and the stock split.


NOTE E - PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary  differences
between the carrying  amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  reporting
purposes  and the  amounts  used for  income  tax  purposes.  These  differences
primarily  relate to the  capitalization  of  inventory  costs,  the  accrual of
warranty  costs,  and  depreciation.  The  Company's  deferred  tax  assets  and
liabilities are not significant.

    The  difference between  income tax expense and tax computed by applying the
federal statutory income tax rate to income before taxes is due primarily to the
effect of applicable state income taxes.

     Income tax expense consists of:






                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


NOTE F - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

    The D.R. Horton,  Inc. Profit Sharing Plus plan is a 401(k) plan for Company
employees. The Company matches 50% of employees' voluntary contributions up to a
maximum of 3% of each participant's earnings.  Additional employer contributions
in the form of profit sharing are at the discretion of the Company. Expenses for
this  Plan  were  $233,000,  $327,000  and  $569,000  for  1995,  1996 and 1997,
respectively.

    The  Company's   Supplemental   Executive   Retirement  Plans  (SERP's)  are
non-qualified  deferred  compensation  programs that provide benefits payable to
certain  management   employees  upon  retirement,   death,  or  termination  of
employment  with the  Company.  SERP No. 1 provides  for  voluntary  deferral of
compensation  which is invested under a trust  agreement.  All salary  deferrals
under this Plan have been accrued and the  investments  are recorded as an other
asset. Under SERP No. 2, the Company accrues an unfunded benefit,  as well as an
interest  factor  based  upon a  predetermined  formula.  The  Company  recorded
$347,000,  $313,000  and  $543,000 of expense  for SERP No. 2 in 1995,  1996 and
1997, respectively.

    Effective  January 1, 1994, the Company adopted the D.R. Horton,  Inc. Stock
Tenure  Plan (an  Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan),  covering  those  employees
generally  not  participating  in  certain  other  D.R.  Horton  benefit  plans.
Contributions  are made at the  discretion of the Company.  Expenses  related to
Company  contributions  of common  stock to the plan of  $106,000,  $229,000 and
$309,000 were recognized for 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.

    In 1996, the Company adopted the  D.R. Horton, Inc. Employee Stock  Purchase
Plan,  which allows  employees to purchase  stock  directly  from the Company at
market value.

    At September 30, 1997, 219,150 shares of common stock have been reserved for
future issuance under the stock tenure and stock purchase plans.

    The D.R. Horton, Inc. 1991 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the granting of
stock  options to certain key  employees  of the  Company to purchase  shares of
common stock. Options have been granted at exercise prices which approximate the
market value of the  Company's  common  stock at the date of the grant.  Options
generally  expire 10 years  after the dates on which they were  granted and vest
evenly over the life of the option.  At September 30, 1997,  3,145,060 shares of
common stock have been authorized for future issuance under this plan.  Activity
under the plan is:



    Exercise  prices for options  outstanding at September 30, 1997, ranged from
$1.804 to $10.6875.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


    For stock options outstanding at September 30, 1997:



    The Company  has elected  to follow  Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25  in accounting  for its employee  stock  options.  The exercise  price of the
Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock
on the date of grant, and therefore no compensation  expense is recognized.  FAS
No. 123 requires  disclosure  of pro forma income and pro forma income per share
as if the fair value based  method had been  applied in  measuring  compensation
expense for option awards granted in fiscal 1996 and 1997.  Management  believes
the fiscal  1996 and 1997 pro forma  amounts  may not be  representative  of the
effects of option awards on future pro forma net income and pro forma net income
per share  because  options  granted  before  1996 are not  considered  in these
calculations.  Application  of the fair value  method,  as specified by FAS 123,
would   decrease   net  income  by  $78,000  and  $250,000  in  1996  and  1997,
respectively.

    The  weighted average fair values of grants made in 1996 and 1997 were $5.13
and $4.77, respectively.

    The fair values of the options granted  were estimated  on the date of their
grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model  based on  the  following
weighted average assumptions:







                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


NOTE G - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The  Company is involved in lawsuits and other contingencies in the ordinary
course of business.  Management believes that, while the ultimate outcome of the
contingencies  cannot be predicted with certainty,  the ultimate  liability,  if
any,  will  not  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  financial
position.

    In  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  the  Company  enters  into  option
agreements to purchase land and developed lots.  Cash deposits of  approximately
$8.0  million,   standby  letters  of  credit  approximating  $2.5  million  and
promissory notes  approximating  $1.7 million at September 30, 1997,  secure the
Company's performance under these agreements.

    The  Company  leases  office  space under  noncancelable  operating  leases.
Minimum  annual lease  payments  under these leases at September  30, 1997,  are
approximately:



    Rent expense  approximated  $989,000,  $1,140,000,  and $1,883,000 for 1995,
1996 and 1997, respectively.

    In  the normal  course of its  business  activities,  the  Company  provides
standby letters of credit and  performance  bonds,  issued by third parties,  to
secure performance under various contracts.  At September 30, 1997,  outstanding
standby  letters of credit were $7.1  million and  performance  bonds were $46.8
million.





                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


NOTE H - SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

    The 8 3/8% Senior Notes due June, 2004, in the aggregate principal amount of
$150,000,000,  are fully and unconditionally  guaranteed, on a joint and several
basis,  by all of the  Company's  direct and  indirect  subsidiaries  other than
certain inconsequential  subsidiaries.  Each of the guarantors is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company.  Summarized financial  information of the Company and
its subsidiaries is presented  below.  Separate  financial  statements and other
disclosures  concerning  the guarantor  subsidiaries  are not presented  because
management has determined that they are not material to investors.

    As of and for the periods ended: (In thousands)







                       D.R. HORTON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)


NOTE I - QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

    Quarterly  results of operations  are:  (In thousands,  except for per share
amounts)





















ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    None.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The  information  required  by  this  item is set forth  under  the  caption
"Election  of  Directors"  at pages 3 through 5 and the caption  "Section  16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" at page 12, of the registrant's Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders to be held on January 22, 1998
and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The  information  required  by this  item is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Executive  Compensation"  at  pages  6  through  11 of the  registrant's  Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders to be held on January 22, 1998
and incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The  information  required  by this  item is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Beneficial  Ownership  of Common  Stock"  at pages 2 and 3 of the  registrant's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 22,
1998 and incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The  information  required  by this  item is set  forth  under  the  caption
"Executive  Compensation  Transactions  with  Management"  at  page  11  of  the
registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on January 22, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

       (a)The following documents are filed as part of this report:

 1. Financial Statements:

    See Item 8 above.

 2. Financial Statement Schedules:

    Schedules  for  which   provision  is  made  in  the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") are not
required under the related  instructions  or are not  applicable,  and therefore
have been omitted.





 3. Exhibits:







- ----------
    (1)Incorporated  by reference from  Exhibit 3.1 to the  Registrant's  Annual
       Report on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995,  filed
       with the Commission on November 22, 1995.

    (2)Incorporated   by   reference  from  Exhibit  3.1  to  the   Registrant's
       Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,  1997,
       filed with the Commission on May 14, 1997.

    (3)Incorporated  by  reference  from  Exhibit  4.1(a)  to  the  Registrant's
       Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3  (No.  333-27521), filed  with the
       Commission on May 21, 1997.

    (4)Incorporated  by  reference  from  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registrant's  Form
       8-K/A dated April 1, 1997, filed with the Commission on June 6, 1997.

    (5)Filed herewith.

    (6)Incorporated  by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's  Annual
       Report on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995,  filed
       with the Commission on November 22, 1995.

    (7)Incorporated  by reference from the Registrant's  Registration  Statement
       on  Form S-1 (No.  33-46554) declared effective by the Commission on June
       4, 1992.

    (8)Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

    (9)Incorporated  by reference from the Registrant's  Annual Report Form 10-K
       for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1994,  filed with the Commission
       on December 9, 1994.

   (10)Incorporated  by reference from Exhibit 10.2e to the Registrant's  Annual
       Report on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995,  filed
       with the Commission on November 22, 1995.

   (11)Incorporated   by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.3  to  the   Registrant's
       Registration Statement  on Form S-1  (Registration  No. 33-81856),  filed
       with the Commission on July 22, 1994.

   (12)Incorporated  by reference  from the  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form
       10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1992,  filed  with the
       Commission on March 29, 1993.

   (13)Incorporated by reference from the  Registrant's  Transitional  Report on
       Form 10-K for the period  from  January 1, 1993 to  September  30,  1993,
       filed with the Commission on December 28, 1993.

   (14)Incorporated  herein by reference  from Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's
       Form 8-K dated June 12, 1997, filed with the Commission on June 19, 1997.


       (b)There have been  no reports filed on Form 8-K by the Registrant during
          the quarter ended September 30, 1997.





                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: December 8, 1997                      D.R. HORTON, INC.

                                            By     /s/   DONALD R. HORTON
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                       Donald R. Horton,
                                             Chairman of the Board and President

    Pursuant  to the  requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                              CORPORATE INFORMATION


    D.R. Horton,  Inc. (the "Company")  is engaged primarily in the construction
and sale of  single-family  homes.  The Company offers  high-quality  homes with
custom features, designed principally for the entry-level and move-up segments.

    The Company  has established a unique  marketing  niche,  offering a broader
selection  of homes  that  typically  have more  amenities  and  greater  design
flexibility than homes offered by volume builders,  at prices that are generally
more affordable than those charged by local custom  builders.  D.R. Horton homes
range in size from 1,000 to 5,000  square  feet and are priced  from  $80,000 to
$600,000.  For the year ended September 30, 1997, the Company closed 5,018 homes
with an average sales price of approximately $166,700.

    The Company  is  geographically  diversified,  operating in 21 states and 28
markets. Plans call for continued expansion in current markets, as well as entry
into new markets that have  significant  entry-level and move-up market segments
consistent with the Company's product and pricing strategy.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS                       Transfer Agent and Registrar

Donald R. Horton                             American Stock Transfer & Trust Co.
Chairman and President (2)(3)                New York, NY

Richard Beckwitt
Executive Vice President and                 Investor Relations
President -Investments Division (2)(3)
                                             David J. Keller
Richard I. Galland                           D.R. Horton, Inc.
Former Chief Executive Officer and           1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100
Chairman of Fina, Inc. (1) (2)               Arlington, Texas  76006
                                             (817)856-8200
Richard L. Horton
Former Vice President - Dallas/Fort Worth
East Division                                Annual Meeting

Terrill J. Horton                            January 22, 1998, 9:30 a.m. C.S.T.
Former Vice President - Dallas/Fort Worth
North Division                               At the Corporate Offices of 
                                             D.R. Horton, Inc.     
David J. Keller                              1901 Ascension Blvd., Suite 100
Executive Vice President, Treasurer          Arlington, Texas  76006
 & Chief Financial Officer (2)(3)

Francine I. Neff
Former Treasurer of the United States (1)

Scott J. Stone
Former Vice President  - Eastern Region

Donald J. Tomnitz
President  - Homebuilding Division
- ----------
(1) Audit Committee Member
(2) Compensation Committee Member
(3) Executive Committee Member




