ITEM  1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries (“Chipotle”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which serve a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads, made using fresh ingredients.As of December 31, 2017, we operated 2,363 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, as well as 37 international Chipotle restaurants, and we also had eight non-Chipotle restaurants. We focus on finding fresh, high-quality raw ingredients to make great tasting food prepared using classic cooking methods; on building strong restaurant teams that are centered on providing an excellent guest experience; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with the highest regard for the safety of our customers and with a continuing awareness of and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 130 and 150 new restaurants in 2018, representing a slight reduction in our rate of new openings as we focus our resources on improving our operations and delivering an outstanding experience to every one of our guests.

Throughout our history, we have pursued a mission to change the way people think about and eat fast food. The fast food landscape has changed dramatically over Chipotle’s 24-year history suggesting that we may have achieved this mission, with a number of concepts built using service and sourcing formats that closely resemble ours – with more selective sourcing, food prepared on-site, and a service model that allows customers to choose exactly what they eat. Looking at what we have accomplished, we have reenvisioned our purpose, and are working toCultivate nourished communities where wholesome food is enjoyed every day. We are also aiming to simplify our business focus, to emphasize only those things that result in an excellent guest experience in our restaurants.

We transitioned the management of our restaurants from eleven to nine regions during the fourth quarter of 2017 and we aggregate our operations into one reportable segment. Financial information about our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, and our total assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.For a discussion of risks related to our international









operations, see “Risks Related to Our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore Our Economic Model – Our expansion into international marketshas been limited, andmay present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand…” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Our Focus on Safe and Delicious Food Made with Better Ingredients

Focused Menu.

Wholesome Food.Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our purpose so that guests can enjoy wholesome food every day. We insist on preparing, cooking, and serving nutritious food made from natural ingredients and animals that are raised or grown with care and with respect for the environment. We spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on the sources of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve the food we serve. We're all about simple, fresh food without the use of artificial colors or flavors typically found in fast food—just genuine raw ingredients and their individual, delectable flavors.

In all of our Chipotle restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that were raised in accordance with criteria we have established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare, and without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones. We brand these meats as “Responsibly Raised®.”  One of our primary goals is for all of our restaurants to serve meats raised to meet our standards, but we have and will continue to face challenges in doing so.  For example, some of our restaurants periodically serve conventionally raised chicken or beef from time to time due to supply constraints for our Responsibly Raised brand meats. In the future, more of our restaurants may periodically serve conventionally raised meats or stop serving one or more menu items due to additional supply constraints. When we become aware that one or more of our restaurants will serve conventionally raised meat, we clearly and specifically disclose this temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that customers can avoid those meats if they choose to do so.

We also seek to use more responsibly grown produce, by which we mean produce grown by suppliers whose practices conform to our priorities with respect to environmental considerations and employee welfare. Most of the beans we serve are organically grown or grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. A portion of some of the other produce items we serve is organically grown as well. Our commitment to better ingredients also extends to the dairy products we serve. In 2017, all of the sour cream and shredded cheese served in our U.S. Chipotle restaurants was made with milk that comes from cows not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone) and sourced from pasture-based dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing outdoor access for their cows.

In addition, none ofthe ingredients in our food (not including beverages) in U.S. Chipotle restaurantscontain genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. While the meat and poultry we serve is not genetically modified, the animals are likely fed a diet of grains containing GMOs.Due to the prevalence of GMOs in a number of important feed crops, the vast majority of the grains used as animal feed in the U.S. are genetically modified. Additionally, some of the beverages we serve are sweetened with corn-based sweeteners, which are typically made with genetically modified corn.

Close Relationships with Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 24 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and the suppliers’ understanding of our mission.  We work closely with our suppliers and seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols, and our distribution centers purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers. We’ve also tried to increase, where practical, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade tariffs and other issues, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world









events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (including beef, pork, chicken, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. For a discussion of risks related to our supply chain, see “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry –Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations”and “Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy –Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks”in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Quality Assurance and Food Safety.We are committed to servingsafe, high quality food.Our Executive Director of Food Safety, a respected expert in the industry, oversees our food safety programs and practices, components of which include:

﻿

﻿supplier interventions (steps to avoid food safety risks before ingredients reach Chipotle);advanced technology (tools that eliminate pathogens while maintaining food quality);farmer support and training;enhanced restaurant procedures (protocols for handling ingredients and sanitizing surfaces in our restaurants);food safety certification;internal and third party restaurant inspections; andingredient traceability.

﻿

These and other food safety practices underscore our commitment to becoming a leader in food safety while we continue to serve high quality food that our customers love. Our Executive Director of Food Safety directs a quality assurance department that establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs, and works closely with our suppliers to ensure our high standards are met throughout the supply chain. We maintain a limited list of approved suppliers, many of which are among the top suppliers in the industry. In addition, ourtraining, operations, and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness, employee health protocols, and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also intended to ensure that we not only continue to comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations, but establish Chipotle as an industry leader in food safety.

To be sure that our food safety programs continue to evolve in ways that will help maintain leadership in this important area, we have a Food Safety Advisory Council comprised of some of the nation’s foremost food safety authorities. The Food Safety Advisory Council is charged with evaluating our programs, both in practice and implementation, and advising us on ways to elevate our already high standards for food safety.

Delivering an Excellent Guest Experience

We believe there is nothing more important than treating our guests to an excellent experience every time they visit one of our restaurants, and expect that doing so will help us attract customers more frequently and engender greater customer loyalty. We have also renewed our commitment to focusing on our restaurant operations and training to elevate the experience we are providing, and ensuring greater consistency throughout all of our restaurants.  Creating an excellent guest experience starts with hiring great people, creating great teams, and training them on our high standards. We have re-tooled our restaurant compensation systems to place greater emphasis on the strength of operations and the guest experience, and revamped our training programs to better support these priorities.

Restaurant Team.Each restaurant typically has a general manager or Restaurateur (a high-performing general manager), an apprentice manager (in a majority of our restaurants), and we aim to have two or three hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 22 full and part-time crew members, though our busier restaurants tend to have slightly more employees. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We also cross-train our people so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our general managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes field leaders and team directors, as well as executive team directors who report to our Chief Restaurant Officer.

Innovation. We are prioritizing the development of technological and other innovations, such as digital/mobile ordering platforms, and delivery and catering choices, that allow our guests to engage with us in whatever fashion is most convenient for them. By allowing our customers to order and receive their food in a variety of ways, we believe we can attract more customers and encourage customers to choose us more frequently. In order to successfully deliver a great experience for more customers, we are









emphasizing the optimization of second make lines and expanding the ability to pay using Apple Pay or Android Pay. These initiatives allow us to fulfill catering or online orders without disrupting throughput on our main service line.  In fact, technological innovations can enhance the experience of other guests by helping to improve throughput for those who choose to dine in our restaurants.  Recent digital ordering innovations have allowed us to increase digital order volumes to the highest levels we’ve ever achieved, and we believe continued improvements in these areas will allow us to achieve even better results. Additionally, we have enhanced our data capabilities to allow us to better identify individual customers and their unique frequency patterns, and to target our marketing and promotional efforts at the individual level. We believe the advancements we have made in this area will help us as we continue to target lapsed customers, and seek to build frequency among newer customers.

Marketing

Our marketing program is divided into three categories: top-of-mind advertising, brand advertising and local marketing. Each of these serves a different purpose, but together they are intended to differentiate us from the competition. Top-of-mind advertising is intended to keep current and new customers coming into our restaurants; brand advertising is directed at existing customers and seeks to build deeper connections to our brand; and local advertising aims to help connect our restaurants to local communities and the customers who live there.

Our top-of-mind advertising has generally included print, outdoor, social, digital and radio advertising, but wehavealso incorporated somenational television advertising. Beyond these traditional channels, we continue to pioneer new avenues of brand advertising aimed at making consumers more curious about some of the issues that are important to us, and explaining why and how we are working to drive positive change in the nation’s food supply. We also have a dedicated team of field marketing staff that helps connect our restaurants to local communities through fundraisers, sponsorships and participation in local events.

Alongside our restaurant teams, these efforts have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity as our customers learn more about us and share with others. This approach allows us to build awareness and loyalty with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the right thing in every facet of our business.

For a discussion of risks related to our marketing, see “Risks Related to Our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore Our Economic Model–Our marketing and advertising strategies may not be successful, or may pose risks that could adversely impact our business” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Competition

The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, brand reputation, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out,online, catering,and delivery services. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally.  In recent years, competition has increased significantly from restaurant formats like ours that serve higher quality food, quickly and at a reasonable price.

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafés of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who seek higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias, and other dining outlets. Meal kit delivery companies and other eat-at-home options also present some degree of competition for our restaurants.

We believe that this competition has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of customer visits, but continue to believe that we can differentiate ourselves with our purpose to cultivate nourished communities where wholesome food is enjoyed every day.  For more information, see “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Competition could adversely affect us” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees.

Restaurant SiteSelection

We believe restaurant site selection is critical to our success and growth strategy and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential restaurant location. Our site selection process is led by our internal team of real estate managers and also includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, as well as support from an internal real estate strategy and research group. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and









available information on competitors and other restaurants. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment for each potential restaurant site. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, food courts, outlet centers, airports, military bases and train stations.

For a discussion of risks related to our expansion into new real estate types, see “Risks Related to Our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore Our Economic Model–Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and may adversely impact the sales of our existing restaurants” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Other Restaurant Concepts

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based – finding better ingredients, preparing them using classic techniques in front of the customer, and serving them in an interactive format with great teams dedicated to providing an excellent dining experience – can be adapted to cuisines other than the food served at Chipotle. Over the previous six years, we’ve explored this idea by investing in innovative concepts such as Pizzeria Locale, a fast-casual pizza restaurant that now has seven restaurants in four states, and Tasty Made, a burger restaurant we opened in Lancaster, Ohio. We also previously operated ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, but closed all of the ShopHouse locations in early 2017.  In 2018, our focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.

InformationSystems

We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each of our restaurants, and within our centralized corporate infrastructure. The services available within our systems and applications include restaurant operations, supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. The restaurant structure is based primarily on a point-of-sale system that operates locally at the restaurant and is integrated with other functions necessary to restaurant operations. It records sales transactions, receives out of store orders, and authorizes, batches, and transmits credit card transactions. The system also allows employees to enter time clock information and to produce a variety of



management reports. Select information that is captured from this system at each restaurant is collected in the c

entral corporate infrastructure, which enables management to continually monitor operating results.  Our digital ordering system allows guests to place orders online or through our mobile app. Orders taken remotely are routed to the point-of-sales system based on the time of customer order pickup. We also continue to modernize and make investments in our information technology networks and infrastructure, specifically in our physical and technological security measures to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches, and to provide improved control, security and scalability. Enhancing the security of our financial data, customer information and other personal information remains a priority for us.

In April 2017, our information security team detected unauthorized activity on the network that supports payment processing for our restaurants, and immediately began an investigation with the help of leading computer security firms. The investigation detected malware designed to access payment card data from cards used at the point-of-sale system at most of our restaurants. The malware searched for track data, which may include cardholder name, card number, expiration date, and internal verification codes; however, no other customer information was affected. We removed the malware from our systems and have been working to further enhance the security of our payment card network.

See “General Business Risks—We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” as well as Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” inItem 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”for further discussion of the payment card security incident in 2017, related legal proceedings, and other risks associated with our information systems.

Employees

As of December 31, 2017, we had about 68,890 employees, including about 5,020 salaried employees and about 63,870 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors influencing our business are described under the heading “Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”











OurIntellectualProperty and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Food With Integrity,” “Responsibly Raised,” and a number of other marks and related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of additional marks in the U.S. as well. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in additional countries. We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress and have registered elements of our restaurant design for trade dress protection in the U.S. as well.

From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials.  Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website.  You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.













﻿

