ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “we”) operate Chipotle
Mexican Grill restaurants, which serve a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads, made using fresh ingredients. As of December 31, 2012, we operated 1,410 restaurants, including Chipotle
restaurants throughout the United States, as well as five in Canada, five in London, England, and one in Paris, France, and also one ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen, a restaurant in Washington, D.C. serving Asian-inspired cuisine. We focus on
trying to find the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on recruiting and retaining top performing people to ensure that the restaurant experience we provide is exceptional; on building restaurants that are operationally
efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 165 and 180 additional restaurants in 2013.

Our vision is to change the way people think about and eat fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic approach when
creating our restaurant experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people to take care of each
customer—features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach is also guided by our belief in an idea we call “Food With Integrity.” Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we
can—ingredients that are grown or raised with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow or raise the food.

We manage our operations and restaurants based on six regions that aggregate into one reportable segment. Financial information about our
operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and our total assets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.

Our Menu and Food Preparation

Food With Integrity.Serving high
quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food. As part of our Food With Integrity philosophy, we believe that purchasing fresh ingredients and preparing them by
hand are not enough, so we spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on the sources of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of
our continuous effort to improve our food.

In all of our restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that were raised without
the use of subtherapeutic antibiotics or added hormones, and in accordance with criteria we’ve established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare. One of our primary goals is for all of our restaurants to
continue serving meats raised to meet our standards, but we have and will continue to face challenges in doing so. Some of our restaurants served conventionally raised beef for short periods during 2012 and the beginning of 2013, and more of our
restaurants may periodically serve conventionally raised meats in the future due to supply constraints. When we become aware that one or more of our restaurants will serve conventionally raised meat, we clearly and specifically disclose this
temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that customers can avoid those meats if they choose to do so.

In
the past we referred to meat raised in accordance with our criteria as “naturally raised,” but we are moving away from that terminology and instead have begun to use the Responsibly Raised brand to differentiate our meat and other
ingredients. We think the Responsibly Raised brand helps to better distinguish our ingredients from other products labeled as “naturally raised.”







We’re also investigating the use of more sustainably grown produce, meaning produce
grown by suppliers who we believe respect the environment and their employees. A portion of some of the produce items we serve is organically grown, or sourced locally while in season (by which we mean grown within 350 miles of the restaurant). A
portion of our beans is organically grown and a portion is sustainably grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. Our commitment to Food With
Integrity extends to the dairy products we serve as well. The sour cream and cheese we buy is made with milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone). Also, milk used to make much of our cheese and some of our
sour cream is sourced from dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing outdoor access for their cows.

A Few Things, Thousands of Ways.Chipotle
restaurants serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from four different meats, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough
variety to extend our menu to provide countless choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we’ll consider additions that we think make sense. And if you can’t find something on the menu that’s quite what you’re after, let us
know. If we can make it from the ingredients we have, we’ll do it.

In preparing our food, we use stoves and grills, pots
and pans, cutting knives, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak that is marinated and
grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy shredded beef) and pinto and vegetarian black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as freshly shredded cheese,
sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer’s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips
seasoned with fresh lime and kosher salt. In addition to sodas, fruit drinks and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with the majority prepared in our restaurants
while some is prepared with the same fresh ingredients in commissaries.

Food Served Fast … So That Customers Can Enjoy
It Slowly.Our employees spend hours preparing our food on-site, but each customer order can be ready in seconds. Customers select exactly what they want and how they want it by speaking directly to the employees that prepared the food and are
assembling the order. While we think that our customers return because of the great-tasting food, we also think that they like getting food served fast without having a “fast-food” experience, even when they’re not in a hurry. And
while our restaurants often have lines, we try to serve customers as quickly as possible. We’ve even been able to serve more than 300







customers an hour at some locations. The natural flow of our restaurant layout, including the floor plan and the design of our serving line, are designed to make the food ordering process
intuitive and, we believe, more efficient. And we constantly strive to improve the speed of service in all of our restaurants, so that we can accommodate more customers and larger orders without disrupting restaurant traffic. For instance, our
restaurants accept orders by fax, online or through an iPhone ordering application in order to provide a more convenient experience by allowing customers to avoid standing in line. By emphasizing speed of service without compromising the genuine
interactions between our customers and our crews, and by continually making improvements to our restaurants, we believe that we can provide a high quality experience to more and more customers.

Quality Assurance and Food Safety.We are committed to serving safe, high quality food to our customers. Quality and food safety is
integrated throughout our supply chain and everything we do; from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line. We have established close relationships with some of the top suppliers in the industry, and we actively maintain
a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs for our supply chain. Our training and risk management departments develop
and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed to assure that we comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Culture of Top Performers.

Importance of Methods and Culture.Although we have many restaurants, we believe that our departure from the automated
cooking techniques and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking methods: they marinate and grill meats, hand-cut produce and herbs, make fresh salsa and guacamole,
and cook rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a typical fast-food place. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, our focused menu
creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants.

The Front Line is Key. Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our
focus on service, and our open kitchen design allows customers to see that we prepare our food fresh, each and every day. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged to interact with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or
serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on attracting







and retaining people who can deliver that experience for each customer “one burrito at a time.” We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to
customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among general managers, crew members and customers alike.

The Basics.Each restaurant typically has a general manager (a position we’ve characterized as the most important
in the company), an apprentice manager (in about three-quarters of our restaurants), one or two hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 21 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our
restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our busier restaurants. We cross-train our people so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently
during our busiest times, while giving our people the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our general managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers
throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or area managers, team directors, executive team directors or regional
directors, and restaurant support officers.

Supply Chain

Close Relationships with Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary
supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and their understanding of our mission, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term
relationships with suppliers. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols. We’ve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help
mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (beef, pork, chicken,
beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas) are purchased from a small number of suppliers.

We generally do not purchase
raw materials directly from farmers or other suppliers, but have selected and approved suppliers from whom ingredients are purchased for our restaurants. Distribution centers purchase ingredients and other supplies from suppliers we select and
approve based on our quality specifications, and purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers.

Distribution Arrangements.Ingredients and other supplies are delivered to our restaurants from 23 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers.

Marketing

Our marketing
has always been based on the belief that the best and most recognizable brands aren’t built through advertising or promotional campaigns alone, but rather through all of the ways people experience the brand. So we pay close attention to all of
these details, looking to keep our communications closely aligned with the ways our customers experience Chipotle. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications, and other design elements all help to communicate something about
what makes Chipotle different from other fast food companies. Whether it’s engaging with our company via social media, participating in our local events or simply eating a burrito at one of our restaurants, each interaction with a customer
affords us an important opportunity to build our brand.

Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit and
radio ads, but we are also incorporating online advertising into the mix, and adding strategic promotions that demonstrate how Chipotle is different than other restaurant concepts, or that connect us to like-minded individuals or organizations.
Beyond these traditional means, we are exploring new avenues of branded and unbranded content aimed at educating consumers about issues that are important to us, and explaining why we are working to drive positive change in the nation’s food







supply. In addition, we continue to generate considerable media coverage, with scores of publications writing favorably about our food, restaurant concept and business, and our food, restaurants
and company have been featured in a number of television programs.

We also recognize the need for our marketing to evolve,
much as we have evolved our food culture and our unique people culture. To this end, we have been testing more “owned media,” including new video and music programs, and a more visible event strategy that includes the expansion of our
“Cultivate” festivals of food, music and ideas, and participation in relevant events in markets around the country. Many of these newer programs allow us to tell our story with more nuance than is afforded by traditional advertising, and
help forge stronger emotional connections with our customers. We are also increasing our use of digital, mobile, and social media to our overall marketing mix, giving customers greater opportunity to access Chipotle in ways that are convenient for
them, and broadening our ability to engage with our customers individually. Through our first ever customer loyalty program, the “Farm Team,” we are inviting our most loyal and passionate customers to join a program that educates them
about many of the things that make Chipotle special, and rewards them for expanding and sharing their knowledge of our company.

Collectively, these efforts and our excellent restaurant teams have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity, with our
customers learning about us and telling others, allowing us to build awareness with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the right things in
every facet of our business.

Competition

We compete with national and regional fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining restaurants. Our competition also includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and the deli sections and in-store
cafés of several major grocery store chains. The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region, market and even restaurant. Competitors to our restaurants compete based on a number of factors, including taste, quality, speed of
service, price and value, name recognition, location, menu variety, customer service and the ambience and condition of the competitor. Unlike us, a number of our competitors grow through franchising.

We believe we’re well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current consumer trends,
including increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared and the increasing prevalence of the fast-casual segment. Some of our competitors have formats that might resemble ours. We believe, however, that
Chipotle has become one of the most recognized fast-casual restaurants and that we are known for our focus on preparing food using a variety of fresh ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen to create delicious food, as well as our commitment to
“Food With Integrity”, which we think represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate.

Restaurant Site Selection

We believe that site selection is critical to our success and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential
location. Our site selection process includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, taking direction from our internal team of real estate managers. Locations proposed by real estate managers are reviewed on
site by a team of development management and often leaders from operations as part of a formal site ride, as well as in a written real estate package. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and
available information on competitors. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment. We have been successful in a number of different
types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, and even an airport location. Our new restaurant development activity has broadened
recently to incorporate trade areas or restaurant sites in which we have little or no prior experience, including smaller or more economically mixed communities, highway sites, outlet centers, and restaurants in airports, food courts, or on military
sites.







ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based—finding the very best sustainably raised ingredients,
prepared and cooked using classical methods in front of the customer, and served in an interactive format by special people dedicated to providing a great dining experience—can be adapted to cuisines other than the food we serve at Chipotle. In
order to see how our model works when we use different ingredients and a different style of food, we opened our first ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen during 2011. ShopHouse serves a menu that, like at Chipotle, is focused; main dishes consist of
rice or noodle bowls made with steak, chicken, meatballs made with pork and chicken, or tofu. Notwithstanding our opening of ShopHouse and our plans in 2013 to open another ShopHouse restaurant in Washington, D.C. and to introduce ShopHouse to the
Los Angeles area, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and
profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall
months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year.

Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks

“Chipotle,”
“Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands,” “Responsibly Raised,”
“ShopHouse” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered
trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks
in various countries as well.

We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to
time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not
be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Information Systems

Chipotle uses an integrated information system to manage the flow of information within each restaurant and between the restaurants and
the corporate office. This system includes a point-of-sales local area network that helps facilitate the operations of the restaurant by recording sales transactions and printing orders in the appropriate locations within the restaurant.
Additionally, the point-of-sales system is used to authorize, batch and transmit credit card transactions, to record employee time clock information, and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this
system is transmitted to the corporate office on a daily basis, which enables management to continually monitor operating results. We believe that our current point-of-sales systems will be an adequate platform to support our continued expansion.
See “Risk Factors—General Business Risks—We may incur costs resulting from security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information” below for a
discussion of certain risks associated with our point-of-sales systems.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had about 37,310 employees, including about 3,020 salaried employees and about 34,290 hourly employees.
None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.







Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and
other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You
can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should
not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



