ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican
Grill, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “we”) operate Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which serve a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads,
made using fresh ingredients. As of December 31, 2014, we operated 1,755 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, as well as seven in Canada, six in England, three in France, and one in Germany. Additionally, our restaurants include
nine ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, serving Asian-inspired cuisine, and we are an investor in a consolidated entity that owns and operates two Pizzeria Locale restaurants, a fast casual pizza concept, resulting in a total of 1,783
restaurants as of December 31, 2014. We focus on trying to find the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on building a special people culture that is centered on creating a team of top performers empowered to achieve
high standards; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect
to open between 190 and 205 additional restaurants in 2015, including a small number of ShopHouse and Pizzeria Locale restaurants.

Our vision is to change the way people think about and eat fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic approach when creating our restaurant experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for
inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people







to take care of each customer—features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach is also guided by our belief in an idea we call “Food With
Integrity.” Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we can—ingredients that are grown or raised with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow or raise the food.

We manage our operations and restaurants based on eight regions that aggregate into one reportable segment. Financial information about
our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, and our total assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes
in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S. For a discussion of risks related to our international operations, see “Risks Related
to Our Growth Strategy and Future Expansion—Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors” in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors.”

Our Menu and Food Preparation

Food With Integrity.Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food. As part of our Food With
Integrity philosophy, we believe that purchasing fresh ingredients and preparing them by hand are not enough, so we spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we
can concentrate on the sources of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve our food.

In all of our restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that were raised without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones, and in accordance with criteria we’ve established in an
effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare. We brand these meats as “Responsibly Raised

TM

.” One of our primary goals is for all of our
restaurants to serve meats raised to meet our standards, but we have and will continue to face challenges in doing so. In January 2015, through an ongoing audit of our suppliers, we identified a pork supplier that was not meeting our standards
related to the size and condition of the housing offered to some of the pigs, so we suspended our purchases from this supplier. Without this supply, we cannot get enough pork that meets our standards for all of our restaurants and we will not be
able to serve carnitas in about one-third of our U.S. restaurants until we can find additional sources which meet our standards to make up the shortfall. In addition, some of our restaurants served conventionally raised beef and chicken for periods
during 2014, and we expect some to serve conventionally raised beef in 2015, due to supply constraints for our Responsibly Raised meats. More of our restaurants may periodically serve conventionally raised meats in the future due to additional
supply constraints. When we become aware that one or more of our restaurants will serve conventionally raised meat, we clearly and specifically disclose this temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that customers can avoid those
meats if they choose to do so.

We also seek to use more responsibly grown produce, meaning produce grown by suppliers who we
believe respect the environment and their employees. A portion of some of the produce items we serve is organically grown, and/or sourced locally while in season (by which we mean grown within 350 miles of the restaurant where it is served). A
portion of our beans is organically grown and a portion is grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. Our commitment to Food With Integrity
extends to the dairy products we serve as well. The sour cream and cheese we buy is made with milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone). Also, milk used to make much of our cheese and all our sour cream is
sourced from pasture-based dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing outdoor access for their cows. Further, we disclose on our website which ingredients contain genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, and we are
working to replace ingredients containing GMOs in our food (not including beverages) with non-GMO ingredients. While the meat and poultry we serve is not genetically modified, the animals are likely fed a diet containing GMOs. Because of the
prevalence of GMOs in a number of important feed crops, most grains used as animal feed in the U.S. are genetically modified.







A Few Things, Thousands of Ways.Chipotle restaurants serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from four different meats or tofu, two
types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough variety to extend our menu to provide countless choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we’ll consider additions that we think make
sense, such as the recent introduction in all U.S. and Canadian markets of Sofritas, our vegan protein option made with braised organic tofu. And if customers can’t find something on the menu that’s quite what they’re after, we
encourage them to let us know. If we can make it from the ingredients we have, we’ll do it.

In preparing our food, we use
stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak
that is marinated and grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy shredded beef) and vegetarian pinto and black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as
freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer’s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole,
salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with fresh lime juice and kosher salt. In addition to sodas, fruit drinks and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with the
majority prepared in our restaurants while some is prepared with the same fresh ingredients in larger batches in commissaries.

Food Served Fast … So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly.

mise en place







customers and larger orders without disrupting restaurant traffic. For instance, our restaurants accept orders by fax, online or through an iPhone or Android ordering application in order to
provide a more convenient experience by allowing customers to avoid standing in line. By emphasizing speed of service without compromising the genuine interactions between our customers and our crews, and by continually making improvements to our
restaurant operations, we believe that we can provide a high quality experience to more and more customers.

Quality
Assurance and Food Safety.We are committed to serving safe, high quality food to our customers. Quality and food safety are integrated throughout our supply chain and everything we do; from the farms that supply our food all the way through to
our front line. We have established close relationships with some of the top suppliers in the industry, and we actively maintain a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department
establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs for our supply chain. Our training and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our
food safety programs are also designed to ensure that we comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Culture of Top Performers.

Importance of Methods and Culture.Although we have many restaurants, we believe that our departure from
the automated cooking techniques and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking methods: they marinate and grill meats, hand-cut produce and herbs, make fresh salsa
and guacamole, and cook rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a typical fast-food place. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, our
focused menu creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants.

The Front Line is Key. Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our focus on service, and our open kitchen design allows customers to
see that we prepare our food fresh throughout each and every day. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged to interact with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on
attracting and retaining people who can deliver that experience for each customer. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe
our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among general managers, crew members and customers alike.







Restaurant Team.Each restaurant typically has a general manager or
Restaurateur (a position we’ve characterized as the most important in the company), an apprentice manager (in most of our restaurants), and we aim to have one to three hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average
of 24 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our busier restaurants. We cross-train our people so that
each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our general
managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or
area managers, team directors, executive team directors or regional directors, and restaurant support officers.

Supply Chain

Close Relationships with Suppliers.

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Failure to
receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations”

Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy—Our Food With Integrity philosophy
subjects us to risks”

Distribution Arrangements.Ingredients and
other supplies are delivered to our restaurants by our independently owned and operated regional distribution centers.

Marketing

A great dining experience in our restaurants is our most powerful marketing of all. But there is still a need to introduce
our brand to consumers in other ways, and to help them understand what makes Chipotle different than other restaurants. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications, and other design elements all help to communicate something
about what differentiates Chipotle from other fast food companies. Whether it’s engaging with our company via social media, participating in our local events or simply eating a burrito at one of our restaurants, each customer interaction
affords us an important opportunity to build our brand.

Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit and
radio ads, but we also incorporate online advertising into the mix, and conduct strategic promotions that demonstrate our Food With Integrity mission while connecting us to like-minded individuals or organizations. Beyond these traditional channels,
we are continuing to explore and pioneer new avenues of branded content aimed at making consumers more curious about issues that are important to us, and explaining why and how we are working to drive positive change in the nation’s food
supply. In addition, we continue to generate considerable media coverage, with scores of publications writing favorably about our food, restaurant concept and business.

We also recognize the need for our marketing to evolve, much as we have evolved our unique food and people cultures. To this end, we have been developing more “owned media,” including new video
and music programs, a more visible event strategy that includes our “Cultivate” food, music and ideas festivals, and participation in relevant events in markets around the country. Many of these newer programs allow us to tell our







story with more nuance than is afforded by traditional advertising, and help forge stronger emotional connections with our customers. We have also increased our use of digital, mobile, and social
media in our overall marketing mix, giving customers greater opportunity to access Chipotle in ways that are convenient for them and broadening our ability to engage with our customers individually.

Collectively, these efforts and our excellent restaurant teams have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity as our customers
learn more about us and share with others. This approach allows us to build awareness and loyalty with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the
right thing in every facet of our business.

Competition

The fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service,
location, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in,
carry-out and delivery services. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. Unlike Chipotle, a number of our competitors grow through
franchising.

Several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as lower in fat,
carbohydrates, or calories or otherwise better for customers, or targeted at particular dietary preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segment of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, “value
meal” menu options, a strategy we do not currently pursue.

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast
casual and quick service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafés of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who seek
higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias and other dining outlets. These competitors may have, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, more
effective marketing and more efficient operations than we do. For more information, see “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Competition could adversely affect us” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

We believe we are well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current consumer
trends, including increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared as well as the increasing prevalence of the fast-casual segment. Some of our competitors have formats that might resemble ours, but we
believe that Chipotle has become one of the most recognized restaurants in the U.S. We also believe we are known for our focus on having teams of top-performing employees using classic cooking techniques to prepare food made from high-quality whole
ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen to create delicious food, as well as our commitment to “Food With Integrity.” We think this unique combination adds up to an excellent customer experience in our restaurants, which we believe
represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate.

Restaurant Site Selection

We believe site selection is critical to our success and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential location.
Our site selection process includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, taking direction from our internal team of real estate managers. Locations proposed by real estate managers are reviewed by development
management as part of a formal site ride, as well as in a written real estate package. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information on competitors. Based on this analysis,
including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in
strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, food courts, and airports. Our







new restaurant development activity has broadened to incorporate trade areas or restaurant sites in which we have little or no prior experience, including smaller or more economically mixed
communities, highway sites, outlet centers, and on military bases.

ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen and Pizzeria Locale

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based—finding the very best sustainably raised ingredients,
prepared and cooked using classical methods in front of the customer, and served in an interactive format by special people dedicated to providing a great dining experience—can be adapted to cuisines other than the food we serve at Chipotle.

In order to see how our model works when we use different ingredients and a different style of food, we opened our first
ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen during 2011 and we now have a total of nine ShopHouse restaurants. ShopHouse serves a menu that, like at Chipotle, is focused; main dishes consist of rice or noodle bowls made with steak, chicken, meatballs made
with pork and chicken, or tofu. Further, during 2013, we invested in a consolidated entity that now owns and operates two Pizzeria Locale restaurants, a fast casual pizza concept serving a menu that includes classic pizzas and salads, from a
selection of high-quality ingredients.

Notwithstanding our opening of ShopHouse and investment in Pizzeria Locale, and our
plans in 2015 for a small number of additional ShopHouse and Pizzeria Locale restaurants, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from
quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months)
than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the
academic year. Seasonal factors, however, might be moderated or outweighed by other factors that may influence our quarterly results, such as fluctuations in food or packaging costs or the timing of menu price increases.

Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat
With Your Hands,” “Responsibly Raised,” “ShopHouse” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In
addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican
Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in various countries as well.

We also believe that the design of
our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend
vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Information Systems

We
use an integrated architecture of applications and systems to manage the flow of information within each restaurant, and within our centralized corporate infrastructure. The restaurant structure includes a point-of-sales system that operates
locally at the restaurant and is integrated with other functions necessary to restaurant operations. It records sales transactions, receives out of store orders, and authorizes, batches and transmits credit card transactions. The system also
allows employees to enter time clock information and to produce a variety of







management reports. Select information that is captured from this system at each restaurant is collected in the central corporate infrastructure, which enables management to continually monitor
operating results. The services available within this infrastructure include supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. We believe that our current systems will be an
adequate platform to support our continued expansion.

In addition to processing payment card transactions and collecting and
storing information about our employees, we also collect and store information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs. We are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding
significant amounts of employee or customer information on our behalf. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is
increasingly demanding. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which information may have been stolen, including a number of highly publicized incidents with well-known retailers in recent years. See
“General Business Risks—We may incur costs resulting from security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information” in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors,” for a discussion of risks associated with our information systems.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had about 53,090 employees, including about 4,590 salaried employees and about 48,500 hourly employees.
None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important
information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations
section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is
located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The
contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



