ITEM  1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with itssubsidiaries (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “we”) operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which serve a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads, made using fresh ingredients.  As of December 31, 2016, we operated 2,198 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, as well as 29 international Chipotle restaurants, and we also had 23 restaurants in operation in other non-Chipotle concepts. We focus on finding the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on building a strong people culture that is centered on providing an excellent guest experience; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with the highest regard for the safety of our customers and increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 195 and 210 additional restaurants in 2017.

Throughout our history as a public company, we have pursued a mission to change the way people think about and eat fast food. The fast food landscape has changed dramatically over Chipotle’s 23-year history.  The changes in the industry suggest that we may have achieved our mission, with a number of concepts built using service and sourcing formats that closely resemble ours – with more selective sourcing, food prepared onsite, and a service model that allows customers to choose exactly what they eat. Looking at what we have accomplished, we have expanded our mission. Today, we are working toEnsure that better food, prepared from whole, unprocessed ingredients is accessible to everyone. We are also aiming to simplify our business focus, to emphasize only those things that result in an excellent guest experience in our restaurants.

We manage our operations and restaurants based on 11 regions that aggregate into one reportable segment. Financial information about our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and our total assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.For a discussion of risks related to our international operations, seeRisks Related to Our Plans to Return to Sales and









Profitability Growth and Restore Our Economic Model – Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand…” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Our Focus on Safe and Delicious Food Made with Better Ingredients

A decidedly focused menu.Chipotle restaurants list only a few entree items: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from five different meats or tofu, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough variety to extend our menu to provide thousands of choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but will consider additions that we think make sense. For example, in 2014 we introduced Sofritas, a vegetarian protein option, and in 2016 we introduced chorizo, a spicy ground sausage made from chicken and pork.

In preparing our food, we use classic cooking methods.  We use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Our restaurants do not have microwaves or freezers. Ingredients we use include chicken, steak and chorizo that is grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy shredded beef), Sofritas (organic braised tofu) and vegetarian pinto and black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice, freshly chopped cilantro, and a pinch of salt, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, to our entrees depending on each customer’s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also make a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with fresh lime juice and salt. In addition to sodas, fruit and tea drinks and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch from whole ingredients, some of which is prepared in our restaurants and some is prepared with the same fresh ingredients in larger batches in commissaries.

Better Food.Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our mission to ensure that better food is accessible to everyone. We believe that purchasing fresh ingredients and preparing them from scratch in our restaurants is not enough, so we spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on the sources of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve the food we serve. We're all about simple, fresh food without artificial flavors or fillers—just genuine raw ingredients and their individual, delectable flavors.

In all of our Chipotle restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that were raised in accordance with criteria we’ve established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare, and without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones. We brand these meats as “Responsibly Raised®.”  One of our primary goals is for all of our restaurants to serve meats raised to meet our standards, but we have and will continue to face challenges in doing so.  For example, some of our restaurants did not serve carnitas for a portion of 2015, and some of our restaurants periodically serve conventionally raised chicken or beef from time to time due to supply constraints for our Responsibly Raised meats. More of our restaurants may periodically serve conventionally raised meats or stop serving one or more menu items in the future due to additional supply constraints. When we become aware that one or more of our restaurants will serve conventionally raised meat, we clearly and specifically disclose this temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that customers can avoid those meats if they choose to do so.

We also seek to use more responsibly grown produce, by which we mean produce grown by suppliers whose practices conform to our priorities with respect to environmental considerations and employee welfare. A portion of our beans is organically grown and a portion is grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. A portion of some of the other produce items we serve is organically grown as well. Our commitment to better ingredients also extends to the dairy products we serve. We started 2017 with all the sour cream and cheese we buy for our U.S. Chipotle restaurants made with milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone) and sourced from pasture-based dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing outdoor access for their cows.

In addition, none ofthe ingredients in our food (not including beverages) in U.S. Chipotle restaurantscontain genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. While the meat and poultry we serve is not genetically modified, the animals are likely fed a diet of grains containing GMOs.Due to the prevalence of GMOs in a number of important feed crops, the vast majority of the grains used as animal feed in the U.S. are genetically modified. Additionally, some of the beverages we serve are sweetened with corn-based sweeteners, which are typically made with genetically modified corn.

Close Relationships with Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 24 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and the suppliers’ understanding of our mission.  We work closely with our suppliers and seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols, and our distribution centers purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers. We’ve also tried to increase,









where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade tariffs and other issues, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (including beef, pork, chicken, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. For a discussion of risks related to our supply chain, see “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry –Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations”and “Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy  –Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks”in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Quality Assurance and Food Safety.



Our business was severely impacted beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015 by food safety incidents that were associated with a number of our restaurants.  More discussion of these incidents can be found in

“

Risks Related to Our Plans to Return to Sales and Profitability Growth and Restore Our Economic Model – We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015. . .

” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

In the wake of these incidents, strengthening trust among our customers and in our brand has become essential to restoring our business results and achieving our mission. This begins with our commitment to serving

safe, high quality food. Quality and food safety measures are integrated throughout our supply chain, from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line and into our customers’ hands. We maintain a limited list of approved suppliers, many of which are among the top suppliers in the industry. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs, and works closely with our suppliers to ensure our high standards are met throughout the supply chain. Our training, operations, and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness, employee health protocols, and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed to ensure that we not only continue to comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations, but establish Chipotle as an industry leader in food safety.

While our food safety programs have always been carefully designed and have been in conformance with applicable industry standards, over the last year our Executive Director of Food Safety, a respected expert in the industry, has led a comprehensive assessment and enhancement of our food safety programs and practices. Components of our enhanced food safety programs include:

﻿

﻿supplier interventions (steps to avoid food safety risks before ingredients reach Chipotle);advanced technology (tools that eliminate pathogens while maintaining food quality);farmer support and training;enhanced restaurant procedures (protocols for handling ingredients and sanitizing surfaces in our restaurants);food safety certification;internal and third party restaurant inspections; andingredient traceability.

﻿

These and other enhancements underscore our commitment to becoming a leader in food safety while we continue to serve high quality food that our customers love. To be sure that our food safety programs continue to evolve in ways that will help maintain leadership in this important area, we have established a Food Safety Advisory Council that is comprised of some of the nation’s foremost food safety authorities. The Food Safety Advisory Council is charged with evaluating our programs, both in practice and implementation, and advising us on ways to elevate our already high standards for food safety.

Delivering an Excellent Guest Experience

There is nothing more important than treating our guests to an excellent experience every time they visit one of our restaurants. We believe that restaurants that deliver a consistently great experience attract customers more frequently and engender greater customer loyalty. Creating an excellent guest experience starts with hiring great people, training them on our high standards, and creating great teams in our restaurants. We have identified 13 characteristics of top performing employees, and use these characteristics as a guide to help us identify the very best people for our restaurants. Then, we invest in properly training each employee so that they can seamlessly deliver an excellent experience that our guests will enjoy.  Our restaurant training focuses on the guest experience by ensuring we are serving safe and delicious food quickly, in a clean and hospitable environment.

Restaurant Team.Each restaurant typically has a general manager or Restaurateur (a position we’ve characterized as the most important in the company), an apprentice manager (in a majority of our restaurants), and we aim to have two or three hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 23 full and part-time crew members, though our busier restaurants tend to have slightly more employees. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We also cross-train our people so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on









customer service, we encourage our general managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or area managers, team directors, executive team directors, executive regional directors and restaurant support officers.

Innovation. We are prioritizing the development of technological and other innovations, such as digital/mobile ordering platforms, and delivery and catering choices, that allow our guests to engage with Chipotle in whatever fashion is most convenient for them. By allowing our customers to order and receive their food in a variety of ways, we believe we can attract more customers and help encourage customers to choose us more frequently. In order to successfully deliver a great experience for customers, we are emphasizing the optimization of our second make-lines, which allow us to fulfill catering or online orders without disrupting throughput on our main service line.  We are also integrating technology into our applications that provides customers with more precise and earlier pick-up times, which help our restaurants fill digital orders more quickly and accurately, improving the experience for customers who use these platforms. Technological innovations also improve the experience of other guests by helping to improve throughput for those who choose to dine in our restaurants.  Additionally, we have enhanced our data capabilities to allow us to better identify individual customers and their unique frequency patterns, and to target our marketing and promotional efforts at the individual level. We believe the advancements we have made in this area will help us as we continue to target lapsed customers, and seek to build frequency among newer customers.

Marketing

A great dining experience in our restaurants has always been our most powerful marketing. But there is still a need to introduce our brand to new customers and engage with existing ones in other ways, by helping them understand what makes Chipotle different. Our advertising and promotional programs and in-store communications all help to communicate what differentiates Chipotle from typical fast food. Whether it’s engaging with Chipotle via our various social media channels, participating in our local events, or simply eating a burrito at one of our restaurants, each customer interaction affords us an important opportunity to build our brand. On the heels of the safety-related incidents, we redoubled our efforts to attract customers to our restaurants and to provide a restaurant experience that helps keep them as or convert them into loyal, repeat customers.  Generating new customers and enhancing customer frequency will be a central objective of our marketing efforts in 2017.

Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit, and radio ads, but we also incorporate digital advertising into the mix, and conduct strategic promotions that demonstrate our commitment to our Food With Integrity philosophy while connecting us to like-minded individuals or organizations. Beyond these traditional channels, we continue to pioneer new avenues of branded content aimed at making consumers more curious about some of the issues that are important to us, and explaining why and how we are working to drive positive change in the nation’s food supply. We also have a dedicated team of field marketing staff that helps connect our restaurants to local communities through fundraisers, sponsorships and participation in local events.

Alongside our excellent restaurant teams, these efforts have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity as our customers learn more about us and share with others. This approach allows us to build awareness and loyalty with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the right thing in every facet of our business.

Competition

The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, brand reputation, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out, catering, and delivery services. In recent years, competition has increased significantly from restaurant formats like ours that serve higher quality food, quickly and at a reasonable price.  We believe that this competition has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of customer visits, but continue to believe that Chipotle can differentiate itself with our mission to ensure that better food is accessible to everyone.

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafés of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who seek higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias, and other dining outlets. For more information, see “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Competition could adversely affect us” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees.











Restaurant SiteSelection

We believe restaurant site selection is critical to our success and growth strategy and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential restaurant location. Our site selection process is led by our internal team of real estate managers and also includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, as well as support from an internal real estate strategy and research group. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information on competitors and other restaurants. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment for each potential restaurant site. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, food courts, outlet centers, airports, military bases and train stations.

Other Restaurant Concepts

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based – finding better ingredients, preparing them using classic techniques in front of the customer, and serving them in an interactive format with great teams dedicated to providing an excellent dining experience – can be adapted to cuisines other than the food served at Chipotle. Over the previous 5 years, we’ve explored this idea by creating new and innovative concepts such as Tasty Made, a burger concept we opened with a single restaurant in October,2016, as well as investing in consolidated entities with partners that are developing additional concepts, such as Pizzeria Locale, a fast-casual pizza restaurant that now has seven restaurants in four states. Our first new restaurant concept was ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen, which we opened in 2011 and grew to a total of 15 restaurants.ShopHouse was not able to achieve a level of sales and profitability that made it attractive to us for future investment, and we announced in the fourth quarter of 2016 that we are exploring strategic alternatives for the concept.In 2017, our focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.

InformationSystems

We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each restaurant, and within our centralized corporate infrastructure. The services available within our systems and applications include restaurant operations, supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. The restaurant structure is based primarily on a point-of-sale system that operates locally at the restaurant and is integrated with other functions necessary to restaurant operations. It records sales transactions, receives out of store orders, and authorizes, batches, and transmits credit card transactions. The system also allows employees to enter time clock information and to produce a variety of



management reports. Select information that is captured from this system at each restaurant is collected in the c

entral corporate infrastructure, which enables management to continually monitor operating results.  Our online ordering system allows guests to place orders online or through our mobile app. Orders taken remotely are routed to the point-of-sales system based on the time of customer order pickup. We also continue to modernize and make investments in our information technology networks and infrastructure, specifically in our physical and technological security measures to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches, and to provide improved control, security and scalability. Enhancing the security of our financial data, customer information and other personal information remains a priority for us.

We will continue to invest in our applications and systems to support our continued expansion. See “General Business Risks—We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of risks associated with our information systems.

Employees

As of December 31, 2016, we had about 64,570 employees, including about 4,700 salaried employees and about 59,870 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors influencing our business are described under the heading “Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

OurIntellectualProperty and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands,” “Responsibly Raised,” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various









other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in various countries as well. We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress and have registered elements of our restaurant design for trade dress protection in the U.S. as well.

From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials.  Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website.  You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.













﻿

