ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “We”) operate restaurants
throughout the United States, as well as two restaurants in Toronto, Canada and one in London, England. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 1,084 restaurants. Our restaurants serve a focused menu of tacos, burritos, salads and burrito bowls (a
burrito without the tortilla), made using fresh ingredients. We focus on trying to find the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on recruiting and retaining top performing people to ensure that the restaurant experience we
provide is exceptional; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years,
and expect to open between 135 and 145 additional restaurants in 2011.

Chipotle began with a simple philosophy: demonstrate
that food served fast doesn’t have to be a traditional “fast-food” experience. Over the years, that vision has evolved. Today, our vision is to change the way people think about and eat fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic
approach when creating our restaurant experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people to take care of each
customer—features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach is also guided by our belief in an idea we call “Food With Integrity”. Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we
can—ingredients that are grown or raised with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow or raise the food.

We manage our operations and restaurants based on five regions that all report into a single segment. Financial information about our
operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, and our total assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. Our business was founded in Colorado in 1993, and McDonald’s Corporation made a series of equity investments in us beginning in
February 1998, becoming our majority shareholder in 2000. We completed our initial public offering in January 2006. McDonald’s sold a portion of its interest in us in the initial public offering, sold an additional portion of its interest
in us in a secondary offering in May 2006, and disposed of its remaining interest in us in an exchange offer to its shareholders that was completed in October 2006.

Our Menu and Food Preparation

Food With Integrity.Serving high
quality food is what motivates us and is critical to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food. As part of our Food With Integrity philosophy, we believe that using fresh ingredients is not enough, so we spend time on farms
and in the field to understand where our ingredients come from and how the animals are raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on where we obtain each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to
improve our food. For example, as of December 31, 2010, all of our restaurants served carnitas made with naturally raised pork, as well as barbacoa made with naturally raised beef. Also as of December 31, 2010, about 80% of our restaurants served
naturally raised steak and about 86% of our restaurants served naturally raised chicken. As a result of ongoing supply challenges, we had to suspend serving naturally raised chicken in certain markets beginning in the second quarter of 2010. We
expect additional supplies of naturally raised chicken to become available during 2011. We define naturally raised as coming from animals that are fed a pure vegetarian diet, never given antibiotics or hormones, and raised humanely. Our definition
is more stringent than the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s standard for naturally raised marketing claims. In addition, we work with leading animal welfare authorities to try to support more humane farming practices.







We’re also investigating the use of more sustainably grown produce, meaning produce
grown by suppliers who we believe respect the environment and their employees, while still charging reasonable prices for our food. Today, about 40% of all of the beans we buy are organically grown—that is, they meet U.S. Food and Drug
Administration standards for “organic”. In 2011, a portion of our beans – about 5% based on our current expectations – will be grown using conservation tillage methods, which improves soil conditions, reduces erosion, and helps
preserve the environment in which they are grown. As of the end of 2010, about 78% of the cilantro we serve was organic. During 2010 we exceeded our local produce goal by purchasing about 9.4 million pounds of produce that travelled 350 miles
or less from the farm to our restaurants. We expect to increase the amount of local produce purchased during 2011.

Our Food
With Integrity commitment extends to the dairy products we serve as well. All of the sour cream and cheese we buy is made from milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH, or recombinant bovine growth hormone which stimulates milk production.
By the end of 2010, about 76% of the cheese used in our restaurants was made using milk from cows that are given access to pasture, as opposed to being kept in confinement, and we expect to increase that percentage during 2011.

A Few Things, Thousands of Ways.We serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can
choose from four different meats, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough variety to extend our menu to provide countless choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we’ll
consider additions that we think make sense. And if you can’t find something on the menu that’s quite what you’re after, let us know. If we can make it from the ingredients we have, we’ll do it.

In preparing our food, we use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in
refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak that is marinated and grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa
(spicy shredded beef) and pinto and vegetarian black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer’s
request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with fresh lime and kosher salt. In addition to sodas, fruit drinks
and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with the majority prepared in our restaurants while some is prepared with the same fresh ingredients in commissaries.







Food Served Fast … So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly.

Quality Assurance and Food Safety.Chipotle is
committed to serving safe, high quality food to our customers. Quality and food safety is integrated throughout our supply chain and everything we do; from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line. We have established
close relationships with some of the top suppliers in the industry, and we actively maintain a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and
food safety programs for our supply chains. Our training and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed
to ensure that we comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Culture of High Performers.







Importance of Methods and Culture.Although we have many restaurants, we believe that
our departure from the automated cooking techniques and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking methods: they marinate and grill meats, hand-chop produce and
herbs, make fresh salsa and guacamole, and steam rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a typical fast-food place. Despite our more labor-intensive method
of food preparation, our focused menu creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants.

The Front Line is Key.Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our focus on service. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged
to have genuine interactions with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on attracting and retaining people who can deliver that experience for each customer “one entree at
a time”. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps
build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among restaurant managers, crew members and customers alike.

The Basics.Each restaurant typically has a restaurant manager (a position we’ve characterized as the most important in the company), an apprentice manager (in about three-quarters of our restaurants), one or two hourly service managers, one or two hourly
kitchen managers and an average of 22 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our busier restaurants.
We cross-train our people, so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people greater variety and the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our
emphasis on customer service, we encourage our restaurant managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. And although they may increase our labor costs, we believe that the benefits we provide to our employees,
which include language training and a company car program for qualified restaurant managers, help us to attract and keep top performing restaurant managers and crew members. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we
also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or area managers, team or operations directors and regional directors.

Provisions and Supplies

Close Relationships With Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. We purchase from various suppliers,
carefully selected based on quality and their understanding of our mission, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing
protocols. We’ve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, exchange rates,
foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices.

We generally do not purchase raw
materials directly from farmers or other suppliers, but have selected and approved all of the suppliers from whom ingredients are purchased for our restaurants. Distribution centers purchase ingredients and other supplies from suppliers we select
based on our quality specifications, and purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers.

Distribution Arrangements.We deliver ingredients and other supplies to our restaurants from 22 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers. As we continue to expand
geographically, we expect to add additional regional distribution centers.







Marketing

Our marketing has historically been based on the belief that the best and most recognizable brands aren’t built through advertising or promotional campaigns alone, but rather through all of the ways
people experience the brand. So we pay close attention to all of these variables, looking to keep our communications closely aligned with the ways our customers experience Chipotle. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications,
and other design elements (such as menus and signs) all say something about who we are, and we believe it’s important that we present our brand consistently in our communications and the experience our customers enjoy. That has always been a
hallmark of our marketing, and we are constantly looking to do these things better.

When we open a new restaurant, we plan a
range of activities to introduce Chipotle to the local community and to create interest in the restaurant from the start. Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit and radio ads but we are also incorporating online advertising
into the mix, and adding strategic promotions that demonstrate how Chipotle is different than other restaurant concepts, or that connect us to like-minded individuals or organizations. In addition, we continue to generate considerable media
coverage, with scores of publications writing favorably about our food, restaurant concept and business, and our food, restaurants and company have been featured in a number of television programs.

Collectively, these efforts have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity, with our customers learning about us and telling
others, allowing us to build awareness with relatively low advertising expenditures.

We also recognize the need for our
marketing to evolve, much as we have evolved our food culture and our unique people culture. To this end, we have developed and introduced new logos, advertising and other branding elements, and are increasingly aligning our marketing message around
our emphasis on making great tasting food using the best quality ingredients from more sustainable sources and prepared using classic cooking techniques. We continue to review our entire marketing strategy and messaging approach to make it more
effective, and are developing new strategies, including a loyalty program that will reward our customers for their knowledge of Chipotle, and a greater emphasis on web and mobile channels that we intend to implement in 2011, as well as our
involvement with the upcoming NBC reality television program “America’s Next Great Restaurant”. Our goals are to effectively encourage customers to discover how Chipotle is different than other restaurant concepts and ensure that our
marketing message resonates more with our customers.

Competition

The fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry is highly competitive and fragmented. In addition, fast-casual restaurants compete
against other segments of the restaurant industry, including quick-service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region, market and even restaurant. All of these restaurants compete based on
a number of factors, including taste, quality, speed of service, price and value, name recognition, restaurant location, customer service and the ambience and condition of each restaurant.

We compete with national and regional fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining restaurants. Our competition also includes a variety of
locally owned restaurants and the deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, have been in business longer, and have greater name recognition than
we have, and are better established than we are in the markets where our restaurants are located or are planned to be located.

We believe we’re well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current consumer trends,
including the increasing impact of Hispanic culture on food, the growth of the Mexican food segment and increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared. Some of our competitors have formats that might
resemble ours. We believe, however, that Chipotle has become one of the most recognized fast-casual restaurants and that we are known for our focus on preparing







food using a variety of fresh ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen to create delicious food, as well as our commitment to “Food With Integrity”, which we think represents a
significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate.

Restaurant Site Selection

We believe that site selection is critical to our success and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential
location. Our site selection process includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, taking direction from our internal team of real estate managers. Locations proposed by real estate managers are reviewed on
site by a team of operations and development management as part of a formal site ride, as well as in a written real estate package. We study the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information
on competitors. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations,
such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, regional malls, downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, and even an airport location.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from
quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months)
than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the
academic year.

Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat
With Your Hands,” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered
trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks
in various countries as well.

We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to
time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not
be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Information Systems

Chipotle uses an integrated information system to manage the flow of information within each restaurant and between the restaurants and
the corporate office. This system includes a point-of-sales local area network that helps facilitate the operations of the restaurant by recording sales transactions and printing orders in the appropriate locations within the restaurant.
Additionally, the point-of-sales system is used to authorize, batch and transmit credit card transactions, to record employee time clock information, and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this
system is transmitted to the corporate office on a daily basis, which enables management to continually monitor operating results. We believe that our current point-of-sales systems will be an adequate platform to support our continued expansion.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had about 26,500 employees, including about 2,370 salaried employees and about 24,130 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective
bargaining agreement.

Test Concept Development

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based – finding the very best sustainably raised ingredients, prepared and cooked using classical methods in front of the
customer, and served in an interactive format by special people dedicated to providing a great dining experience – can be adapted to cuisines other than the food we serve at Chipotle. In order to see how our model works when we use different
ingredients and a different style of food, we plan to open one Asian-inspired restaurant during 2011. Our focus, however, will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com. You may
access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge
on the investor page of our website at ir.chipotle.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual
references only.



