ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “We”) operates 956 restaurants in 35 states
throughout the United States, the District of Columbia, and Ontario, Canada as of December 31, 2009. Our restaurants serve a focused menu of tacos, burritos, salads and burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla), made using fresh
ingredients. We are focused on trying to find the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on recruiting and retaining top performing people to ensure that the restaurant experience we provide is exceptional; on building
restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with increasing awareness and respect for the environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 120 and 130
additional restaurants in 2010.

Chipotle began with a simple philosophy: demonstrate that food served fast doesn’t have
to be a traditional “fast-food” experience. Over the years, that vision has evolved. Today, our vision is to change the way the world thinks about and eats fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic approach when creating our restaurant
experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people to take care of each customer—features that are more
frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach is also guided by our belief in an idea we call “Food With Integrity”. Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we can—ingredients that are grown or raised
with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow or raise the food.

We manage our operations and restaurants
based on five regions that all report into a single segment. Financial information about our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and our total assets as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, is included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. Our business was founded in Colorado in 1993, and McDonald’s
Corporation made a series of equity investments in us beginning in February 1998, becoming our majority shareholder in 2000. We completed our initial public offering in January 2006. McDonald’s sold a portion of its interest in us in the
initial public offering, sold an additional portion of its interest in us in a secondary offering in May 2006, and disposed of its remaining interest in us in an exchange offer to its shareholders that was completed in October 2006.

Our Menu and Food Preparation

Food With Integrity.More than anything, serving high quality food is what motivates us and is the cornerstone of our vision to change the way the world thinks about and eats fast food. As part of our Food With Integrity philosophy,
we believe that using fresh ingredients is not enough, so we spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our ingredients come from and how the animals are raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on where we obtain
each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve our food. All of our pork and all of our chicken, for example, is naturally raised. We define naturally raised as coming from animals that are fed a pure
vegetarian diet, never given antibiotics or hormones, and raised in open pastures or deeply bedded pens—which is more stringent than the USDA’s standard for naturally raised marketing claims. We also serve naturally raised beef in about
60% of our restaurants. In addition, we work with leading animal ethicists to try to support more humane farming practices. We’re also investigating the use of more sustainably grown produce, meaning produce grown by suppliers who we believe
respect the environment and their employees, while still charging reasonable prices for our food. Today, about 40% of all of the beans we buy are organically grown—that is, they meet U.S. Food and Drug







Administration standards for “organic”. All of the sour cream and cheese we buy is made from milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH, or recombinant bovine growth hormone, to
stimulate milk production. By the end of 2009, about 30% of the milk used in our cheese came from cows raised in pastures and we expect to increase that percentage during 2010. During 2009 we met our goal of purchasing at least 35% of at least one
produce item while in season in each of our markets from small to midsize local farmers, and we expect to increase that percentage during 2010 as well.

A Few Things, Thousands of Ways.We serve only a
few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from four different meats, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough variety to extend our
menu to provide countless choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we’ll consider additions that we think make sense. And if you can’t find something on the menu that’s quite what you’re after, let us know. If we can make it
from the ingredients we have, we’ll do it.

In preparing our food, we use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting
knives, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak that is marinated and grilled in our
restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy shredded beef) and pinto and vegetarian black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream,
lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer’s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with
fresh lime and kosher salt. In addition to sodas and fruit drinks, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with the majority prepared in our restaurants while some is prepared with
the same fresh ingredients in commissaries. With the exception of the sweet corn for one of our salsas, our ingredients are never frozen, and we never use microwaves in the preparation of our food.

Food Served Fast … So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly.Our employees spend hours preparing our food on-site, but each
customer order can be ready in seconds. Customers select exactly what they want and how they want it by speaking directly to the employees that have prepared the food. While we think that our customers return because of the great-tasting food, we
also think that they like getting food served fast without having a “fast-food” experience, even when they’re not in a hurry. And while our restaurants often have lines, we try to serve customers as quickly as possible; we’ve
even been able to serve more than 300 customers an hour at some locations. The natural flow of our restaurant layout, including the floor plan and the design of our serving







line, are designed to make the food ordering process intuitive and, we believe, more efficient. And we’re focused on further improving the speed of service in all of our restaurants, so that
we can accommodate more customers and larger orders without disrupting restaurant traffic. For instance, our restaurants accept orders over the internet, by fax, online or through an iPhone ordering application in order to provide a more convenient
experience by allowing customers to avoid standing in line. We have installed change machines at the cashier station in virtually all of our restaurants, and have implemented a hand-held point-of-sale terminal in a small number of our restaurants
which allows customers to pay with a credit card while waiting in line. We continue to review other equipment and kitchen design modifications to improve the speed of service. By emphasizing speed of service without compromising the genuine
interactions between our customers and our crews, and by continually making improvements to our restaurants, we believe that we can provide the Chipotle experience to more and more customers.

Quality Assurance and Food Safety.Chipotle is committed to serving safe, high quality food to our customers. Quality and food safety
is integrated throughout our supply chain and everything we do; from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line. We have established close relationships with some of the top suppliers in the industry, and we actively
maintain a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs. Our training department develops and implements operating
standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed to ensure that we comply with applicable state and local food safety regulations.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Culture of High Performers.

Importance of Methods and Culture.Although we have many restaurants, we believe that our departure from the automated cooking techniques, frozen meats and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking
methods: they marinate and grill meats, hand-chop produce and herbs, make fresh salsa and guacamole, and steam rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a
typical fast-food place. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, our focused menu creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants.

The Front Line is Key.Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our
focus on service. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged to have genuine







interactions with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on attracting and retaining people who can deliver that experience
for each customer “one entree at a time”. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a
positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among restaurant managers, crew members and customers alike.

The Basics.Each restaurant typically has a restaurant manager (a position we’ve characterized as the most important in the company), an apprentice manager, one or two hourly service managers,
one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 21 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our
busier restaurants. We cross-train our people, so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people greater variety and the opportunity to develop a wider array of skills.
Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our restaurant managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. And although they may increase our labor costs, we believe that the benefits we
provide to our employees, which include language training and a company car program for qualified restaurant managers, help us to attract and keep top performing restaurant managers and crew members. In addition to the employees serving our
customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes assistant team leaders, team leaders or area managers, operations directors and regional directors.

Provisions and Supplies

Close Relationships With Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. We purchase from various suppliers,
carefully selected based on quality and their understanding of our mission, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing
protocols. We’ve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, exchange rates,
foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices.

We generally do not purchase raw
materials directly from farmers or other suppliers, but have selected and approved all of the suppliers from whom ingredients are purchased for our restaurants. Distribution centers purchase ingredients and other supplies from suppliers we select
based on our quality specifications, and purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers.

Distribution Arrangements.We deliver ingredients and other supplies to our restaurants from 22 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers. As we continue to expand geographically, we expect to add additional
regional distribution centers.

Marketing

Our marketing has historically been based on the belief that the best and most recognizable brands aren’t built through advertising or promotional campaigns alone, but rather through all of the ways
people experience the brand. So we pay close attention to all of these variables, looking to keep our communications closely aligned with the ways our customers experience Chipotle. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications,
and other design elements (such as menus and signs) all say something about who we are, and we believe it’s important that we present our brand consistently in our communications and the experience our customers enjoy. That has always been a
hallmark of our marketing, and we are constantly looking to do these things better.







When we open a new restaurant, we plan a range of activities to introduce Chipotle to the
local community and to create interest in the restaurant from the start. Our advertising has generally included print, outdoor, transit and radio ads. In addition, we continue to generate considerable media coverage, with scores of publications
writing favorably about our food, restaurant concept and business, and our food, restaurants and company have been featured in a number of television programs.

Collectively, these efforts have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity, with our customers learning about us and telling others, allowing us to build awareness with relatively low
advertising expenditures.

We also recognize the need for our marketing to evolve, much as we have evolved our food culture
and our unique people culture. To help us improve our marketing direction and message, to deepen our relationships with customers and continue to attract new customers, we hired our first ever Chief Marketing Officer in January 2009. We also
developed and introduced new logos, advertising and other branding elements in 2009. We continue to review our entire marketing strategy and messaging approach to make it more effective, and have developed new advertising and marketing strategies
that we intend to implement in 2010. Our goals are to effectively communicate how Chipotle is different than other restaurant concepts and ensure that our marketing message resonates more with our customers.

Competition

The
fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry is highly competitive and fragmented. In addition, fast-casual restaurants compete against other segments of the restaurant industry, including quick-service restaurants and casual dining restaurants.
The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region, market and even restaurant. All of these restaurants compete based on a number of factors, including taste, quality, speed of service, value, name recognition, restaurant location,
customer service and the ambience and condition of each restaurant.

We compete with national and regional fast-casual,
quick-service and casual dining restaurants. Our competition also includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and the deli sections and in-restaurant cafés of several major grocery store chains. Many of our competitors have greater
financial and other resources, have been in business longer, and have greater name recognition than we have, and are better established than we are in the markets where our restaurants are located or are planned to be located.

We believe we’re well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current consumer trends,
including the increasing impact of Hispanic culture on food, the growth of the Mexican food segment and increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared. Some of our competitors have formats similar to
ours. We believe, however, that Chipotle has become one of the most recognized fast-casual restaurants and that we are known for our focus on preparing food using a variety of fresh ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen to create delicious food,
as well as our commitment to “Food With Integrity”, which we think represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate.

Seasonality

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from
quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months)
than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the
academic year.







Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not
Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands,” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of other marks in the
U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle
Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in various countries as well.

We also believe that the
design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and
defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Information Systems

Chipotle uses an integrated information system to manage the flow of information within each restaurant and between the restaurants and the corporate office. This system includes a point-of-sales local area network that helps facilitate the
operations of the restaurant by recording sales transactions and printing orders in the appropriate locations within the restaurant. Additionally, the point-of-sales system is used to authorize, batch and transmit credit card transactions, to record
employee time clock information, and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this system is transmitted to the corporate office on a daily basis, which enables management to continually monitor operating
results. We believe that our current point-of-sales systems will be an adequate platform to support our continued expansion.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had about 22,250 employees, including about 2,090 salaried employees and about 20,160
hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com. The information on or available through our website is not, and should not be
considered, a part of this report. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed
with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.



