ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Chipotle”, the “Company”, or “We”) operate restaurants
throughout the United States, as well as two restaurants in Toronto, Canada and two in London, England. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 1,230 restaurants, which includes one ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen. Chipotle restaurants serve a
focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads, made using fresh ingredients. We focus on trying to find the highest quality ingredients we can to make great tasting food; on recruiting and retaining top
performing people to ensure that the restaurant experience we provide is exceptional; on building restaurants that are operationally efficient and aesthetically pleasing; and on doing all of this with increasing awareness and respect for the
environment. We have grown substantially over the past five years, and expect to open between 155 and 165 additional restaurants in 2012.

Our vision is to change the way people think about and eat fast food. We do this by avoiding a formulaic approach when creating our restaurant experience, looking to fine-dining restaurants for
inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design and have friendly people to take care of each customer—features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. Our approach
is also guided by our belief in an idea we call “Food With Integrity”. Our objective is to find the highest quality ingredients we can—ingredients that are grown or raised with respect for the environment, animals and people who grow
or raise the food.

We manage our operations and restaurants based on six regions that aggregate into one reportable segment.
Financial information about our operations, including our revenues and net income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and our total assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, is included in our consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Substantially all of our revenues are generated and assets are located in the U.S.

Our Menu and Food Preparation

Food With Integrity.Serving high
quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to our vision to change the way people think about and eat fast food. As part of our Food With Integrity philosophy, we believe that using fresh ingredients is not enough, so we spend
time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on where we obtain each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve
our food. As of December 31, 2011, we were serving exclusively naturally raised meats in all of our restaurants in the U.S. Continuing to serve naturally raised meats in all of our restaurants is one of our goals, but as discussed below, we
have and will continue to face challenges in doing so. Some of our restaurants served conventionally raised chicken or steak for much of 2011, a few markets reverted to conventionally raised beef in early 2012, and more of our restaurants may
periodically serve conventionally raised meats in the future due to supply constraints. We define naturally raised as coming from animals that are never given antibiotics or added hormones and that are raised responsibly—that is, in
accordance with our animal welfare standards.

We’re also investigating the use of more sustainably grown produce, meaning
produce grown by suppliers who we believe respect the environment and their employees. A portion of some of the produce items we serve is organically grown, or sourced locally while in season (by which we mean grown within 350 miles of the
restaurant). A portion of our beans is organically grown and a portion is sustainably grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. Our Food
With Integrity commitment extends to the dairy products we serve as well. All of the sour cream and cheese we buy is made from milk that comes from cows that are not given rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone). Also, milk used to make much of our
cheese and a portion of our sour cream is sourced from dairies that provide an even higher standard of animal welfare by providing pasture access for their cows.







A Few Things, Thousands of Ways.Chipotle restaurants serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. But
because customers can choose from four different meats, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there’s enough variety to extend our menu to provide countless choices. We plan to keep a simple
menu, but we’ll consider additions that we think make sense. And if you can’t find something on the menu that’s quite what you’re after, let us know. If we can make it from the ingredients we have, we’ll do it.

In preparing our food, we use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in
refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include chicken and steak that is marinated and grilled in our restaurants, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa
(spicy shredded beef) and pinto and vegetarian black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice and freshly chopped cilantro, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, peppers and onions, depending on each customer’s
request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole, salsas and tortilla chips seasoned with fresh lime and kosher salt. In addition to sodas, fruit drinks
and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, with the majority prepared in our restaurants while some is prepared with the same fresh ingredients in commissaries.

Food Served Fast … So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly.







Quality Assurance and Food Safety.We are committed to serving safe, high quality
food to our customers. Quality and food safety is integrated throughout our supply chain and everything we do; from the farms that supply our food all the way through to our front line. We have established close relationships with some of the top
suppliers in the industry, and we actively maintain a limited list of approved suppliers from whom our distributors must purchase. Our quality assurance department establishes and monitors our quality and food safety programs for our supply chain.
Our training and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also designed to assure that we comply with applicable
federal, state and local food safety regulations.

Restaurant Management and Operations

Culture of Top Performers.

Importance of Methods and Culture.Although we have many
restaurants, we believe that our departure from the automated cooking techniques and microwaves used by many traditional fast-food and fast-casual restaurants helps to set us apart. Our crews use classic cooking methods: they marinate and grill
meats, hand-cut produce and herbs, make fresh salsa and guacamole, and cook rice in small batches throughout the day. They work in kitchens that more closely resemble those of high-end restaurants than they do a typical fast-food place. Despite our
more labor-intensive method of food preparation, our focused menu creates efficiencies which allow us to serve high quality food made from ingredients typically found in fine dining restaurants.

The Front Line isKey. Our restaurant and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members up front with customers to reinforce our
focus on service, and our open kitchen design allows customers to see that we prepare our food fresh, each and every day. All of our restaurant employees are encouraged to interact with customers no matter their job, whether preparing food or
serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on attracting and retaining people who can deliver that experience for each customer “one burrito at a time”. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to
respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among restaurant managers, crew members and
customers alike.

The Basics.Each restaurant typically has a restaurant manager (a position we’ve characterized as
the most important in the company), an apprentice manager (in about three-quarters of our restaurants), one or two hourly service managers, one or two hourly kitchen managers and an average of 20 full and part-time crew members. We generally have
two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. We tend to have more employees in our busier restaurants. We cross-train our people so that each can work a variety of stations, allowing us to work
efficiently during our busiest times, while giving our people the







opportunity to develop a wider array of skills. Consistent with our emphasis on customer service, we encourage our restaurant managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers
throughout the day. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes apprentice team leaders, team leaders or area managers, team directors and regional directors.

Supply Chain

Close
Relationships with Suppliers.Maintaining the high levels of quality we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable
suppliers. Our distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and their understanding of our mission, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with suppliers. We work closely with
our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols. We’ve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages, and
we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (beef, pork, chicken, beans, rice, sour cream, and tortillas) are purchased
from a small number of suppliers.

We generally do not purchase raw materials directly from farmers or other suppliers, but
have selected and approved all of the suppliers from whom ingredients are purchased for our restaurants. Distribution centers purchase ingredients and other supplies from suppliers we select and approve based on our quality specifications, and
purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with the suppliers.

Distribution Arrangements.We deliver ingredients and other supplies to our restaurants from 22 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers. As we continue to expand geographically, we expect to add additional regional distribution centers.

Marketing

Our marketing
has always been based on the belief that the best and most recognizable brands aren’t built through advertising or promotional campaigns alone, but rather through all of the ways people experience the brand. So we pay close attention to all of
these details, looking to keep our communications closely aligned with the ways our customers experience Chipotle. Our advertising and promotional programs, in-store communications, and other design elements (such as menus and signs) all say
something about who we are, and we believe it’s important that we present our brand consistently in our communications and the experience our customers enjoy. That has always been a hallmark of our marketing, and we are constantly looking to do
these things better.

When we open restaurants in new markets, we plan a range of activities to introduce Chipotle to the local
community and to create interest in the restaurant from the start. In existing markets, our restaurants generally open strong, with volumes at or near market averages, even with little promotion surrounding the opening. Our advertising has generally
included print, outdoor, transit and radio ads, but we are also incorporating online advertising into the mix, and adding strategic promotions that demonstrate how Chipotle is different than other restaurant concepts, or that connect us to
like-minded individuals or organizations. In addition, we continue to generate considerable media coverage, with scores of publications writing favorably about our food, restaurant concept and business, and our food, restaurants and company have
been featured in a number of television programs.

We also recognize the need for our marketing to evolve, much as we have
evolved our food culture and our unique people culture. To this end, we have been testing more “owned media,” including new video and music programs, and a more visible event strategy that includes the launch of our first festival of food,
music and ideas, “Cultivate Chicago,” and participation in relevant events in markets around the country. Many of these newer programs allow us to tell our story with more nuance than is afforded by traditional advertising, and help forge
stronger emotional connections with our customers. We are also increasing our use of digital, mobile, and social







media to our overall marketing mix, giving customers greater opportunity to access Chipotle in ways that are convenient for them, and broadening our ability to engage with our customers
individually. Through our first ever customer loyalty program, the “Farm Team,” we are inviting our most loyal and passionate customers to join a program that educates them about many of the things that make Chipotle special, and rewarding
them for expanding and sharing their knowledge of our company.

Collectively, these efforts and our excellent restaurant teams
have helped us create considerable word-of-mouth publicity, with our customers learning about us and telling others, allowing us to build awareness with relatively low advertising expenditures, even in a competitive category, and to differentiate
Chipotle as a company that is committed to doing the right things in every facet of our business.

Competition

We compete with national and regional fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining restaurants. Our competition also includes a variety of
locally owned restaurants and the deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains. The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region, market and even restaurant. Competitors to our restaurants compete based on
a number of factors, including taste, quality, speed of service, price and value, name recognition, location, customer service and the ambience and condition of the competitor. Unlike us, a number of our competitors grow through franchising.

We believe we’re well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current
consumer trends, including increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat and how it is prepared and the increasing prevalence of the fast-casual segment. Some of our competitors have formats that might resemble ours. We
believe, however, that Chipotle has become one of the most recognized fast-casual restaurants and that we are known for our focus on preparing food using a variety of fresh ingredients in an open restaurant kitchen to create delicious food, as well
as our commitment to “Food With Integrity”, which we think represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate.

Restaurant Site Selection

We believe that site selection is critical to
our success and thus we devote substantial time and effort to evaluating each potential location. Our site selection process includes the use of external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, taking direction from our internal team
of real estate managers. Locations proposed by real estate managers are reviewed on site by a team of operations and development management as part of a formal site ride, as well as in a written real estate package. We study the surrounding trade
area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information on competitors. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return
on investment. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in-line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, regional malls, downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, and even an airport location.

ShopHouse Test Concept

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based—finding the very best sustainably raised ingredients, prepared and cooked using classical methods in front of the
customer, and served in an interactive format by special people dedicated to providing a great dining experience—can be adapted to cuisines other than the food we serve at Chipotle. In order to see how our model works when we use different
ingredients and a different style of food, we opened ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen during 2011. ShopHouse serves a menu that, like at Chipotle, is focused; main dishes consist of rice or noodle bowls or banh mi sandwiches, made with steak,
chicken, meatballs made with pork and chicken, or tofu.

Notwithstanding our opening of ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen and
our plans to open one additional ShopHouse restaurant during 2012, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand.







Seasonality

Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and profits are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the
holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For
example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year.

Our Intellectual Property
and Trademarks

“Chipotle,” “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Unburritable,” “Food With
Integrity,” “Fresh Is Not Enough, Anymore,” “The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands,” “ShopHouse” and a number of related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed
trademark applications for a number of other marks in the U.S. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and
have filed trademark applications for “Chipotle Mexican Grill,” “Chipotle” and a number of other marks in various countries as well.

We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress. From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks,
restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and
adversely affect our business.

Information Systems

Chipotle uses an integrated information system to manage the flow of information within each restaurant and between the restaurants and the corporate office. This system includes a point-of-sales local
area network that helps facilitate the operations of the restaurant by recording sales transactions and printing orders in the appropriate locations within the restaurant. Additionally, the point-of-sales system is used to authorize, batch and
transmit credit card transactions, to record employee time clock information, and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this system is transmitted to the corporate office on a daily basis, which enables
management to continually monitor operating results. We believe that our current point-of-sales systems will be an adequate platform to support our continued expansion. See “Risk Factors—We may incur costs resulting from security risks
we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information” below for a discussion of certain risks associated with our point-of-sales systems.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we had about 30,940 employees, including about 2,570 salaried employees and about 28,370 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Available Information

We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge on the investor page of our website at ir.chipotle.com as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.







The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be
considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



