
10-K
FORM 10-K

 
 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
                               ---------------- 
                                   FORM 10-K 
(MARK ONE) 
 
[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED] 
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 1995 
 
                                       OR 
 
[_]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] 
                      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM  TO 
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-10635 
                               ---------------- 
                                   NIKE, INC. 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
                 OREGON                                93-0584541 
    (State or other jurisdiction of        (IRS Employer Identification No.) 
             incorporation) 
                               ONE BOWERMAN DRIVE 
                          BEAVERTON, OREGON 97005-6453 
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (503) 671-6453 
                               ---------------- 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT: 
         (Title of each class)              (Name of each exchange on which 
          Class B Common Stock                        registered) 
                                                New York Stock Exchange 
                                                 Pacific Stock Exchange 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: 
                                      None 
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such 
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [  ] 
 
  As of July 21, 1995, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class A 
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $102,628,783 and the 
aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class B Common Stock held by 
nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $3,841,420,956. 
 
  As of July 21, 1995, the number of shares of the Registrant's Class A Common 
Stock outstanding was 25,893,522 and the number of shares of the Registrant's 
Class B Common Stock outstanding was 45,635,745. 
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
 
  Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 7, 1995 for the annual 
meeting of shareholders to be held on September 18, 1995 are incorporated by 
reference into Part III of this Report.
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and 
will not be contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive 
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ] 
 
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                                   NIKE, INC. 
 
                                 ANNUAL REPORT 
                                  ON FORM 10-K 
 
                                
 
 
                                     PART I 
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon. 
As used herein, the terms "NIKE" and the "Company" refer to NIKE, Inc. and 
its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates 
otherwise.
 
  The Company's principal business activity involves the design, development 
and worldwide marketing of high quality footwear, apparel, and accessory 
products. The Company sells its products to approximately 14,000 retail 
accounts in the United States and through a mix of independent distributors, 
licensees and subsidiaries in approximately 110 countries around the world.
Virtually all of the Company's products are manufactured by independent 
contractors. Most footwear products are produced outside the United States, 
while apparel products are produced both in the United States and abroad.
 
PRODUCTS 
 
  NIKE's athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific 
athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for 
casual or leisure purposes. The Company places considerable emphasis on high 
quality construction and innovative design. Basketball, fitness, running, 
and children's shoes are currently the top-selling product categories 
and are expected to continue to lead in product sales in the near future. 
However, the Company also markets shoes designed for outdoor activities, 
tennis, golf, soccer, baseball, football, bicycling, volleyball, 
wrestling, cheerleading, aquatic activities and other athletic and 
recreational uses.
 
  The Company sells active sports apparel covering each of the above 
categories, as well as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and 
accessories are designed to complement the Company's athletic footwear 
products, feature the same trademarks and are sold through the same marketing 
and distribution channels. The Company often markets footwear, apparel and 
accessories in "collections" of similar design or for specific purposes. 
 
  The Company also sells a line of dress and casual footwear and 
accessories for men, women and children under the brand name Cole Haan(R) 
through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan Holdings Incorporated. 
The Company markets a line of headwear with licensed team logos under 
the brand name "Sports Specialties", through its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Sports Specialties Corporation.  The Company also sells 
small amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through 
its wholly-owned subsidiary, Tetra Plastics, Inc.
 
  In February 1995 the Company acquired Canstar Sports Inc., the world's 
largest hockey equipment manufacturer.  Canstar manufactures and distributes 
ice skates under the Bauer, Micron, Mega, Daoust and Lange brand names; 
in-line roller skates and protective gear under the Bauer brand name; Cooper 
and Flak hockey protective equipment; Cooper and Bauer hockey sticks; Bauer 
hockey jerseys and accessories; and Tuuk, ICM and John Wilson skate blades.  
Canstar also offers a full selection of products for street, roller and 
field hockey. 
 
SALES AND MARKETING
 
  The table below sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
United States and international (non-U.S.) revenues for the last three 
fiscal years.
 
 
 
  Financial information about United States and international operations 
appears in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements on page 26. 
 
  The Company experiences moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume 
during the year. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably 
from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic 
demand for particular types of footwear and apparel. 
 
  Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of 
various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect 
the demand for the Company's products and, consequently, the types of 
products the Company offers. The Company must therefore respond 
appropriately to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by 
adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, 
styles, and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences 
through agressive marketing. 
 
UNITED STATES MARKET 
 
  During fiscal 1995, sales to the Company's approximately 16,000 
retail accounts in the United States accounted for approximately 63 
percent of total revenues. The domestic retail account base includes a mix 
of department stores, footwear stores, sporting goods stores, skating, 
tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. During fiscal year 
1995, NIKE's three largest customers accounted for approximately 34 
percent of sales in the United States.  
 
  NIKE makes substantial use of its innovative "futures" ordering program, 
which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery 
with the guarantee that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within 
a set time period at a fixed price. In fiscal year 1995, 88 percent of the 
Company's domestic footwear shipments (excluding Cole Haan(R)) were made 
under the futures program, compared to 81 percent in fiscal 1994 and 83 
percent in fiscal 1993. 
 
  The Company utilizes 17 NIKE sales offices for the solicitation 
of sales in the United States. The Company also utilizes 10 independent 
sales representatives for the sale of specialty products, such as golf, 
cycling, water sports and outdoor wear. In addition, the Company 
operates 61 wholly-owned retail outlets, 33 of which carry primarily 
B-grade and close-out merchandise, 18 of which are Cole Haan(R) stores, 4 
of which are high-profile NIKETOWN stores designed to showcase the 
Company's products, and 4 of which are employee-only stores. 
 
  The Company's domestic distribution centers for footwear are located in 
Beaverton, Oregon, Wilsonville, Oregon, Memphis, Tennessee, Greenland, New 
Hampshire and Yarmouth, Maine. Apparel products are shipped from the Memphis 
distribution center and from Greenville, North Carolina. Sports Specialties 
headwear is shipped from Irvine, California, and Canstar Sports Inc. 
products are distributed from Swanton and St. Albans, Vermont. 
 
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS 
 
  The Company currently markets its products in approximately 110 countries 
outside of the United States through independent distributors, licensees, 
subsidiaries and branch offices. NIKE operates 32 distribution centers in 
Europe, Asia, Canada, Latin America, and Australia, and also distributes 
through independent distributors and licensees.  During fiscal 1995, sales 
of NIKE brand products to the Company's approximately 35,000 international 
(non-U.S.) retail accounts accounted for 37 percent of total revenues in 
fiscal 1995, compared to 36 percent in fiscal 1994 and 36 percent in fiscal 
1993. In fiscal 1993, the Company initiated a futures ordering program for 
European retailers similar to the United States futures program described 
above.  Outside of the United States, NIKE's three largest customers 
accounted for approximately 6 percent of non-U.S. sales. 
 
  International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in 
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, 
Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Peoples Republic of China, 
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, The 
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam.
 
 
SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS
 
  Foot Locker, a chain of retail stores specializing in athletic footwear and 
apparel, accounted for approximately 14 percent of global net sales of NIKE 
brand products during fiscal 1995. No other customer accounted for 10 percent 
or more of net sales during fiscal 1995. 
 
ORDERS 
 
  As of May 31, 1995, the Company's worldwide orders for athletic footwear 
and apparel totaled $2.5 billion, compared to $1.8 billion as of 
May 31, 1994.Such orders are scheduled for delivery from June through 
November of 1995.  Based upon historical data, the Company expects that 
approximately 95 percent of these orders will be filled in that time period, 
although the orders may be cancelable. 
 
PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  The Company believes that its research and development efforts are a 
key factor in its past and future success. Technical innovation in the 
design of footwear and apparel receive continued emphasis as NIKE strives 
to produce products that reduce or eliminate injury, aid athletic performance 
and maximize comfort. 
 
  In addition to its own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, 
exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, 
NIKE also utilizes research committees and advisory boards made up of 
athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists 
and other experts who consult with the Company and review designs, materials 
and concepts for product improvement.  Employee athletes wear-test and 
evaluate products during the design and development process. 
 
  In fiscal 1995, NIKE spent approximately $28.8 million on product research, 
development and evaluation, compared to $24.6 million in 1994 and $22.6 
million in 1993. 
 
MANUFACTURING 
 
  In fiscal 1995, approximately 47 percent of the Company's total apparel 
production for sale to the United States market was manufactured in the 
United States by independent contract manufacturers, most of which are 
located in the southern states. The remainder was manufactured by 
independent contractors in Asia and South America, most of which are 
located in Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Peru, Singapore, 
Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Thailand.  Substantially all of NIKE's apparel 
production for sale to the international market was manufactured outside 
the U.S. 
 
  Virtually all of the Company's footwear (exclusive of Cole Haan(R) 
brand footwear) is produced outside of the United States. In fiscal 1995, 
contract suppliers in Indonesia, the People's Republic of China, South 
Korea, Taiwan and Thailand accounted for approximately 31 percent, 31 
percent, 16 percent, 8 percent, and 14 percent, respectively, of total 
footwear production. The Company also has manufacturing agreements with 
independent factories in Argentina, Brazil, Hungary, Italy and Mexico. 
The largest single supplier outside of the United States accounted for 
approximately 9 percent of total 1995 footwear production. 
 
  The principal materials used in the Company's footwear products are 
natural and synthetic rubber, vinyl and plastic compounds, foam cushioning 
materials, nylon, leather, canvas, and a polyurethane film used to make 
AIR-SOLE(R) cushioning components. NIKE and its contractors and suppliers 
buy raw materials in bulk. Most raw materials are available in the 
countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE has thus far experienced 
little difficulty in satisfying its raw material requirements. Tetra 
Plastics, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, is the Company's sole 
supplier of the material from which the AIR-SOLE(R) cushioning components 
used in footwear are made. 
 
  The Company's international operations are subject to the usual risks 
of doing business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, 
export duties, quotas, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in 
certain parts of the world, political instability. See "Trade Legislation" 
below. NIKE has not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, 
but cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring. The 
Company believes that it has the ability to develop, over a period of 
time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained 
from its present suppliers outside of the United States. If events 
prevented the Company from acquiring products from its suppliers in a 
particular country, the Company's footwear operations could be 
temporarily disrupted and the Company could experience an adverse financial 
impact. However, the Company believes that it could eliminate any such 
disruption within a period of no more than 12 months, and that any adverse 
impact would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. The Company believes that 
its principal competitors are subject to similar risks.
 
 
  All Company products manufactured overseas and imported into the United 
States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service.
Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review 
by the Customs Service. The Company is unable to predict whether additional 
United States customs duties, quotas or other restrictions may be imposed on 
the importation of its products in the future. The enactment of any such 
duties, quotas or restrictions could result in increases in the cost of such 
products generally and might adversely affect the sales or profitability of 
the Company and the imported footwear industry as a whole. 
 
  Since 1972, Nissho Iwai American Corporation ("NIAC"), a subsidiary of 
Nissho Iwai Corporation, a large Japanese trading company, has performed 
significant financing and export-import services for the Company. The 
Company purchases through NIAC substantially all of the athletic footwear 
and apparel it acquires from overseas suppliers. The Company's agreements 
with NIAC extend through 2000, and the Company expects that the relationship 
will be continued beyond that date.
 
TRADE LEGISLATION 
 
 In 1995, President Clinton extended to June 1996, "most favored nation" 
(MFN), non-discriminatory trading status to the People's Republic of China 
(China).  Under U.S.law, MFN status for China is extended annually.  The United 
States has extended MFN status to China each year since 1980.  China is a 
material source of footwear production for the Company.  A revocation of 
MFN status would result in a substantial increase in tariff rates on goods 
imported from China, and, therefore could adversely affect the Company's 
operations.  While the United States continues to have foreign policy as well 
as human rights concerns with China, the Clinton Administration continues to 
oppose using China's MFN status as a means of addressing these concerns. 
However, even if NIKE's Chinese sources were affected by a change in 
China's MFN status, the Company believes that the impact of such change would 
not have a long term, material adverse impact on the Company's business. 
 
Certain countries within the European Community have for some time main- 
tained quotas restricting the importation of footwear manufactured in 
China.  With respect to such quotas, see the discussion in Item 7 below. 
 
In 1994, the United States, Mexico, and Canada implemented a North America 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).  Benefits to the Company include a phased 
elimination of duties on footwear and apparel produced and imported from 
Mexico, and the implementation and enforcement of new Mexican laws pro- 
tecting the intellectual property rights of United States companies doing 
business in Mexico.  While the Company currently purchases no apparel 
and only a fraction of its Cole Haan(R) shoes from Mexico, NAFTA may permit 
NIKE to economically source some products from Mexico. 
 
In April 1994, the 125 member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade (GATT), including the United States, signed a new pact to govern 
world trade.  The new agreement, which was approved by Congress in December 
1995 and became effective January 1, 1995 for most countries, should provide 
better international market access opportunities for U.S. goods and services.  
The agreement, among other things, significantly cuts global tariffs on many 
products, reduces or eliminates numerous non-tariff measures (such as quotas 
and discriminatory product standards), establishes stronger rules on the 
imposition of duties relating to the anti-dumping and subsidies codes, 
provides greater protection for intellectual property rights, and creates a 
strengthened dispute settlement procedure.  NIKE believes that the 
new agreement, once fully implemented by all countries, will reduce many 
of the obstacles to international trade and benefit the Company. 

In July 1995, President Clinton officially restored diplomatic relations 
between the United States and Vietnam. The President's action is a step 
toward possible restoration of full trade relations including the United 
States granting non-discriminatory MFN trading status to Vietnam which 
would result in lower tariffs between the two countries. The Company 
is currently sourcing some footwear products from factories in 
Vietnam.  MFN trading status for Vietnam could expand production and 
marketing opportunities for NIKE in Vietnam. 
 
 
COMPETITION 
 
  The athletic footwear and apparel industry is keenly competitive in 
the United States and on a worldwide basis. NIKE competes internationally 
with an increasing number of specialized athletic shoe companies, apparel 
companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic shoes 
and apparel, including Reebok, Adidas and others.  The intense competition 
and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the 
athletic shoe and apparel markets constitute significant risk factors in 
the Company's operations.
 
  NIKE is the largest supplier of athletic footwear in the world. Perfor- 
mance and reliability of shoes and apparel, new product development, price, 
product identity through marketing and promotion, and customer support 
and service are important aspects of competition in the athletic footwear 
and apparel industry. The Company believes that it is competitive in all 
of these areas.
 
TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS 
 
  NIKE utilizes trademarks on nearly all of its products and believes that
having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important 
factor in creating a market for its goods, in identifying the Company and 
in distinguishing its goods from the goods of others. The Company considers 
its NIKE(R) and Swoosh(R) design trademarks to be among its most valuable 
assets and has registered these trademarks in over 100 countries. In 
addition, the Company owns other trademarks which it utilizes in marketing 
its products. NIKE continues to vigorously protect its trademarks against 
infringement. 
 
  The Company has an exclusive, worldwide license to make and sell footwear 
using patented "Air" technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas 
encapsulated in polyurethane.  Some of the NIKE Air patents will expire 
in 1997, enabling competitors to use certain types of NIKE Air technology.  
The Company also has a number of patents covering components and features 
used in various athletic and leisure shoes. Management believes that NIKE's 
success depends upon skills in design, research and development, production 
and marketing rather than upon its patent position.  However, it has 
followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign 
patents on inventions and designs that it deems valuable. 
 
EMPLOYEES 
 
  The Company had approximately 14,240 employees at May 31, 1995. 
Management considers its relationship with its employees to be excellent. 
None of the Company's employees are represented by a union. There has never 
been a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. 
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
 
  The executive officers of the Company as of July 31, 1995 are as follows: 
 
  Philip H. Knight, Chief Executive Officer--Mr. Knight, 57, a director 
since 1968, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of NIKE. Mr. Knight is a co-founder of the Company and, except 
for the period from June 1983 through September 1984, served as its 
President from 1968 to 1990. Prior to 1968, Mr. Knight was a certified 
public accountant with Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand and was an 
Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University. 
 

 
  William J. Bowerman--Mr. Bowerman, 84, a director since 1968, has served 
as Deputy Chairman of the Board and Senior Vice President of NIKE since 
1980. Mr. Bowerman is a co-founder of the Company and served as Vice 
President from 1968 to 1980. From 1949 to 1972, Mr. Bowerman was head track 
coach at the University of Oregon, and he served as coach of the United 
States Olympic track team in 1972. 
 
  Harry C. Carsh, Vice President and General Manager, Sports and 
Fitness--Mr. Carsh, 56, joined the Company in 1977, and was elected 
Vice President in 1984 and appointed General Manager in 1993. Mr. Carsh 
has held executive positions in accounting, manufacturing and European 
marketing. He has served as Vice President in charge of the International 
Division, Vice President of Operations, and is currently Vice President and 
General Manager, Sports and Fitness. Prior to joining the Company, he 
served for four years as Vice President of Finance for Lancet Medical 
Industries. Mr. Carsh is a certified public accountant. 
 
  Thomas E. Clarke, President and Chief Operating Officer--Dr.Clarke, 44, 
a director since 1994, joined the Company in 1980 . Dr. Clarke has held 
various positions with the Company, primarily in research, design, 
development and marketing. He was appointed divisional vice president in 
charge of marketing in 1987. He was elected Vice President in 1989 and 
appointed General Manager in 1990. Dr. Clarke holds a Doctorate degree in 
biomechanics. 
 
  Gary DeStefano, Vice President, Sales--Mr. DeStefano, 38, has been 
employed by the Company since 1982, with primary responsibilities in 
sales and customer service. Mr. DeStefano was appointed Director of 
Domestic Sales in 1990 and was appointed divisional Vice President in 
charge of domestic sales in 1992.
 
  Elizabeth G. Dolan, Vice President, Corporate Communications and 
Marketing--Ms. Dolan, 38, has been employed by the Company since 1988, 
when she joined the Company as Director of Public Relations.  Ms. Dolan 
was appointed Vice President of Corporate Communications in 1990 and was 
elected Vice President of Marketing in 1994.  Prior to joining the Company, 
Ms. Dolan was Director of Public Relations at Cartier, Inc. in New York. 

  Robert S. Falcone, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer--Mr. 
Falcone, 48, has been employed by the Company since 1990. Mr. Falcone joined 
the Company as Director of Acquisitions. From May, 1991 through November, 
1991, he also served as interim Director of Human Resources, and he was 
elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1992. Prior to 
joining the Company, Mr. Falcone worked for 21 years as a certified public 
accountant for Price Waterhouse. 
 
  David Kottkamp, Vice President and General Manager, International 
Division--Mr. Kottkamp, 53, has been employed by the Company since 1978. 
He has held positions in the areas of apparel, Canadian operations and 
European operations. He was appointed divisional Vice President in 1988, 
and General Manager in 1992.
 
  Mark G. Parker, Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Product 
Marketing--Mr. Parker, 39, has been employed by the Company since 1979 
with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development. 
Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of development 
in 1987, elected Vice President in 1989, and appointed General Manager in 
January 1993.
 
 
  Lindsay D. Stewart, Vice President Legal and Corporate Affairs and 
Assistant Secretary--Mr. Stewart, 48, joined the Company as Assistant 
Corporate Counsel in 1981. Mr. Stewart became Corporate Counsel in 1983. 
He was elected Vice President and General Counsel in 1991. Prior to joining 
the Company, Mr. Stewart was in private practice and an attorney for 
Georgia-Pacific Corporation. 
 
  David B. Taylor, Vice President--Mr. Taylor, 40, has been employed by 
the Company since 1977, with primary responsibilities in production. Mr. 
Taylor was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of production in 
1988, and was elected Vice President in 1989. 
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 
  Following is a summary of principal properties owned or leased by the 
Company. The Company's leases expire at various dates throughout the 
year 2009. 
 
U.S. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:
 
  Beaverton, Oregon (7 locations)--       SALES OFFICES AND SHOWROOMS: 
  one owned and 6 leased 
                                          United States (16 locations)--1 
  Wilsonville, Oregon--owned               owned and 15 leased 
  Greenland, New Hampshire--owned         Florence, Italy--leased 
 
  Memphis, Tennessee (2 locations)- 
  -one owned and one leased               DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES: 
 
  Yarmouth, Maine (2 locations)-- 
  owned                                   Greenland, New Hampshire--owned 
 
                                          Wilsonville, Oregon (2 locations)--1 
  INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE            owned and 1 leased
  OFFICES:                                Memphis, Tennessee (2 locations)--1 
                                          owned and 1 leased 
  Europe (The Netherlands)--leased        Yarmouth, Maine (4 locations)--2 
  Italy--leased                             owned and 2 leased 
  Switzerland--leased                     Swanton, Vermont--leased
  Beaverton, Oregon--leased               St. Albans, Vermont--leased 
  Asia (Hong Kong)--leased                Canada (5 locations)--leased 
  Latin America (Argentina, Brazil        Latin America (3 locations)--leased 
  Chile and Mexico)--leased               Europe (15 locations)--leased 
  Canada (2 locations)--leased            Asia (9 locations)--leased 
                                           Victoria, Australia--leased 
 
  INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTION OFFICES:      
  Asia (7 locations)--leased 
  South America (3 locations)-- 
  leased 
 
  MANUFACTURING FACILITIES:               RETAIL OUTLETS: 
  Lewiston, Maine--leased                 United States (61 locations)-- 
  Livermore Falls, Maine--owned             58 leased and 3 owned 
  East Corinth, Maine--leased             Florence, Italy--leased 
  Cambridge, Ontario--leased              Toronto, Canada--leased 
  St. Jerome, Quebec--leased              Victoria, Australia--leased 
  Cambridge, Ontario--leased              Troyes, France--leased 
  Granby, Quebec--leased 
 
  Sanford, Maine--owned                   Undeveloped Land: 
  Beaverton, Oregon--leased 
 
  Greenville, North Carolina--            Beaverton, Oregon--176 acres--owned 
  leased 
  Irvine, California--leased 
  Earth City, Missouri--leased 
  Chesterfield, Missouri--leased 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
  There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary 
routine litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the 
Company is a party or of which any of its property is the subject. 
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 
 
  No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the 1995 fiscal 
year to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or 
otherwise. 
 
                                    PART II 
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
MATTERS
 
  The Company's Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NKE. 
At July 21, 1995 there were 6,803 holders of record of the Company's 
Class B Common Stock and 28 holders of record of the Company's Class A 
Common Stock. The Class A Common Stock is not publicly traded but each share 
is convertible upon request of the holder into one share of Class B Common 
Stock.
 
  Reference is made to the table entitled "Selected Quarterly Financial 
Data" in Item 6, which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range 
of high and low closing sales prices on the New York Stock Exchange, as 
adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split that became effective in 
October of 1990. Such table also sets forth the amount and frequency of all 
cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock for the 1994 and 1995 
fiscal years.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
 
 

 
 
 
All per common share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 
stock split paid October 5, 1990. The Company's Class B Common Stock is 
listed on the New York and Pacific Exchanges and trades under the symbol 
NKE. At May 31, 1995, there were approximately 67,000 shareholders. 
Years 1993 and prior have been restated to reflect the implementation of 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109 - Accounting for 
Income Taxes (see Notes 1 and 6).
 
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
 
HIGHLIGHTS 
 
Fiscal year 1995 was a record year, with milestones achieved for almost 
all income statement categories: 
 
- -Revenues exceeded $4 billion for the first time, increasing 
approximately $1 billion, up 25.6% over last year and 21.1% over the 
previous high in fiscal year 1993. All four quarters exceeded $1 billion 
each in revenues for the first time in the Company's history.
 
- -Gross margins established a new record, increasing .5% over the 
previous high of 39.3% achieved in both 1994 and 1993. 
 
- -Selling and administrative costs decreased .3% as a percent of 
revenues from the previous year. 
 
- -Net income rose to a record $399.7 million, an increase of 33.8% over 
fiscal 1994 and 9.5% over the previous record established in fiscal 
1993. Due to the share repurchase program, earnings per share increases 
were even higher with 37.4% and 14.8% increases over fiscal 1994 and 
fiscal 1993, respectively. 
 
- -The momentum appears to continue with record futures orders for the 
next six months of $2.5 billion reported, up 35% over the prior year.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

   Significantly higher revenues and improved gross margins, along 
with a reduced percentage of revenues in selling and administrative 
costs, were the primary factors in the record results for fiscal 1995 as 
compared to 1994. Fiscal 1994 experienced the first decline in seven 
years primarily as a result of decreased revenues and increased selling 
and administrative expenses as compared with the previous record year in 
fiscal 1993. During 1995, the Company was able to gain market share in 
the United States (U.S.) in spite of a rather mature market, where 
industry sources expected only a 3 to 5% market growth rate. The Company 
believes this was a result of both superior design and products, 
expansion of product categories and intensive marketing efforts. The 
Company's international markets are less mature than in the U.S. and 
offer more potential for growth. Accordingly, the Company has continued 
to invest in international infrastructure in order to capitalize on this 
potential and has seen higher selling and administrative expenses as a 
result. Through its aggressive worldwide marketing efforts and global 
infrastructure spending, the Company is positioning itself to continue 
to expand markets and gain market share on a worldwide basis. 
 
<PAGE 

   The Company experienced revenue growth in fiscal 1995 across all of 
the breakout categories (see chart), with the most significant increase 
in U.S. footwear, which grew $440.5 million, or 24%, as a result of 22% 
more pairs shipped at a 2% increase in average selling price per pair. 
Men's basketball business continues to dominate the category with 
revenues up 12% for the year. Women's fitness grew 26%, women's sport 
was up 45% and outdoor increased 48% over the prior year. International 
brand revenues also increased significantly, growing $360 million, or 
27% as a result of a $246.1 million (25%) increase in international 
footwear revenues and a $113.9 million (32%) increase in international 
apparel revenues. International revenues were increased 7% as a result 
of the foreign currency translation impact.  While European revenues 
remained relatively constant in spite of decreases in France and 
Germany, the Asia Pacific and Americas regions were up substantially 
with 81% and 61% increases, respectively. Asia Pacific growth was 
primarily a result of Japan and newly owned NIKE Korea, while the 
Americas region was up primarily as a result of newly owned NIKE 
Argentina and improved revenues in Canada. U.S. apparel revenues 
rebounded strongly, up $85.4 million (25%), and other brands - which 
includes Cole Haan,-  Tetra Plastics, Inc., Sports Specialties Corp. 
and newly acquired Canstar Sports Inc. - grew $85.3 million primarily 
due to the addition of Canstar. 
 
   The 4% decline in fiscal 1994 revenues was attributable to decreases 
in sales of U.S. and international footwear and U.S. apparel. The 5% 
U.S. footwear decrease was a result of a 2% drop in pairs shipped and a 
3% decline in average selling price per pair, and was attributed 
primarily to a 22% reduction in basketball category revenues offset 
partially by gains in cross-training, outdoor and women's fitness 
categories. International decreased as a result of reduced footwear 
revenues offset slightly by increased apparel revenues. The decline 
was a result of poor economies in Europe. This was partially offset by 
growth in revenues from Asia Pacific and Latin America, with the largest 
contributor being the addition of NIKE Japan in the third quarter of 
fiscal 1994. 
 
The breakdown of revenues follows: 
 
  
 
 
   Gross margin increased to 39.8% in fiscal 1995 as compared to 39.3% in 
both 1994 and 1993. Gross margin improvement can be attributed to strong 
consumer demand for NIKE brand products (resulting in lower closeout 
levels and increased revenues to cover fixed operating costs), internally 
controlled close-out distribution, a solid inventory position and strong 
inventory management, and the Company's innovative advance futures order 
program. Fiscal 1995 margin was up across all footwear and apparel 
categories except for certain other brands. Similarly, 1994 margin was up 
in the NIKE brand categories, reduced by margins in other brands. 
International margin increased in 1995 over 1994 and 1993, where 
improvement was noted in the second half of 1994 as a result of lower 
closeouts and improved inventory position over the first half of 1994 and 
all of 1993. The Company continues to place strong emphasis on inventory 
management, minimizing foreign exchange risk, and production sourcing in 
order to maximize gross profit. 
 
   Total selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues 
decreased to 25.4% as compared to 25.7% in 1994 and 23.5% in 1993. The 
reduction can be attributed primarily to the increase in revenues. The 
increase in absolute dollar terms was primarily a result of U.S. 
marketing, new NIKE-owned international subsidiaries and Canstar and 
international infrastructure expenses. The increase in 1994 over 1993 was 
attributed to new NIKE-owned international operations and planned growth 
in international infrastructure. The Company plans to continue to invest 
in growth opportunities and worldwide marketing. 
 
 
 
   Consolidated interest expense increased approximately $9 million as a 
result of significant operational and investment cash needs financed with 
short term borrowings. During the prior year, the Company was in a high net 
cash position that resulted in lower short-term operating borrowing needs, 
and the Company also reduced its long-term debt with the repayment of 
$50 million in long-term notes at the beginning of fiscal 1994. 
 
   Other (income)/expense rose $3.5 million in expense over 1994 primarily 
as a result of increased goodwill amortization and additional non-recurring 
specific obligations related to the shutdown of certain facilities in 
conjunction with the consolidation of European warehouses discussed in 
the prior year. These were offset partially by increased interest income 
resulting from higher interest rates and excess cash in the first half of 
the year. 
 
   The effective tax rate decreased to 38.5% from 39.1% in 1994 and 38.6% 
in 1993. The decrease was primarily the result of lower taxes provided on 
non-U.S. earnings. Fiscal 1994's effective rate increased due to the U.S. 
federal tax increase of 1%, which was applied retroactively, and the 
Company's subsequent implementation of Financial Accounting Standards 
Board (FASB) Statement 109, which required the application of the 1% 
increase to deferred taxes. This increase was partially offset by the 
Company's decision to permanently reinvest more foreign earnings overseas, 
reducing tax expense by the U.S. tax previously recognized. The Company 
anticipates the effective rate for fiscal 1996 will approximate the rate for 
1995. 
 
   Worldwide orders for NIKE brand footwear and apparel scheduled for 
delivery between June and November, 1995, are approximately $2.5 
billion, 35% higher than such orders in the comparable period of the 
prior year. These orders are not necessarily indicative of total revenues 
for the subsequent periods because the mix of advance orders and "at once" 
shipments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. 
Additionally, as international operations continue to shift to a greater 
emphasis on futures orders, this mix may again vary. Finally, exchange rate 
fluctuations can also cause differences in comparisons. 
 
   The Company operates globally, giving rise to exposures of market risks 
from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company uses 
highly liquid foreign currency spot, forward and purchased options with 
high credit quality financial institutions in order to minimize the effects 
of fluctuations on the Company's foreign currency transactions. The Company 
only transacts foreign exchange contracts to hedge underlying economic 
exposures and does not transact in derivatives for trading or speculative 
purposes. Where possible, the Company nets its foreign exchange exposures 
to take advantage of natural offsets that occur in the normal course of 
business. Firmly committed transactions are hedged with forward exchange 
contracts. Anticipated, but not yet firmly committed transactions, may be 
hedged through the use of purchased options.  Additional information 
concerning the Company's hedging activities is presented in Note 14 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
   The results of operations were favorably affected by weakening of the 
U.S. dollar in comparision to foreign currencies. Generally, a weaker U.S. 
dollar will result in higher translation of operating results in these 
financial statements than would a stronger U.S. dollar. 
 
   The Company's international operations are subject to the usual 
risks of doing business abroad, such as the imposition of import quotas or 
anti-dumping duties. In this regard, the European Union (the "EU") has 
imposed quotas that restrict the importation into the EU of certain footwear 
manufactured in The People's Republic of China (the "PRC"). Such quotas are 
applicable throughout all of the Member States that comprise the EU. 
While such quotas have required the Company to limit the quantities of 
footwear sourced in the PRC, they included an exemption for higher value 
special technology sports footwear and have not had a material adverse 
impact on the Company's business. 
 
   In February, 1995, the EU Commission, at the request of the European 
footwear manufacturers, initiated two anti-dumpting investigations 
covering certain footwear imported from the PRC, Indonesia and Thailand. 
The investigations expressly exclude certain athletic footwear (as 
defined in the Notices of Initiation of Anti-Dumping Proceedings). The 
Company believes that most of its footwear sourced in the target countries 
fits within these exclusions and, therefore, that it will not be materially 
affected by these investigations. However, to some degree, the language 
of the exclusions is not sufficiently precise to preclude the possibility 
of varying interpretations by the EU Commission and the national customs 
authorities of the Member States (e.g. as to the meaning of terms such as 
"sports footwear" or "footwear designed for a sporting activity"). As of 
the end of the 1995 fiscal year, the Company is unable to predict the 
likelihood that the EU Commission will ultimately impose anti-dumping 
duties on any of the footwear covered by the investigations, or the 
amount of any such duties. If the EU Commission were to impose such 
duties on some of the Company's footwear, it is possible that the Company 
would consider shifting some production to other countries in order to 
maintain competitive prices. The Company believes that it is prepared to 
deal effectively with any such duties that may arise and that any adverse 
impact would be of a short-term nature. 
 
   The Company continues to closely monitor international trade 
restrictions and to develop contingency plans. The Company believes that 
its major competitors would be similarly impacted by any such restrictions.
 
 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
   The Company's financial position remains extremely strong at May 31, 
1995. Total assets exceeded $3 billion for the first time and shareholder's 
equity increased $224 million to approximately $2 billion. Cash and 
equivalents decreased $303 million (58%) primarily as a result of the 
purchase of Canstar in the amount of $409 million and increased operational 
cash needs. Working capital decreased $270 million as a result of increased 
notes and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, lower cash and 
equivalents (as discussed previously), offset by increased inventories 
and accounts receivable. The Company's current ratio was 1.8 at May 31, 
1995, compared to 3.2 at May 31, 1994, decreasing primarily due to the 
addition of NIKE-brand subsidiaries with assets substantially equivalent 
to liabilities and the use of cash to purchase Canstar, converting a 
current asset (cash) to long-term assets. 
 
   Inventory levels have increased $160 million since May 31, 1994, 
primarily due to the addition of Canstar and new NIKE-brand subsidiaries. 
U.S. footwear and apparel and international inventories also increased in 
anticipation of the high level of futures orders for the next quarter. 
Accounts receivable increased $350 million (50%) due to the high level of 
fourth quarter revenues (41% higher than the previous year) as well as the 
addition of NIKE-brand subsidiaries and Canstar.  
 
   Cash provided by operations was $255 million in 1995 compared to 
$576 million and $265 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively. The increase 
in 1994 was a result of decreased inventory levels, offset partially by 
decreases in net income and non-cash charges.  
 
   Additions to property, plant and equipment for fiscal 1995 were $154 
million, with the most significant component related to the consolidation 
of European footwear warehouses. Total property, plant and equipment 
increased in excess of this amount due to Canstar and new NIKE-brand 
subsidiaries. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $95 million 
and $97 million in fiscal 1994 and 1993, respectively, were related to the 
expansion of existing U.S. headquarters and U.S. and international warehouse 
facilities to satisfy increased capacity needs, along with investments in 
management information systems and new NIKE retail locations. Anticipated 
capital expenditures for fiscal 1996 approximate $177 million, with the 
primary components consisting of the continued consolidation of European 
footwear warehouses and expansion of NIKE TOWN retail locations. 
Funding is expected to be provided primarily by operations. 
 
   Current liabilities increased $546 million, with a significant portion 
of the increase due to the addition of Canstar and new NIKE-brand 
subsidiaries which added operationally related debt, including notes 
and accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Additionally, operating 
cash needs increased due to the high level of revenues and orders, combined 
with the reduction in excess cash which was used to purchase Canstar. 
 
   Additional investing activities in 1995 included the acquisition of 
Canstar and certain international distributors, including Korea, and in 
1994 included the acquisition of NIKE Japan. 
 
   During fiscal 1994, the Company announced that the Executive Committee of 
its Board of Directors, acting within limits set by the Board, authorized 
a plan to repurchase a maximum of $450 million of NIKE Class B Common 
Stock over a period of up to three years. Funding has, and is expected to 
continue to come from operating cash in potential combination with 
occasional short or medium-term borrowings. The timing and the amount of 
shares purchased will be dictated by working capital needs and stock market 
conditions. As of May 31, 1995, the Company had repurchased 4.9 million 
shares at a total cost of $282.9 million. 
 
   Dividends per share of common stock for fiscal 1995 rose $.15 over fiscal 
1994 to $.95 per share. The Company has declared a dividend in every quarter 
since February 1984. Based upon current projected earnings and cash flow 
requirements, the Company anticipates continuing a dividend and reviews 
the amount at the second-quarter board meeting. The Company's policy 
continues to target an annual dividend in the range of 15% to 25% of 
trailing twelve-month earnings. 
 
 
 
   The Company's commercial paper program, rated A1 by Standard and Poor's 
Corporation and P1 by Moody's Investors Service, requires the support of 
committed and uncommitted lines of credit. There was $118,609,000 
outstanding under this program at May 31, 1995 and no amounts outstanding 
at May 31, 1994. Additionally, no amounts were outstanding at May 31, 
1995 and 1994, under a committed $300 million multiple option credit 
facility. (See Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further 
details concerning the Company's short-term borrowing.) NIKE's debt-to- 
equity ratio was 0.6:1, 0.4:1 and 0.3:1 at May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, 
respectively.
 
   Management believes that funds generated by operations, together with 
currently available resources, will adequately finance anticipated fiscal 
1996 expenditures, with the potential exception of the stock repurchase 
program discussed above. 
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA 
 
                                Financial Reporting 
 
   Management of NIKE, Inc. is responsible for the information and 
representations contained in this report. The financial statements have 
been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting 
principles we considered appropriate in the circumstances and include some 
amounts based on our best estimates and judgments. Other financial 
information in this report is consistent with these financial statements.  
 
   The Company's accounting systems include controls designed to reasonably 
assure that assets are safeguarded from unauthorized use or disposition and 
which provide for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles. These systems are supplemented by 
the selection and training of qualified financial personnel and an 
organizational structure providing for appropriate segregation of duties. 
 
   An Internal Audit department reviews the results of its work with the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, presently consisting of three 
outside directors of the Company. The Audit Committee is responsible for 
recommending to the Board of Directors the appointment of the independent 
accountants and reviews with the independent accountants, management and 
the internal audit staff, the scope and the results of the annual 
examination, the effectiveness of the accounting control system and other 
matters relating to the financial affairs of the Company as they deem 
appropriate. The independent accountants and the internal auditors have 
full access to the Committee, with and without the presence of management, 
to discuss any appropriate matters. 
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS 
 
Portland, Oregon 
July 6, 1995 
To the Board of Directors and 
Shareholders of NIKE, Inc.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index 
appearing under Item 14(a)(1) and (2) on page 29 present fairly, in all 
material respects the financial position of NIKE, Inc. and its subsidiaries 
at May 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 1995, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based 
on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, 
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable 
basis for the opinion expressed. 
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP 
 
Portland, Oregon 
July 6, 1995 
 
 
 

                                    NIKE, INC.
 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
 
  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are 
an integral part of this statement.
 

 
 
                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
  
  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are 
an integral part of this statement. 
 
 
 
 
                                             NIKE, INC. 
                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 
 
  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an 
integral part of this statement. 
 
 
 
                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: 
 
 Basis of consolidation: 
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company 
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions 
and balances have been eliminated. To facilitate the timely preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements, the accounts of certain 
international operations have been consolidated for fiscal years ending 
in April. 
 
Recognition of revenues: 
 
Revenues recognized include sales plus fees earned on sales by licensees. 
 
Avertising: 
 
Advertising production costs are expensed the first time the 
advertisement is run. Media (TV and print) placement costs are expensed 
in the month the advertising appears. 
 
Cash and equivalents: 
 
Cash and equivalents represent cash and short-term, highly liquid 
investments with original maturities three months or less. 
 
Inventory valuation: 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is 
determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially 
all U. S. inventories. International inventories are valued on a first-in, 
first-out (FIFO) basis. 
 
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation: 
 
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation for 
financial reporting purposes is determined on a straight-line basis for 
buildings and leasehold improvements and principally on a declining balance 
basis for machinery and equipment, based upon estimated useful lives ranging 
from three to thirty-two years. 
 
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: 
 
At May 31, 1995 and 1994 the Company had patents, trademarks and other 
identifiable intangible assets with a value of $200,369,000 and $11,738,000, 
respectively. At May 31, 1995 and 1994 the Company's excess of purchase cost 
over the fair value to net assets of businesses acquired (goodwill) was 
$338,560,000 and $182,212,000, respectively. Identifiable intangible assets 
and goodwill are being amortized over their estimated useful lives on a 
straight-line basis over five to forty years. Amortization expense was 
$13,176,000, $8,409,000 and $5,863,000 for the years ended May 31, 1995, 
1994, and 1993, respectively. Amortization is included in other 
income/expense. Accumulated amortization was $43,022,000 and $30,914,000 at 
May 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Intangible assets are periodically 
reviewed by the Company for impairments where the fair value is less than 
the carrying value. 
 
Other non-current liabilities: 
 
Other non-current liabilities include amounts with settlement dates 
beyond one year, and are primarily composed of long-term deferred 
endorsement payments of $26,893,000 and $33,586,000 at May 31, 1995 and 
1994, respectively. Deferred payments to endorsers relate to amounts due 
beyond contract termination, which are discounted at various interest rates 
and accrued over the contract period. 
 
Endorsement contracts: 

Accounting for endorsement contracts is based upon specific contract 
provisions. Generally, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly 
over the term of the contract after giving recognition to periodic 
performance compliance provisions of the contracts. 
 
Foreign currency translation: 
 
Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency 
financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the currency 
translation adjustment in shareholders' equity. 
 
 
Derivatives: 
 
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts in order to 
reduce the impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations. Firmly 
committed transactions are hedged with forward exchange contracts. 
Anticipated, but not yet firmly committed, transactions may be hedged 
through the use of purchased options. Gains and losses related to hedges 
of firmly committed transactions are deferred and are recognized in income 
or as adjustments of carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs. 
 Premiums paid on purchased options are included in other assets and are 
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. See 
Note 14 for further discussion. 
 
Income taxes: 
 
Income taxes are provided currently on financial statement earnings of 
international subsidiaries expected to be repatriated. The Company intends 
to determine annually the amount of undistributed international earnings 
to invest indefinitely in its international operations. 
 
In June 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FAS 109). The adoption of 
FAS109 changes the Company's method of accounting for income taxes from the 
deferred method (APB 11) to an asset and liability approach. Previously 
the Company deferred the past tax effects of timing differences between 
financial reporting and taxable income. The asset and liability approach 
requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the 
expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts and the tax bases of other assets and liabilities. See 
Note 6 for further discussion. 
 
Net income per common share: 
 
Net income per common share is computed based on the weighted average 
number of common and common equivalent (stock option) shares outstanding 
for the periods reported. 
 
Reclassifications: 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 
1995 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported 
results of operations or shareholders' equity. 
 
 
NOTE 2 - INVENTORIES 
 
 
 
The excess of replacement cost over LIFO cost approximated $19,512,000 
at May 31, 1995, and $19,367,000 at May 31, 1994. During 1994, certain 
inventory quantities were reduced resulting in liquidations, which were 
not material, of LIFO inventory quantities carried at different costs 
prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost of those years 
purchases. 
 
 
NOTE 3 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following:
 
 
 
Capitalized interest expense relating to construction of the Company's 
world headquarters and other projects was $261,000, $270,000 and $767,000 
for the fiscal years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 
 
NOTE 4 - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT LINES 
 
Notes payable to banks and interest bearing accounts payable 
to Nissho Iwai American Corporation (NIAC) are summarized below: 
 

At May 31, 1995 and 1994, NIKE had no outstanding borrowings under its 
$300 million unsecured multiple option facility with sixteen banks, 
which matures on November 30, 1997. This agreement contains optional
 borrowing alternatives consisting of a committed revolving loan 
facility and a competitive bid facility. The interest rate charged 
on this agreement is determined by the borrowing option and under 
the committed revolving loan facility is either the Prime Rate or 
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus .30%. The agreement provides 
for annual fees of .125% of the total commitment. Under the agreement, 
the Company must maintain, among other things, certain minimum specified 
financial ratios and balances. Domestic subsidiaries had $0 and $6,462,000 
outstanding at May 31, 1995, and May 31, 1994, respectively, under 
unsecured, uncommitted short-term credit agreements. 
 
Ratings for the Company to issue commercial paper, which is required to be 
supported by committed and uncommitted lines of credit, are A1 by 
Standard and Poor's Corporation and P1 by Moody's Investor Service. 
At May 31, 1995 there was $118,609,000 outstanding and at May 31, 1994 
there were no amounts outstanding under these arrangements. 
 
The Company has outstanding loans at interest rates at various spreads above 
the banks' cost of funds for financing international operations. Certain of 
these loans can be secured by accounts receivable and inventory. 
 
The Company purchases through NIAC substantially all of the athletic footwear 
and apparel it acquires from non-U.S. suppliers. Accounts payable to NIAC 
are generally due up to 115 days after shipment of goods from the foreign 
port. Interest on such accounts payable accrues at the ninety day 
LIBOR rate as of the beginning of the month of the invoice date, plus .30%. 
 
 

NOTE 5 - LONG-TERM DEBT 
 
Long-term debt includes the following:
(in thousands)
 
May 31                                          1995         1994 

10.4% senior secured note                     $22,244    $    __ 
9.43% capital warehouse lease, payable in 
quarterly installments through 2007             9,078      9,098 
Other                                          11,186      7,123 
 
     Total                                     42,508     16,221 
Less current maturities                        31,943      3,857 
 
                                              $10,565    $12,364 
 
 
The senior secured note was acquired in connection with the acquisition 
of Canstar and was liquidated subsequent to year-end.Amounts of long-term 
maturities in each of the five fiscal years 1996 through 2000 respectively, 
are $31,943,000, $1,606,000, $1,402,000, $1,130,000 and $956,000. 
 
  
NOTE 6 - INCOME TAXES: 
 
Income before income taxes and the provision for income 
taxes are as follows:  
 
 
During fiscal 1994 the Company permanently reinvested approximately 
$56,000,000 of its undistributed international earnings in certain 
international subsidiaries. This resulted in a reduction of $12,800,000 
in the 1994 provision for deferred income taxes. 
 
On August 10, 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 was 
signed into law, raising corporate rates 1%. This resulted in an increase 
of approximately $7,200,000 in tax expense, computed as the impact of the 
1% applied retroactively to earnings from January 1, 1993, and also to 
deferred taxes in accordance with FAS 109. 
 
 
 
The Company adopted FAS 109 during the first quarter of fiscal 1994. 
The Company has elected to report the cumulative effect of the FAS 109 
adoption as of May  31, 1987. The cumulative effect of $3,207,000 has 
been recorded as a reduction in common shareholder's equity for each of 
the years subsequent to 1987. There was no impact on the results of 
operations previously reported for the years 1987 through 1993. The 
adoption of FAS 109 had no effect on income taxes, the provision for 
income taxes, and the effective tax rates for the years ended May 31, 
1993. 
 
As of May 31, 1995, the Company has utilized all foreign tax credits. 
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following: 
 
 

A reconciliation from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to the 
effective income tax rate follows: 
 
 
During 1982, the Company purchased future tax benefits for 
$15,277,000. Tax benefits of $4,229,000 in excess of the purchase 
price have been recognized as of May 31, 1995 and are classified in 
non-current deferred income taxes. 
 
NOTE 7 - REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK
 
Nissho Iwai American Corporation (NIAC) is the sole owner of the 
Company's authorized Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1 par value, which 
is redeemable at the option of NIAC at par value aggregating $300,000. 
A cumulative dividend of $.10 per share is payable annually on May 31 and 
no dividends may be declared or paid on the Common Stock of the Company 
unless dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock have been declared and 
paid in full. There have been no changes in the Redeemable Preferred Stock 
in the three years ended May 31, 1995. As the holder of the Redeemable 
Preferred Stock, NIAC does not have general voting rights but does have 
the right to vote as a separate class on the sale of all or substantially 
all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, on merger, 
consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or on the sale 
or assignment of the NIKE trademark for athletic footwear sold in the 
United States. 
 
 
 
NOTE 8 - COMMON STOCK 
 
The authorized number of shares of Class A Common Stock no par 
value and Class B Common Stock no par value are 60,000,000 and 150,000,000, 
respectively. Each share of Class A common Stock is convertible into one 
share of Class B Common Stock. Voting rights of Class B Common Stock are 
limited in certain circumstances with respect to the election of directors. 
 
The Company's Employee Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1980 Plan") was 
adopted in 1980 and expired on December 31, 1990. The 1980 Plan provided 
for the issuance of up to 3,360,000 shares of the Company's Class B Common 
Stock in connection with the exercise of stock options granted under such 
plan. No further grants will be made under the 1980 Plan. 
 
In 1990, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, 
the NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1990 Plan"). The 1990 Plan 
provides for the issuance of up to 4,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock 
in connection with stock options and other awards granted under such plan. 
The 1990 Plan authorizes the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory 
stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, and the sale of 
restricted stock. The exercise price for incentive stock options may not be 
less than the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date 
of grant. The exercise price for non-statutory stock options and stock 
appreciation rights, and the purchase price of restricted stock, may not be 
less than 75% of the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date 
of grant. No consideration will be paid for stock bonuses awarded under the 
1990 Plan. The 1990 Plan is administered by a committee of the Board of 
Directors. The committee has the authority to determine the employees to 
whom awards will be made, the amount of the awards, and the other terms 
and conditions of the awards. As of May 31, 1995, the committee has 
granted substantially all non-statutory stock options at 100% of fair 
market value on the date of grant under the 1990 Plan. 
 
The following summarizes the stock option transactions under the 1980 
Plan and 1990 Plan for the three fiscal years ended May 31, 1995: 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the option plans discussed previously, the Company 
has several agreements outside of the plans with certain directors, 
endorsers and employees. As of May 31, 1995, 1,018,000 options with exercise 
prices ranging from $.417 per share to $76.25 per share had been granted. 
The aggregate compensation expenses related to these agreements is $5,670,000 
and is being amortized over vesting periods from October 1980 through October 
1998. The outstanding agreements expire from February 1998 through September 
2005.The following summarizes transactions outside the option plans for the 
three years ended May 31, 1995: 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 9 - BENEFIT PLANS: 
 
The Company has a profit sharing plan available to substantially 
all employees. The terms of the plan call for annual contributions 
by the Company as determined by the Board of Directors. Contributions 
of $11,200,000, $8,500,000 and $10,300,000 to the plan are included in 
other expense in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 
May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.The Company has a voluntary 
401(k) employee savings plan. The Company matches a portion of employee 
contributions vesting that portion over 5 years. Company contributions to 
the savings plan were $3,363,000, $3,503,000 and $3,150,000 for the years 
ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 
 
NOTE 10 - OTHER INCOME/NET: 
 
Included in other income for the years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 
and 1993, is interest income of $26,094,000, $19,064,000 and $15,377,000, 
respectively. During the two fiscal years ending May 31, 1995 and 1994 
the Company recognized $11,412,000 and $7,060,000, respectively in non-
recurring specific obligations associated with the shutdown of certain 
facilities in conjunction with the consolidation of European warehouses.
 
NOTE 11 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: 
 
The Company leases space for its offices, warehouses and retail 
stores under leases expiring from one to fifteen years after May 31, 
1995. Rent expense aggregated $43,506,000, $37,677,000 and $33,195,000 
for the years ended May 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Amounts 
of minimum future annual rental commitments under non-cancellable 
operating leases in each of the five fiscal years 1996 through 2000 are 
$41,062,000, $42,572,000, $38,544,000, $34,955,000, $24,689,000, 
respectively, and $237,699,000 in later years. 
 
Lawsuits arise during the normal course of business. In the opinion of 
management, none of the pending lawsuits will result in a significant 
impact on the consolidated results of operations or financial position. 
 
 
 
NOTE 12 - ACQUISITION OF CANSTAR SPORTS INC.: 
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 1995, NIKE acquired all the 
outstanding shares of Canstar Sports Inc., the world's largest hockey 
equipment manufacturer. The acquisition was accounted for using the 
purchase method of accounting. The cash purchase price, including 
acqusition costs, was approximately $409 million. 
 
Canstar's assets and liabilities have been recorded in the Company's 
consolidated balance sheet at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill relating to the purchase 
approximated $336 million with estimated useful lives ranging from 10 
to 40 years. The amortization period is based on NIKE's belief that the 
combined company has substantial potential for achieving long-term 
appreciation of the fully integrated global company. Canstar will permit 
the continued expansion of the current lines of business, as well as the 
development of new businesses, which can be used to strategically exploit 
the companies' brand names and products on an accelerated basis. NIKE 
believes that the combined company will benefit from the acquisition for 
an indeterminable period of time of at least 40 years and that therefore 
a 40-year amortization period is appropriate. The proforma effect of the 
acquisition on the combined results of operations was not significant.  
 
 
 
NOTE 13 - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: 
 
The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheet 
for cash and equivalents and notes payable approximate fair value as 
reported in the balance sheet because of their short maturities. The 
fair value of long-term debt is estimated using discounted cash flow 
analyses, based on the Company's incremental borrowing rates for similar 
types of borrowing arrangements. The fair value of the Company's long-term 
debt at May 31, 1995, is approximately $9,891,000, compared to a carrying 
value $10,565,000. See Note 14 for discussion of derivatives. 
 
NOTE 14 - FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES: 
 
The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is 
to protect the Company from the risk that the eventual dollar net cash 
inflows resulting from the sale and purchase of products in foreign 
currencies will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. The 
Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 
It is the Company's policy to utilize derivative financial instruments to 
reduce foreign exchange risks where internal netting strategies cannot be 
effectively employed. Fluctuations in the value of hedging instruments are 
offset by fluctuations in the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. 
 
The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm 
purchases and sales commitments and purchases currency options to hedge 
certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions denominated 
in foreign currencies. Premiums paid on purchased options are included in 
other assets and liabilities and recognized in earnings when the future 
obligation being hedged is recognized. Deferred gains and losses on forward 
exchange contracts are recognized in earnings when the future purchases and 
sales being hedged are recognized.  The estimated fair values of derivatives 
used to hedge the Company's risks will fluctuate over time. The fair value 
of the forward exchange contracts is estimated by obtaining quoted market 
prices. The fair value of option contracts is estimated using option pricing 
models widely used in the financial markets. These fair value amounts should 
not be viewed in isolation, but rather in relation to the fair values of the 
underlying hedged trans-actions and the overall reduction in the Company's 
exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The notional 
amounts of derivatives summarized below do not necessarily represent amounts 
exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not a direct measure of the 
exposure of the Company through its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged 
are calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and the other terms of 
the derivatives, which relate to interest rates, exchange rates or other 
financial indices. 
 
The following table presents the aggregate notional principal amounts, 
carrying values and fair values of the Company's derivative financial 
instruments outstanding at May 31, 1995 and 1994 (in millions). 
 
 
Net unrealized losses deferred at May 31, 1995 and 1994 were approximately 
$11.4 and $13.2 million, respectively. At May 31, 1995 and May 31, 1994, 
the Company had no contracts outstanding with maturities beyond one year. 
 
The counterparties to derivative transactions are major financial institutions 
with investment grade or better credit ratings; however, the Company is 
exposed to credit risk with these institutions. This credit risk is generally 
limited to the unrealized gains in such contracts should any of these 
counterparties fail to perform as contracted. To manage this risk, the 
Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines which are 
continually monitored and reported to Senior Management according to 
prescribed guidelines. Additionally, the Company utilizes a portfolio of 
financial institutions either headquartered or operating in the same 
countries the Company conducts its business. As a result, the Company 
considers the risk of counterparty default to be minimal. 
 
 

NOTE 15 - INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA: 

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment, that 
being the design, production, marketing and selling of sports and fitness 
footwear, apparel and accessories. During 1995, 1994 and 1993, sales to 
one major customer amounted to approximately 14% of total sales in those 
years. The geographic distributions of the Company's identifiable assets, 
operating income and revenues are summarized in the following tables. 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
 
  There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with 
accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or 
financial statement disclosure required to be reported under this Item.
 

                                    PART III 
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
 
  The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission its 
definitive proxy statement dated August 7, 1995 for the annual meeting 
of shareholders to be held on September 18, 1995. The information 
required by this Item with respect to the Company's directors is 
incorporated herein by reference from pages 3 through 6 and 
10 of such proxy statement. Information called for by this Item with 
respect to the Company's executive officers is set forth under "Executive 
Officers of the Registrant" in Item 1 of this Report. 
 
  The information required by Items 11-13 of Part III is incorporated 
herein by reference from the indicated pages of the Company's definitive 
Proxy Statement dated August 7, 1995 for its 1995 annual meeting of 
shareholders.
 
 
 
                                    PART IV 
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. 
 
(A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT: 

 
  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the 
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes 
thereto.
 
 
  3. EXHIBITS: 
 
    3.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (incorporated by 
        reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1988 and Exhibit 4.1 
        to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal 
        quarter ended August 31, 1990). 
 
    3.2 Second Restated Bylaws, as amended (incorporated by reference 
        from Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
        the fiscal year ended May 31, 1993). 
 
    4.1 Articles IV, VI, VII, VIII and X of the Restated Articles of  
        Incorporation, as amended (see Exhibit 3.1). 
 
    4.2 Articles II, III, VII, IX and X of the Second Restated Bylaws, as 
        amended (see Exhibit 3.2). 
 
   10.1 Credit Agreement dated as of June 1, 1991 among NIKE, Inc., 
        The First National Bank of Chicago, individually and as Agent, 
        and the other banks party thereto (incorporated by reference 
        from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
        year ended May 31, 1991).
 
   10.2 Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of January 1, 1994 
        extending  the termination date of the revolving credit in 
        Exhibit 10.1 facility to November 30, 1995 (incorporated 
        by reference from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
        for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1995). 
 
   10.3 Form of non-employee director Stock Option Agreement (incorporated 
        by refernce from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1993).* 

   10.4 Form of Indemnity Agreement entered into between the Company and 
        each of its officers and directors (incorporated by reference from 
        the Company's definitive proxy statement filed in connection with 
        its annual meeting of shareholders held on September 21, 1987).
 
   10.5 NIKE, Inc. Restated Employee Incentive Compensation Plan 
        (incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No. 33-29262 
        on Form S-8 filed by the Company on June 16, 1989).* 
 
   10.6 NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference 
        from the Company's definitive proxy statement filed in connection 
        with its annual meeting of shareholders held on September 17, 1990).* 
 
   10.7 Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Agreement between NIKE, Inc. 
        and Philip H. Knight dated March 10, 1994 (incorporated by 
        reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for he fiscal year ended May 31, 1994.* 
 
   21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
 
   23 Consent of Price Waterhouse, independent certified public accountants 
      (set forth on page F-4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).
 
*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
 
  Upon written request to Investor Relations, NIKE, Inc., One Bowerman 
Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453, the Company will furnish share- 
holders with a copy of any Exhibit upon payment of $.10 per page, which 
represents the Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing such Exhibits.
 
(B) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during 
    the last quarter of fiscal 1995: 
 
    March 16, 1995   Item 5. Other Events         Press Release regarding 
                                                  third quarter earnings 
                                                    release. 
 
    April 24, 1994   Item 2. Acquisition or       Reporting consummation of 
                       Disposition of Assets      purchase of outstanding 
                                                  shares of Canstar Sports Inc. 
 
                     Item 7. Financial State-     Pro Forma Condensed 
                       ments, Pro Forma           Combined Balance Sheet 
                       Financial Information 
                       and Exhibits
 
 
 

- --------
 
 
                                      F-1 
 

                                  SCHEDULE IX 
 
                            SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS(1) 
                                 (IN THOUSANDS) 

 
- -------- 
Notes:
(1) For information pertaining to the general terms of short-term 
    borrowings, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2) Represents the maximum amount of short-term borrowing outstanding at a 
    month-end during the respective period.
(3) The average amount outstanding during the period is calculated by 
    dividing the total of principal outstanding at each month-end by 12. 
    The weighted average interest rate during the period is calculated by 
    dividing the interest expense for the year by the average amount 
    outstanding. 
(4) NIAC refers to Nissho Iwai American Corporation, a subsidiary of 
    Nissho Iwai Corporation, a Japanese trading company.
 
                                      F-2
 

                                   SCHEDULE X 
 
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION 
                                 (IN THOUSANDS) 


  The other required categories of expenses have not been shown because 
they do not exceed one percent of revenues. 
 
                                      F-3 
 

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS 
 
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the documents 
listed below, of our report dated July 6, 1995, which appears on Page 14 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
 
    1. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-8 (No. 2-81419); 
 
    2. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-8 (No. 33-29262); 
 
    3. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-43205). 
 
    4. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-48977); and 

    5. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-41842). 
 
Price Waterhouse LLP 
Portland, Oregon 
August 29, 1995 
 
                                      F-4 
 

                                   SIGNATURES 
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE 
SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          NIKE, Inc. 
 
Date: August 29, 1995 
                                                 /s/ Philip H. Knight 
                                          By _______________________________ 

                                                     Philip H. Knight, 
                                                 Chairman of the Board and 
                                                  Chief Executive Officer 
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS 
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE 
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 
                                          Principal Executive Officer and 
                                          Director:
 
Date: August 29, 1995                            /s/ Philip H. Knight
                                          By _______________________________ 

                                                     Philip H. Knight
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer
 
                                                  Principal Financial and
                                                    Accounting Officer:
 
Date: August 29, 1995                            /s/ Robert S. Falcone
                                          By _______________________________ 

                                                     Robert S. Falcone 
                                            Vice President and Chief Financial 
                                                          Officer 
 
                                        S-1 

 
 
DIRECTORS: 
 
Date: August 29, 1995                          
                                          By /s/ William J. Bowerman 
                                                    William J. Bowerman
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                        
                                          By /s/ Jill K. Conway
                                                      Jill K. Conway
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                            
                                          By /s/ Ralph D. DeNunzio 
                                                     Ralph D. DeNunzio
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                           
                                          By /s/ Richard K. Donahue 
                                                    Richard K. Donahue
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                            
                                          By /s/ Delbert J. Hayes 
                                                     Delbert J. Hayes
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                           
                                          By /s/ Douglas G. Houser 
                                                     Douglas G. Houser
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                             
                                          By /s/ John E. Jaqua 
                                                       John E. Jaqua
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                       
                                          By Ralph A. Pfeiffer, Jr. 
                                                  Ralph A. Pfeiffer, Jr.
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                          
                                          By /s/ Charles W. Robinson 
                                                    Charles W. Robinson
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1995                         
                                          By /s/ John R. Thompson, Jr. 
                                                   John R. Thompson, Jr.
                                                         Director
 
                                         S-2 
 
 


