
10-K
FORM 10-K

 
 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
                               ---------------- 
                                   FORM 10-K 
(MARK ONE) 
 
[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED] 
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 1996 
 
                                       OR 
 
[_]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] 
                      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM  TO 
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-10635 
                               ---------------- 
                                   NIKE, INC. 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
                 OREGON                                93-0584541 
    (State or other jurisdiction of        (IRS Employer Identification No.) 
             incorporation) 
                               ONE BOWERMAN DRIVE 
                          BEAVERTON, OREGON 97005-6453 
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (503) 671-6453 
                               ---------------- 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT: 
         (Title of each class)              (Name of each exchange on which 
          Class B Common Stock                        registered) 
                                                New York Stock Exchange 
                                                 Pacific Stock Exchange 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: 
                                      None 
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such 
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [  ] 
 
  As of July 22, 1996, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class A 
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $232,368,900 and the 
aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class B Common Stock held by 
nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $9,097,477,000. 
 
  As of July 22, 1996, the number of shares of the Registrant's Class A Common 
Stock outstanding was 51,119,985 and the number of shares of the Registrant's 
Class B Common Stock outstanding was 92,676,298
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
 
  Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 12, 1996 for the annual 
meeting of shareholders to be held on September 16, 1996 are incorporated by 
reference into Part III of this Report.
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and 
will not be contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive 
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ] 
 
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                                   NIKE, INC. 
 
                                 ANNUAL REPORT 
                                  ON FORM 10-K 
 
                                
 
 
                                     PART I 
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon. 
As used herein, the terms "NIKE" and the "Company" refer to NIKE, Inc. and 
its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates 
otherwise.
 
  The Company's principal business activity involves the design, development 
and worldwide marketing of high quality footwear, apparel, and accessory 
products. The Company sells its products to approximately 18,000 retail 
accounts in the United States and through a mix of independent distributors, 
licensees and subsidiaries in approximately 110 countries around the world.
Virtually all of the Company's products are manufactured by independent 
contractors. Most footwear products are produced outside the United States, 
while apparel products are produced both in the United States and abroad.
 
PRODUCTS 
 
  NIKE's athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific 
athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for 
casual or leisure purposes. The Company places considerable emphasis on high 
quality construction and innovative design. Basketball, cross-training, 
running, and children's shoes are currently the top-selling product categories 
and are expected to continue to lead in product sales in the near future. 
However, the Company also markets shoes designed for outdoor activities, 
tennis, golf, soccer, baseball, football, bicycling, volleyball, 
wrestling, cheerleading, aquatic activities and other athletic and 
recreational uses.
 
  The Company sells active sports apparel covering each of the above 
categories, as well as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and 
accessories are designed to complement the Company's athletic footwear 
products, feature the same trademarks and are sold through the same marketing 
and distribution channels. The Company often markets footwear, apparel and 
accessories in "collections" of similar design or for specific purposes. 
 
  The Company sells a line of dress and casual footwear and 
accessories for men, women and children under the brand name Cole Haan(R) 
through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan Holdings Incorporated. 
The Company markets a line of headwear with licensed team logos under 
the brand name "Sports Specialties", through its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Sports Specialties Corporation.  The Company also sells 
small amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through 
its wholly-owned subsidiary, Tetra Plastics, Inc.
 
  In February 1995 the Company acquired Bauer Inc., formerly Canstar Sports 
Inc., the world's largest hockey equipment manufacturer.  Bauer manufactures 
and distributes ice skates, skate blades, in-line roller skates, protective 
gear, hockey sticks, and hockey jerseys and accessories under the Bauer(R) 
brand name.  Bauer also offers a full selection of products for 
street, roller and field hockey.  
 
 
SALES AND MARKETING
 
  The table below sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
United States and international (non-U.S.) revenues for the last three 
fiscal years.
 
 
 
  Financial information about United States and international operations 
appears in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements on page 31. 
 
  The Company experiences moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume 
during the year. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably 
from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic 
demand for particular types of footwear and apparel. 
 
  Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of 
various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect 
the demand for the Company's products and, consequently, the types of 
products the Company offers. The Company must therefore respond 
to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by 
adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, 
styles, and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences 
through agressive marketing. 
 
UNITED STATES MARKET 
 
  During fiscal 1996, sales to the Company's approximately 18,000 
retail accounts in the United States accounted for approximately 64  
percent of total revenues. The domestic retail account base includes a mix 
of department stores, footwear stores, sporting goods stores, skating, 
tennis and golf shops, and other retail accounts. During fiscal year 
1996, NIKE's three largest customers accounted for approximately 24 
percent of sales in the United States.  
 
  NIKE makes substantial use of its innovative "futures" ordering program, 
which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery 
with the guarantee that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within 
a set time period at a fixed price. In fiscal year 1996, 88 percent of the 
Company's domestic footwear shipments (excluding Cole Haan(R) and Bauer (R)) 
were made under the futures program, compared to 88 percent in fiscal 1995 and 
81 percent in fiscal 1994.  The Company is implementing a similar futures 
program for apparel. 
 
  The Company utilizes 18 NIKE sales offices for the solicitation 
of sales in the United States. The Company also utilizes 10 independent 
sales representatives for the sale of specialty products, such as golf, 
cycling, water sports and outdoor wear. In addition, the Company 
operates 78 wholly-owned retail outlets, 33 of which carry primarily 
B-grade and close-out merchandise, 31 of which are Cole Haan(R) stores, 5 
of which are high-profile NIKETOWN stores designed to showcase the 
Company's products, and 5 of which are employee-only stores. 
 
  The Company's domestic distribution centers for footwear are located in 
Beaverton, Oregon, Wilsonville, Oregon, Memphis, Tennessee, Greenland, New 
Hampshire, and Yarmouth, Maine. Apparel products are shipped from the Memphis 
distribution center and from Greenville, North Carolina.  Cole Haan footwear 
and Bauer Inc. products are distributed primarily from Greenland, New 
Hampshire, and Sports Specialties headwear is shipped from Irvine, California. 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS 
 
  The Company currently markets its products in approximately 110 countries 
outside of the United States through independent distributors, licensees, 
subsidiaries and branch offices. NIKE operates 28 distribution centers in 
Europe, Asia, Canada, Latin America, and Australia, and also distributes 
through independent distributors and licensees.  The Company estimates that 
its products are sold through approximately 34,000 retail accounts outside 
the United States.  International (non-U.S.) sales accounted for 36 percent 
of total revenues in fiscal 1996, compared to 37 percent in fiscal 1995 and 
36 percent in fiscal 1994.  The Company has a futures ordering program for 
European retailers similar to the United States futures program described 
above.  Outside of the United States, NIKE's three largest customers 
accounted for approximately 6 percent of international sales. 
 
  International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in 
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, 
Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, The Netherlands, Norway, Peoples 
Republic of China, The Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Taiwan, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam.  The Company operates 
12 wholly-owned retail outlets outside the United States, two of which are 
employee-only stores.
 
SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS
 
  Foot Locker, a chain of retail stores specializing in athletic footwear and 
apparel, accounted for approximately 12 percent of global net sales of NIKE 
brand products during fiscal 1996. No other customer accounted for 10 percent 
or more of net sales during fiscal 1996. 
 
ORDERS 
 
  As of May 31, 1996, the Company's worldwide orders for athletic footwear 
and apparel totaled $3.9 billion, compared to $2.5 billion as of 
May 31, 1995.  Such orders are scheduled for delivery from June through 
November of 1996.  Based upon historical data, the Company expects that 
approximately 95 percent of these orders will be filled in that time period, 
although the orders may be cancelable. 
 
PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  The Company believes that its research and development efforts are a 
key factor in its past and future success. Technical innovation in the 
design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment receive continued 
emphasis as NIKE strives to produce products that reduce or eliminate 
injury, aid athletic performance and maximize comfort. 
 
  In addition to its own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, 
exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, 
NIKE also utilizes research committees and advisory boards made up of 
athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists 
and other experts who consult with the Company and review designs, materials 
and concepts for product improvement.  Employee athletes wear-test and 
evaluate products during the design and development process. 
 
  In fiscal 1996, NIKE spent approximately $46.8 million on product research, 
development and evaluation, compared to $28.8 million in 1995, and $24.6 
million in 1994. 
 
MANUFACTURING 
 
  In fiscal 1996, approximately 56 percent of the Company's total apparel 
production for sale to the United States market was manufactured in the 
United States by independent contract manufacturers, most of which are 
located in the southern states. The remainder was manufactured by 
independent contractors in Asia and South America, most of which are 
located in Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, The Philippines, 
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Thailand.  Substantially all of NIKE's 
apparel production for sale to the international market was manufactured 
outside the U.S. 
 
 
  Virtually all of the Company's footwear (exclusive of Cole Haan(R)) 
is produced outside of the United States. In fiscal 1996, contract suppliers 
in Indonesia, the People's Republic of China, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, 
and Vietnam accounted for approximately 38 percent, 34 percent, 11 percent, 
5 percent, 10 percent, and 2 percent, respectively, of total NIKE brand 
footwear production. The Company also has manufacturing agreements 
with independent factories in Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Mexico. 
The largest single supplier accounted for approximately 9 percent of 
total 1996 footwear production. 
 
  The principal materials used in the Company's footwear products are 
natural and synthetic rubber, vinyl and plastic compounds, foam cushioning 
materials, nylon, leather, canvas, and a polyurethane film used to make 
AIR-SOLE(R) cushioning components. NIKE and its contractors and suppliers 
buy raw materials in bulk. Most raw materials are available in the 
countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE has thus far experienced 
little difficulty in satisfying its raw material requirements. Tetra 
Plastics, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, is the Company's sole 
supplier of the material from which the AIR-SOLE(R) cushioning components 
used in footwear are made. 
 
  The Company's international operations are subject to the usual risks 
of doing business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, 
export duties, quotas, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in 
certain parts of the world, political instability. See "Trade Legislation" 
below. NIKE has not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, 
but cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring. The 
Company believes that it has the ability to develop, over a period of 
time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained 
from its present suppliers outside of the United States. If events 
prevented the Company from acquiring products from its suppliers in a 
particular country, the Company's footwear operations could be 
temporarily disrupted and the Company could experience an adverse financial 
impact. However, the Company believes that it could eliminate any such 
disruption within a period of no more than 12 months, and that any adverse 
impact would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. The Company believes that 
its principal competitors are subject to similar risks.
 
All Company products manufactured overseas and imported into the United 
States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service.
Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review 
by the Customs Service. The Company is unable to predict whether additional 
United States customs duties, quotas or other restrictions may be imposed on 
the importation of its products in the future. The enactment of any such 
duties, quotas or restrictions could result in increases in the cost of such 
products generally and might adversely affect the sales or profitability of 
the Company and the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. 
 
  Since 1972, Nissho Iwai American Corporation ("NIAC"), a subsidiary of 
Nissho Iwai Corporation, a large Japanese trading company, has performed 
significant financing and export-import services for the Company. The 
Company purchases through NIAC substantially all of the athletic footwear 
and apparel it acquires from overseas suppliers. The Company's agreements 
with NIAC extend through 2000, and the Company expects that the relationship 
will be continued beyond that date.
 
TRADE LEGISLATION 
 
 In May 1996, President Clinton extended to June 1997, "most favored nation" 
(MFN), non-discriminatory trading status to the People's Republic of China 
(China).  Under U.S. law, MFN status for China is extended annually.  
The United States has extended MFN status to China each year since 1980.  
China is a material source of footwear production for the Company.  
A revocation of MFN status would result in a substantial increase in 
tariff rates on goods imported from China, and, therefore could adversely 
affect the Company's operations.  While the United States continues to 
have foreign policy as well as human rights concerns with China, the Clinton 
Administration and the Congress have opposed using China's MFN status as 
a means of addressing these concerns. However, even if NIKE's Chinese 
sources were affected by a change in China's MFN status, the Company 
believes that the impact of such change would not have a long term, 
material adverse impact on the Company's business. 

 
 
Certain countries within the European Community have for some time main- 
tained quotas restricting the importation of footwear manufactured in 
China.  With respect to such quotas, see the discussion in Item 7 below. 
 
In 1994, the United States, Mexico, and Canada implemented the North America 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).  Benefits to the Company include a phased 
elimination of duties on footwear and apparel produced and imported from 
Mexico, and the implementation and enforcement of new Mexican laws pro- 
tecting the intellectual property rights of United States companies doing 
business in Mexico.  While the Company currently purchases no apparel 
and a portion of its Cole Haan(R) shoes from Mexico, NAFTA may permit 
NIKE to economically source some products from Mexico. 
 
In April 1994, the 125 member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade (GATT), including the United States, signed a new pact to govern 
world trade.  The new agreement, which was approved by Congress in December 
1995 and became effective January 1, 1995 for most countries, should provide 
better international market access opportunities for U.S. goods and services. 
The agreement, among other things, significantly cuts global tariffs on many 
products, reduces or eliminates numerous non-tariff measures (such as quotas 
and discriminatory product standards), establishes stronger rules on the 
imposition of duties relating to the anti-dumping and subsidies codes, 
provides greater protection for intellectual property rights, and creates a 
strengthened dispute settlement procedure.  NIKE believes that the 
new agreement, once fully implemented by all countries, will reduce many 
of the obstacles to international trade and benefit the Company. 
 
In July 1995, President Clinton officially restored diplomatic relations 
between the United States and Vietnam. The President's action is a step 
toward restoration of full trade relations including the United 
States granting non-discriminatory MFN trading status to Vietnam which 
would result in lower tariffs between the two countries. The Company 
is currently sourcing some footwear products from factories in 
Vietnam.  MFN trading status for Vietnam could expand production and 
marketing opportunities for NIKE in Vietnam. 
 
COMPETITION 
 
  The athletic footwear and apparel industry is keenly competitive in 
the United States and on a worldwide basis. NIKE competes internationally 
with an increasing number of specialized athletic shoe companies, apparel 
companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic shoes 
and apparel, including Reebok, Adidas and others.  The intense competition 
and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the 
athletic footwear and apparel markets constitute significant risk factors in 
the Company's operations.
 
  NIKE is the largest supplier of athletic footwear in the world. Perfor- 
mance and reliability of shoes and apparel, new product development, price, 
product identity through marketing and promotion, and customer support 
and service are important aspects of competition in the athletic footwear 
and apparel industry. The Company believes that it is competitive in all 
of these areas.
 
TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS 
 
  NIKE utilizes trademarks on nearly all of its products and believes that
having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important 
factor in creating a market for its goods, in identifying the Company and 
in distinguishing its goods from the goods of others. The Company considers 
its NIKE(R) and Swoosh(R) design trademarks to be among its most valuable 
assets and has registered these trademarks in over 100 countries. In 
addition, the Company owns other trademarks which it utilizes in marketing 
its products. NIKE continues to vigorously protect its trademarks against 
infringement. 
 
 
  The Company has an exclusive, worldwide license to make and sell footwear 
using patented "Air" technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas 
encapsulated in polyurethane.  Some of the early NIKE Air patents will expire 
in 1997, enabling competitors to use certain types of NIKE Air technology.  
The Company also has a number of patents covering components and features 
used in various athletic and leisure shoes. Management believes that NIKE's 
success depends upon skills in design, research and development, production 
and marketing rather than upon its patent position.  However, it has 
followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign 
patents on inventions, designs and improvements that it deems valuable. 
 
EMPLOYEES 
 
  The Company had approximately 17,200 employees at May 31, 1996. 
Management considers its relationship with its employees to be excellent. 
With the exception of Bauer Inc., the Company's employees are not 
represented by a union.  Of Bauer's North American employees, approximately 
50 percent or fewer than 1,200, are covered by four union collective 
bargaining agreements with four separate bargaining units, and all of 
Bauer's approximately 200 employees in Italy are covered by one of two 
union collective bargaining agreements.  The collective bargaining agreements 
expire on various dates in 1996 and 1997.  There has never been a material 
interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
 
  The executive officers of the Company as of July 31, 1996 are as follows: 
 
  Philip H. Knight, Chief Executive Officer--Mr. Knight, 58, a director 
since 1968, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of NIKE. Mr. Knight is a co-founder of the Company and, except 
for the period from June 1983 through September 1984, served as its 
President from 1968 to 1990. Prior to 1968, Mr. Knight was a certified 
public accountant with Price Waterhouse LLP and Coopers & Lybrand and was an 
Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University. 
 
  Harry C. Carsh, Vice President and General Manager, Sports and 
Fitness--Mr. Carsh, 57, joined the Company in 1977, and was elected 
Vice President in 1984 and appointed General Manager in 1993. Mr. Carsh 
has held executive positions in accounting, manufacturing and European 
marketing. He has served as Vice President in charge of the International 
Division, Vice President of Operations, and is currently Vice President and 
General Manager, Sports and Fitness. Prior to joining the Company, he 
served for four years as Vice President of Finance for Lancet Medical 
Industries. Mr. Carsh is a certified public accountant. 
 
  Thomas E. Clarke, President and Chief Operating Officer--Dr.Clarke, 45, 
a director since 1994, joined the Company in 1980 . Dr. Clarke has held 
various positions with the Company, primarily in research, design, 
development and marketing. He was appointed divisional vice president in 
charge of marketing in 1987. He was elected Vice President in 1989 and 
appointed General Manager in 1990. Dr. Clarke holds a Doctorate degree in 
biomechanics. 
 
  Gary DeStefano, Vice President, Sales--Mr. DeStefano, 39, has been 
employed by the Company since 1982, with primary responsibilities in 
sales and customer service. Mr. DeStefano was appointed Director of 
Domestic Sales in 1990, divisional Vice President in charge of domestic 
sales in 1992, and Vice President of Sales in June 1996.
 
  Elizabeth G. Dolan, Vice President, Corporate Communications and 
Marketing--Ms. Dolan, 39, has been employed by the Company since 1988, 
when she joined the Company as Director of Public Relations.  Ms. Dolan 
was appointed Vice President of Corporate Communications in 1990 and was 
elected Vice President of Marketing in 1994.  Prior to joining the Company, 
Ms. Dolan was Director of Public Relations at Cartier, Inc. in New York. 
 
 
 
  Robert S. Falcone, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer--Mr. 
Falcone, 49, has been employed by the Company since 1990. Mr. Falcone joined 
the Company as Director of Acquisitions. From May, 1991 through November, 
1991, he also served as interim Director of Human Resources, and he was 
elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1992. Prior to 
joining the Company, Mr. Falcone worked for 21 years as a certified public 
accountant for Price Waterhouse LLP. 
 
  Stephen D. Gomez, Vice President, Apparel - Mr. Gomez, 41 has been 
employed by the Company since 1981, with primary responsibilities in 
apparel.  He was appointed General Manager of European Apparel in 1987, 
and Apparel Marketing Director in 1989.  Mr. Gomez was appointed 
divisional Vice President in charge of Appparel in 1992, and was 
elected Vicce President of Apparel in June 1996. 
 
  David Kottkamp, Vice President and General Manager, International 
Division--Mr. Kottkamp, 54, has been employed by the Company since 1978. 
He has held positions in the areas of apparel, Canadian operations and 
European operations. He was appointed divisional Vice President in 1988, 
and General Manager in 1992.
 
  Mark G. Parker, Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Product 
Marketing--Mr. Parker, 40, has been employed by the Company since 1979 
with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development. 
Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of development 
in 1987, elected Vice President in 1989, and appointed General Manager in 1993.
 
Lindsay D. Stewart, Vice President Legal and Corporate Affairs and 
Assistant Secretary--Mr. Stewart, 49, joined the Company as Assistant 
Corporate Counsel in 1981. Mr. Stewart became Corporate Counsel in 1983. 
He was elected Vice President and General Counsel in 1991. Prior to joining 
the Company, Mr. Stewart was in private practice and an attorney for 
Georgia-Pacific Corporation. 
 
  David B. Taylor, Vice President--Mr. Taylor, 41, has been employed by 
the Company since 1977, with primary responsibilities in production. Mr. 
Taylor was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of production in 
1988, and was elected Vice President in 1989. 
 
 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 
  Following is a summary of principal properties owned or leased by the 
Company. The Company's leases expire at various dates throughout the 
year 2009. 
 
U.S. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:
 
  Beaverton, Oregon (13 locations)--       SALES OFFICES AND SHOWROOMS: 
  one owned and 12 leased 
                                           United States (22 locations)--2 
  Wilsonville, Oregon--owned               owned and 20 leased 
  Greenland, New Hampshire (2 locations)   Toronto, Ontario--leased
  -- 1 owned and 1 leased                  Europe (20 locations)--1 owned 
  Memphis, Tennessee (2 locations)-          and 19 leased 
  - 1 owned and 1 leased                   Asia and Australia (10 locations) 
  Yarmouth, Maine--owned                     --leased 
  Charlotte, North Carolina--leased        Latin America (3 locations)--leased 
  Irvine, California--leased               Africa (2 locations)--leased 
 
INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:      DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES: 
  Mississauga, Ontario--leased             Greenland, New Hampshire--owned 
  Thornhill, Ontario--leased               Wilsonville, Oregon (2 locations)--1
  Montreal, Quebec--leased                   owned and 1 leased
  Europe (14 locations)--leased            Memphis, Tennessee (2 locations)--1 
  Asia and Australia (9 locations)           owned and 1 leased 
    --leased                               Yarmouth, Maine--owned 
  Latin America (3 locations)--leased      Irvine, California -- leased 
                                           Canada (8 locations)--2 owned and
                                             6 leased
                                           Latin America (4 locations)--leased 
                                           Europe (9 locations)--3 owned and 
                                             6 leased 
                                           Asia and Australia (16 locations) 
                                             --leased 
INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTION OFFICES:      
  Asia (9 locations)--leased 
  South America (3 locations)-- 
  leased 
  Florence, Italy--leased
 
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES:          
  Beaverton, Oregon (2 locations)    
    --leased                         
  Greenville, North Carolina         
    (2 locations)--leased 
  Livermore Falls, Maine--owned
  Sanford, Maine--owned 
  Cambridge, Ontario (2 locations) 
    --1 owned and 1 leased 
  Toronto, Ontario--leased
  Vars, Ontario--leased 
  Granby, Quebec--leased 
  St. Jerome, Quebec--leased 
  Montebelluna, Italy--owned 
  Zdar nad Sazavou, Czech 
    Republic--owned 
  Earth City, Missouri--leased 
  Chesterfield, Missouri--leased 
  
RETAIL OUTLETS: 
  United States (78 locations)--75 leased and 3 owned 
  Toronto, Ontario--leased 
  Europe (7 locations)--leased 
  Asia and Australia (4 locations)--leased 
 
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
  There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary 
routine litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the 
Company is a party or of which any of its property is the subject. 
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 
 
  No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the 1996 fiscal 
year to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or 
otherwise. 
 
 
                                    PART II 
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
MATTERS
 
  The Company's Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NKE. 
At July 22, 1996 there were 8,225 holders of record of the Company's 
Class B Common Stock and 31 holders of record of the Company's Class A 
Common Stock. These figures do not include beneficial owners who hold 
shares in nominee name.  The Class A Common Stock is not publicly 
traded but each share is convertible upon request of the holder into 
one share of Class B Common Stock.
 
  Reference is made to the table entitled "Selected Quarterly Financial 
Data" in Item 6, which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range 
of high and low closing sales prices on the New York Stock Exchange, as 
adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split that became effective in 
October of 1990, and the 2-for-1 stock split that became effective in 
October of 1995.  Such table also sets forth the amount and frequency of all 
cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock for the 1995 and 1996 
fiscal years.
 
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
 






 


 


All per common share data has been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 
stock splits paid October 30, 1995 and October 5, 1990.  The Company's 
Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock 
Exchanges and trades under the symbol NKE.  At May 31, 1996, there were 
approximately 77,000 shareholders.  Years 1993 and prior have been re- 
stated to reflect the implementation of Statement and Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 109 - Accounting for Income Taxes (see Notes 1 and 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).









*Quarterly figures have been adjusted to reflect the Company's operations 
reported on a same-month basis for certain international entities which 
were previously consolidated using an April 30 year end.  See further 
discussion in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 

 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
 
 
Highlights 
 
Fiscal year 1996 was a record year for the Company and demonstrated the 
continuing strength of the NIKE brand on a global scale: 

- - Net income increased to $553.2 million, an increase of 38.4% over the 
previous year's record $399.7 million. 
 
 - Revenues increased 35.9% to a record and industry leading $6.5 billion. 
Fourth quarter revenues reached $1.9 billion, an increase of 36% over the 
prior year and 19% over the previous record quarter, which was established 
in the first quarter of this fiscal year. 
 - Gross margins remained strong at 39.6% of revenues, compared with the 
previous year's NIKE record of 39.8%. 
 - Selling and administrative costs decreased 0.8% as a percent of revenues 
from the previous year.  
 
 - The strength of the brand continues with advance and futures orders 
scheduled for delivery over the next six months up a record 55% over the 
same period last year.*
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
Significant growth in worldwide revenues and improved leverage of selling and 
administrative costs were the primary factors contributing to record earnings 
for fiscal year 1996 as compared to 1995.  Fiscal 1995 also experienced record 
results, driven primarily by increased revenues, improved gross margins, and a 
reduced percentage of revenues in selling and administrative costs, compared 
with fiscal year 1994.  Revenues and net income have now increased nine and 
seven consecutive quarters, respectively.  During fiscal 1996, the Company 
continued to gain market share in United States footwear, in spite of a rather 
mature market.  Industry sources expected only moderate market growth rates of 
5 to 7%.   U.S. apparel experienced significant revenue growth during a 
sluggish period for the industry and marketplace.  Outside the U.S., the 
markets in which the Company operates are less mature and offer tremendous 
potential for growth.*  The Company continues to invest in infrastructure and 
local marketing to capitalize on these opportunities and balance the strength 
of the global NIKE brand.  Through its aggressive worldwide marketing efforts 
and global infrastructure spending, the Company is positioning itself to 
continue to expand markets and gain market share on a worldwide basis.* 
 
The Company experienced revenue growth in fiscal 1996 in all breakout 
categories (see chart).  The most significant increase in absolute dollars was 
U.S. footwear, which grew $463.2 million, or 20.1%, as a result of 19% more 
pairs shipped and a 0.9% increase in average selling price per pair.  Men's 
basketball, women's fitness and men's training comprise approximately half of 
the U.S. footwear category in terms of total revenues, and individually 
increased 7%, 29% and 25%, respectively, over the prior year.  The men's 
running and kids' categories increased significantly over the prior year, 
improving 28% and 26%, respectively.  U.S. apparel increased $418.6 million, 
or 99%, experiencing growth in all categories and demonstrating the strength 
of the NIKE brand.  International (non-U.S.) brand revenues also increased 
significantly, growing $616.7 million, or 35.9%, as a result of increases of 
$438.0 million (35.2%) and $178.7 million (37.8%) in footwear and apparel, 
respectively, over the prior year.  International revenues were increased 1.2% 
as a result of the foreign currency translation impact.  All NIKE regions 
outside the U.S. experienced revenue increases greater than 30%.  Europe 
increased 33%, Asia Pacific, 41%, and the Americas, 35%.  The most significant 
increases were in Japan, Italy, United Kingdom, Korea and Canada.  Other 
brands  which include Cole Haan(R), Tetra Plastics, Inc., Sports Specialties 
Corp., and Bauer Inc. (formerly Canstar Sports Inc.)  increased $211.3 
million, or 68%, over the prior year. Bauer, which was acquired at the end of 
the Company's third quarter of the prior year, contributed $173.7 million of 
the increase. 
 
 
During fiscal 1995, the Company experienced revenue growth over 1994 in all 
categories, with the most significant increase in U.S. footwear, which grew 
$440.5 million, or 24%, as a result of 22% more pairs shipped at a 2% increase 
in average selling price per pair.  Men's basketball continued to dominate the 
category with revenues up 12% for the year.  Women's fitness grew 26%, women's 
sport was up 45% and outdoor increased 48% over 1994.  International brand 
revenues also increased significantly, growing $360 million, or 27%, as a 
result of a $246.1 million (25%) increase in footwear revenues and a $113.9 
million (32%) increase in apparel.  International revenues were increased 7% 
as a result of the foreign currency translation impact.  While European 
revenues remained relatively constant, in spite of decreases in France and 
Germany, the Asia Pacific and Americas regions were up substantially with 81% 
and 61% increases, respectively.  Asia Pacific growth was primarily a result 
of Japan and Korea, for which NIKE acquired the distribution operations in 
fiscal 1995, while the Americas region was up primarily as a result of 
Argentina, also acquired in fiscal 1995, and improved revenues in Canada.  
U.S. apparel rebounded strongly in 1995, up $85.4 million (25%), and other 
brands grew $85.3 million, primarily due to the acquisition of Bauer. 
 
The breakdown of revenues follows: 
(in thousands) 
 
 
 
Gross margins were 39.6% in fiscal 1996 compared to 39.8% in 1995 and 39.3% in 
1994.  Gross margins remained strong in fiscal 1996 and, similar to 1995, can 
be attributed to the high demand for NIKE products, internally controlled 
close-out distribution, a solid inventory position along with strong inventory 
management, and the Company's innovative advance futures order program.  The 
slight reduction in gross margins compared with 1995 was primarily driven by 
increased costs of air freight to meet delivery dates on increasing customer 
orders, and increased footwear product costs not fully recovered through the 
selling price.  These higher expenses were partially offset by improved 
apparel margins due to significant increases in revenues and a reduction in 
close-outs as a percentage of total revenues.  
 
Total selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues 
decreased to 24.6% as compared to 25.4% in 1995 and 25.7% in 1994.  The 
reduction can be attributed primarily to the significant increase in 
revenues. The increase in absolute dollars was $378.9 million, or 31%.  U.S. 
operations increased $160.5 million and international increased $176.3 
million, largely a result of increased sales and marketing spending as well as 
infrastructure to support growth outside the U.S.  Bauer accounted for $33 
million of the increase.  The increase of $235.7 million in 1995 over 1994 was 
attributed to the acquisition of formerly independent international operations 
and planned growth in international infrastructure. The Company intends to 
continue to invest in growth opportunities and worldwide marketing and 
advertising in order to ensure the successful sell-through of the high level 
of orders discussed below.* 
 
Interest expense increased $15.3 million due primarily to the higher levels of 
short term borrowings needed to fund current operations.  In 1995, average 
cash and equivalents were higher, as available cash was used to fund the 
acquisition of Bauer.  Interest expense during 1995 increased $9 million over 
1994 as a result of significant operational and investment cash needs financed 
with short term borrowings, lower net cash position compared with 1994, and 
the reduction of long-term debt with the repayment of $50 million in long-term 
notes which occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1994. 
 
 
 
Other income/expense rose $25 million in expense over 1995, primarily as a 
result of increased goodwill amortization from the acquisition of Bauer, a 
reduction in interest income due to a net lower cash position compared with 
the prior year, and increased profit share expense due to increased earnings.  
These were partially offset by the absence of non-recurring specific 
obligations which occurred in the prior year related to the shutdown of 
certain facilities in conjunction with the consolidation of European 
warehouses.  In the prior year, other income/expense rose $3.5 million in 
expense over 1994, primarily as a result of increased goodwill amortization 
and additional non-recurring charges discussed above, offset partially by 
increased interest income resulting from higher interest rates and excess cash 
in the first half of the year. 
 
The fiscal 1996 effective tax rate remained constant with 1995 at 38.5%, and 
was 39.1% in 1994.  In 1996, the rate was affected by a non-recurring state 
tax credit offset by increased taxes on foreign earnings.  The decrease in 
1995 compared with 1994 was primarily the result of lower taxes provided on 
non-U.S. earnings.  Fiscal 1994's effective tax rate increased due to the U.S. 
federal tax increase of 1%, which was applied retroactively, and the Company's 
subsequent implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 
109, which required the application of the 1% increase to deferred taxes.  
This increase was partially offset by the Company's decision to permanently 
reinvest more foreign earnings overseas, reducing tax expense by the U.S. tax 
previously recognized.  The Company anticipates the effective tax rate for 
fiscal 1997 to approximate the rate for 1996.* 
 
Worldwide futures and advance orders for NIKE brand athletic footwear and 
apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November, 1996, were 
approximately $3.9 billion, 55% higher than such orders booked in the 
comparable period of the prior year.*  These orders and the percentage growth 
in these orders are not necessarily indicative of the growth in revenues which 
the Company will experience for the subsequent periods.  This is because the 
mix of advance futures and "at once" orders has shifted significantly toward 
futures orders as the NIKE brand became more established in all areas, 
specifically in the U.S. apparel business and in international regions.  The 
mix of advance orders to "at once" orders will continue to vary as the U.S. 
apparel business and international operations continue to account for a 
greater percentage of total revenues and place a greater emphasis on futures 
programs.*  Finally, exchange rates can cause differences in the comparisons. 
 
Since the Company operates globally, it is exposed to market risks from 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  In order to minimize the effect 
of fluctuations on the Company's foreign currency transactions, the Company 
uses highly liquid foreign currency spot, forward and purchased options with 
high credit quality financial institutions.*  The Company only transacts 
foreign exchange contracts to hedge underlying economic exposures and does not 
transact in derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.*  Where possible, 
the Company nets its foreign exchange exposures to take advantage of natural 
offsets that occur in the normal course of business.*  Firmly committed 
transactions and the related receivables and payables may be hedged with 
forward exchange contracts or purchased options.*  Anticipated, but not yet 
firmly committed transactions, may be hedged through the use of purchased 
options.*  Additional information concerning the Company's hedging activities 
is presented in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
Generally, a weaker U.S. dollar in comparison to foreign currencies, will 
result in higher translation of operating results in these financial 
statements than would a stronger U.S. dollar.  The net effect of translations 
on the 1996 results of operations was minimal while its effect on 1995 was 
favorable.  
 
The Company's international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing 
business abroad, such as the imposition of import quotas or anti-dumping 
duties.*  In February, 1995, the EU Commission, at the request of the European 
footwear manufacturers, initiated two anti-dumping investigations covering 
certain footwear imported from the People's Republic of China (the "PRC"), 
Indonesia and Thailand.  The investigations expressly exclude certain types of 
sports footwear (as defined in the Notices of Initiation of Anti-Dumping 
Proceedings).  The Company believes that most of its footwear sourced in the 
target countries for sale in the EU fits within these exclusions and, 
therefore, that it will not be materially affected by the results of these 
anti-dumping investigations.*  However, the above mentioned exclusions are 
subject to interpretation and/or amendment by the EU customs authorities 
(e.g., as to the meaning of terms such as "footwear designed for a sporting 
activity"). 
 
As of the end of the 1996 fiscal year, the Company is unable to estimate the 
likelihood that the EU Commission will ultimately impose anti-dumping duties 
on any of the footwear covered by the investigations, or the amount of any 
such duties.  However, the most recent information obtained by the Company 
concerning this matter suggests that provisional anti-dumping measures will 
probably be imposed by late 1996 and that, in the case of China and Indonesia, 
these may entail the imposition of substantial duties. 
 
In the event that any of the Company's footwear were deemed to not be covered 
by the above mentioned exclusions and hence, were affected by such duties, the 
Company could consider, in addition to its possible legal remedies, shifting 
the production of such footwear to other countries in order to maintain 
competitive pricing.*  The Company believes that it is prepared to deal 
effectively with any such anti-dumping measures that may arise and that any 
adverse impact would be of a short-term nature.*  The Company continues to 
closely monitor international trade restrictions and to adopt its multi-
country sourcing strategy and contingency plans. The Company believes that its 
major competitors would be similarly impacted by any such restrictions.*  
 
 
 
As discussed further in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
beginning in fiscal year 1997, the Company will eliminate the one month lag in 
reporting of certain international operations, in order to coincide with the 
consolidated fiscal year end.  This change will not have a material effect on 
the annual results of operations, however, quarterly results will change as 
certain reporting periods will shift one month.*  The Selected Quarterly Data 
section includes adjusted quarterly data as if the change had been in effect 
in fiscal years 1996 and 1995. 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
The Company's financial position remains extremely strong at May 31, 1996.  
Total assets grew over $800 million to approximately $3.9 billion and 
shareholder's equity increased $467 million to approximately $2.4 billion.  
Cash and equivalents increased $46 million (21%).  Working capital increased 
$321 million as a result of higher levels of all current assets, offset by 
increased notes payable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities, primarily 
a result of the increases in operations.  The Company's current ratio 
increased only slightly compared to May 31, 1995. 
 
Inventory levels have increased $301 million since May 31, 1995, primarily due 
to increases in U.S. apparel and international inventories to support the high 
level of futures orders for the next quarter.*  Accounts receivable increased 
$293 million (28%) due to the high level of fourth quarter revenues (36% 
higher than the previous year).  Prepaid expenses have increased $20 million 
primarily due to advance payments relating to the July 1996 summer Olympics. 
 
Net deferred tax assets increased by $73.2 million from $54.9 million at May 
31, 1995 to $128.1 million at May 31, 1996.  The increase is primarily 
attributable to a reduction of $14.9 million of deferred tax liabilities 
associated with undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and increases 
in deferred tax assets related to: foreign loss carry forwards ($19.2 
million), reserves and accrued liabilities ($12.5 million) and deferred 
compensation ($7.4 million).  The change related to undistributed earnings of 
foreign subsidiaries is attributable to a net increase in unremitted foreign 
earnings from subsidiaries in higher taxed jurisdictions.  The increase in 
deferred tax assets related to foreign loss carry forwards is due to tax 
losses in certain individual jurisdictions incurred as a result of initial 
investments required to centralize the Company's European operations.  (See 
Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further breakdown of the 
Company's deferred tax balances.)  Other assets were also increased by 
prepayments on certain long-term endorsement contracts. 
 
Current liabilities increased $360 million, with the most significant 
increases occurring in accounts payable ($157 million) and accrued liabilities 
($135 million).  The increase in accounts payable relates to higher levels of 
operations and inventory purchases.  Accrued liabilities increased due to 
higher levels of employee benefit accruals and other accruals relating to the 
higher level of operations. 
 
Additions to property, plant and equipment for fiscal 1996 were $216 million, 
with the most significant components related to the continued consolidation of 
European footwear warehouses and the expansion of NIKE Town retail locations 
in the U.S.  Additions to property, plant and equipment of $154 million and 
$95 million in fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively, related to the expansion of 
international warehouse facilities to satisfy increased capacity needs, along 
with investments in management information systems and new NIKE retail 
locations.  Anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal 1997 approximate $400 
million, with the primary components consisting of  the expansion of existing 
world headquarters, new NIKE Town retail locations, expanded warehousing in 
the U.S. and other countries and improved information systems.*  Funding is 
expected to be provided by operations, short term borrowing capacity and long-
term debt.*  Additional investing activities in 1995 included the acquisition 
of Bauer and certain international distributors, including Korea. 
 
During fiscal 1994, the Company announced that the Executive Committee of its 
Board of Directors, acting within limits set by the Board, authorized a plan 
to repurchase a maximum of $450 million NIKE Class B Common Stock over a 
period of up to three years. During fiscal 1996, the Board of Directors voted 
to extend the program until July 1, 1999.  Funding has, and is expected to 
continue to, come from operating cash flow in combination with occasional 
short or medium-term borrowings.*  The timing and the amount of shares 
purchased will be dictated by working capital needs and stock market 
conditions.  As of May 31, 1996, the Company had repurchased 5.1 million 
shares at a total cost of $301.7 million. 
 
 
 
Dividends per share of common stock for fiscal 1996 rose $.10 over fiscal 1995 
to $.58 per share.  Dividend declaration in all four quarters has been 
consistent since February 1984.  Based upon current projected earnings and 
cash flow requirements, the Company anticipates continuing a dividend and 
reviewing its amount during the second fiscal quarter board meeting.*  The 
Company's policy continues to target an annual dividend in the range of 15% to 
25% of trailing twelve-month earnings.*  
 
The Company's commercial paper program requires the support of committed and 
uncommitted lines of credit.  There was $0 and $118 million outstanding under 
this program at May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Additionally, no amounts 
were outstanding at May 31, 1996 and 1995, under unsecured multiple option 
credit facilities of $500 million and $300 million, respectively.  See Note 4 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details concerning the 
Company's short-term borrowing.  NIKE's debt-to-equity ratio at May 31, 1996 
was consistent with May 31, 1995 at .6:1, and was .4:1 at May 31, 1994. 
 
Management believes that funds generated by operations, together with 
currently available resources and anticipated long-term debt arrangements, 
will adequately finance anticipated fiscal 1997 expenditures.* 
 
*The marked items are forward-looking statements that involve risks and 
uncertainties detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the 
S.E.C., including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K. 
 

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA 
 
Management of NIKE, Inc. is responsible for the information and 
representations contained in this report.  The financial statements have 
been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles 
we considered appropriate in the circumstances and include some amounts 
based on our best estimates and judgments.  Other financial information 
in this report is consistent with these financial statements. 
 
The Company's accounting systems include controls designed to reasonably 
assure that assets are safeguarded from unauthorized use or disposition 
and which provide for the preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  These systems 
are supplemented by the selection and training of qualified financial 
personnel and an organizational structure providing for appropriate 
segregation of duties. 
 
An Internal Audit department reviews the results of its work with the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, presently consisting of 
three outside directors of the company.  The Audit Committee is 
responsible for recommending to the Board of Directors the appointment 
of the independent accountants and reviews with the independent accountants, 
management and the internal audit staff, the scope and the results of 
the annual examination, the effectiveness of the accounting control system
and other matters relating to the financial affairs of the Company as they 
deem appropriate.  The independent accountants and the internal auditors 
have full access to the Committee, with and without the presence of 
management, to discuss any appropriate matters. 
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS 
 
Portland, Oregon 
July 3, 1996 
To the Board of Directors and 
Shareholders of NIKE, Inc. 
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index 
appearing under Item 14(a)(1) and (2) on page 32 present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of NIKE, Inc. and its 
subsidiaries at May 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of their operations 
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
May 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  
These financial statements are the responsibility of 
the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these 
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that 
our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above. 
 
Price Waterhouse LLP 
 
 
 
 
                                    NIKE, INC.
 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
 
 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are 
an integral part of this statement.
 

 
 
                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
 
                                             NIKE, INC. 
                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 
 
 
  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an 
integral part of this statement. 
 
 
 
                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: 
 
Basis of consolidation: 
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and 
its subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have 
been eliminated.  To facilitate the timely preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements, the accounts of certain international operations have 
been consolidated for fiscal years ending in April.  The consolidated 
financial statements in fiscal 1997 will eliminate the one month lag in 
reporting for these international operations.  The results of operations of 
May 1996 of these entities, which would have previously been reported in 
results of fiscal 1997, will be recorded as an adjustment to beginning 
retained earnings for fiscal 1997. 
 
Recognition of revenues: 
  
Revenues recognized include sales plus fees earned on sales by licensees.
 
Advertising:
 
Advertising production costs are expensed the first time the advertisement is 
run.  Media (TV and print) placement costs are expensed in the month the 
advertising appears.  Total advertising and promotion expenses were 
$642,500,000, $495,000,000 and $373,100,000 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 
1995 and 1994, respectively.  Included in prepaid expenses and other assets 
was $69,300,000 and $24,300,000 at May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, 
relating to prepaid advertising and promotion expenses. 
 
Cash and equivalents: 
 
Cash and equivalents represent cash and short-term, highly liquid investments 
with original maturities three months or less. 
 
Inventory valuation: 
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is determined 
using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S. 
inventories. International inventories are valued on a first-in, first-out 
(FIFO) basis.
 
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation: 
 
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost.  Depreciation for 
financial reporting purposes is determined on a straight-line basis for 
buildings and leasehold improvements and principally on a declining balance 
basis for machinery and equipment, based upon estimated useful lives ranging 
from three to thirty-two years.  
 
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: 
 
At May 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company had patents, trademarks and other 
identifiable intangible assets with a value of $209,586,000 and $209,203,000, 
respectively.  The Company's excess of purchase cost over the fair value of 
net assets of businesses acquired (goodwill) was $327,555,000 and $329,726,000 
at May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. 
 
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are being amortized over their 
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over five to forty years.  
Accumulated amortization was $62,329,000 and $43,022,000 at May 31, 1996 and 
1995, respectively.  Amortization expense, which is included in other 
income/expense, was $21,772,000, $13,176,000 and $8,409,000 for the years 
ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Intangible assets are 
periodically reviewed by the Company for impairments where the fair value is 
less than the carrying value. 
 
 
Other liabilities: 
 
Other liabilities include amounts with settlement dates beyond one year, and 
are primarily composed of long-term deferred endorsement payments of 
$21,674,000 and $26,893,000 at May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Deferred 
payments to endorsers relate to amounts due beyond contract termination, which 
are discounted at various interest rates and accrued over the contract period. 
 
Endorsement contracts:  
 
Accounting for endorsement contracts is based upon specific contract 
provisions.  Generally, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the 
term of the contract after giving recognition to periodic performance 
compliance provisions of the contracts.  Contracts requiring prepayments are 
included in prepaid expenses or other assets depending on the length of the 
contract.  
 
Foreign currency translation: 
 
Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial 
statements into U.S. dollars are included in the currency translation 
adjustment in shareholders' equity.  

Derivatives: 

The Company enters into foreign currency contracts in order to reduce the 
impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations.  Firmly committed 
transactions and the related receivables and payables may be hedged with 
forward exchange contracts or purchased options.  Anticipated, but not yet 
firmly committed, transactions may be hedged through the use of purchased 
options.  Premiums paid on purchased options and any gains are included in 
accrued liabilities and are recognized in earnings when the transaction being 
hedged is recognized.  See Note 14 for further discussion. 
 
Income taxes: 
 
Income taxes are provided currently on financial statement earnings of 
international subsidiaries expected to be repatriated. The Company intends to 
determine annually the amount of undistributed international earnings to 
invest indefinitely in its international operations.  
 
In June 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FAS 109).  The adoption of FAS 109 
changes the Company's method of accounting for income taxes from the deferred 
method (APB 11) to an asset and liability approach.  Previously, the Company 
deferred the past tax effects of timing differences between financial 
reporting and taxable income.  The asset and liability approach requires the 
recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax 
consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax 
bases of other assets and liabilities.  See Note 6 for further discussion.  
 
Net income per common share: 
 
Net income per common share is computed based on the weighted average number 
of common and common equivalent (stock option) shares outstanding for the 
periods reported. 
 
On October 30, 1995, the Company issued additional shares in connection with a 
two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend on 
outstanding Class A and Class B common stock.  The per common share amounts in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been 
adjusted to reflect this stock split. 
 
Management estimates: 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires management to make estimates, including 
estimates relating to assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the 
date of financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses 
during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from these 
estimates. 
 
Reclassifications: 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 1996 
presentation.  These changes had no impact on previously reported results of 
operations or shareholders' equity. 
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - INVENTORIES 
 
 
 
The excess of replacement cost over LIFO cost was $16,023,000 at 
May 31, 1996, and $19,512,000 at May 31, 1995. 
 

NOTE 3 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following:
 
 
 
 
NOTE 4 - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT LINES 
 
Notes payable to banks and interest bearing accounts payable 
to Nissho Iwai American Corporation (NIAC) are summarized below: 
 
 
 
At May 31, 1995, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its $300 
million unsecured multiple option facility with sixteen banks.  On September 
15, 1995, the Company terminated this facility and entered into a new $500 
million unsecured multiple-option facility with eleven banks, which matures on 
October 31, 2000.  This agreement contains optional borrowing alternatives 
consisting of a committed revolving loan facility and a competitive bid 
facility.  The interest rate charged on this agreement is determined by the 
borrowing option and, under the committed revolving loan facility, is either 
the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus .19% or the higher of the Fed 
Funds rate plus .50% or the Prime Rate.  The agreement provides for annual 
fees of .07% of the total commitment.  Under the agreement, the Company must 
maintain among other things certain minimum specified financial ratios with 
which the Company was in compliance at May 31, 1996.  At May 31, 1996, there 
were no outstanding borrowings under this facility. 
 
Ratings for the Company to issue commercial paper, which is required to be 
supported by committed and uncommitted lines of credit, are A1 by Standard and 
Poor's Corporation and P1 by Moody's Investor Service.  At May 31, 1996 there 
were no amounts outstanding and at May 31, 1995 there was $118,609,000 
outstanding under these arrangements. 
 
The Company has outstanding loans at interest rates at various spreads above 
the banks' cost of funds for financing international operations.  Certain of 
these loans can be secured by accounts receivable and inventory.  
 
The Company purchases through Nissho Iwai American Corporation(NIAC) 
substantially all of the athletic footwear and apparel it acquires from non-
U.S. suppliers.  Accounts payable to NIAC are generally due up to 120 days 
after shipment of goods from the foreign port.  Interest on such accounts 
payable accrues at the ninety day LIBOR rate as of the beginning of the month 
of the invoice date, plus .30%.
 

NOTE 5 - LONG-TERM DEBT 
 
Long-term debt includes the following:
(in thousands)
 
May 31                                          1996           1995  
 
10.4% senior secured note                       $  ---         $22,244 
9.43% capital warehouse lease, payable in 
quarterly installments through 2007               7,485          9,078 
Other                                             9,400         11,186 
 
     Total                                       16,885         42,508 
Less current maturities                           7,301         31,943 
 
                                                $ 9,584        $10,565 
 
 
The senior secured note was acquired in connection with the acquisition 
of Bauer and was liquidated subsequent to May 31, 1995.  Amounts of long-term 
maturities in each of the five fiscal years 1997 through 2001 respectively, 
are $7,301,000, $2,407,000, $2,338,000, $863,000 and $800,000.  As of 
June 27, 1996, the Company's Japanese subsidiary borrowed 10.5 billion 
Japanese yen in a private placement (approximately $100 million) with a 
maturity of June 26, 2011.  Interest is paid semi-annually at 4.3%.  The 
agreement provides for early retirement after year ten. 
 
 
 
NOTE 6 - INCOME TAXES: 
 
Income before income taxes and the provision for income 
taxes are as follows:  
 
 
During fiscal 1994 the Company permanently reinvested approximately 
$56,000,000 of its undistributed international earnings in certain 
international subsidiaries. This resulted in a reduction of $12,800,000 
in the 1994 provision for deferred income taxes. 
 
On August 10, 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 was 
signed into law, raising corporate rates 1%. This resulted in an increase 
of approximately $7,200,000 in tax expense, computed as the impact of the 
1% applied retroactively to earnings from January 1, 1993, and also to 
deferred taxes in accordance with FAS 109. 
 
The Company adopted FAS 109 during the first quarter of fiscal 1994. 
The Company has elected to report the cumulative effect of the FAS 109 
adoption as of May  31, 1987. The cumulative effect of $3,207,000 has 
been recorded as a reduction in common shareholder's equity for each of 
the years subsequent to 1987.
 
A benefit has been recognized for foreign loss carry forwards of 
$96,600,000 and $32,700,000 at May 31, 1996 and 1995 respectively, which 
have no expiration.  As of May 31, 1996, the Company has utilized all 
foreign tax credits.
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following: 
 
 

A reconciliation from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to the 
effective income tax rate follows: 
 
 
During 1982, the Company purchased future tax benefits for 
$15,277,000. Tax benefits of $2,697,000 in excess of the purchase 
price have been recognized as of May 31, 1996 and are classified in 
non-current deferred income taxes. 
 
NOTE 7 - REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK 
 
NIAC is the sole owner of the Company's authorized Redeemable Preferred Stock, 
$1 par value, which is redeemable at the option of NIAC at par value 
aggregating $300,000.  A cumulative dividend of $.10 per share is payable 
annually on May 31 and no dividends may be declared or paid on the Common 
Stock of the Company unless dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock have 
been declared and paid in full.  There have been no changes in the Redeemable 
Preferred Stock in the three years ended May 31, 1996.  As the holder of the 
Redeemable Preferred Stock, NIAC does not have general voting rights but does 
have the right to vote as a separate class on the sale of all or substantially 
all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, on merger, 
consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or on the sale or 
assignment of the NIKE trademark for athletic footwear sold in the United 
States. 
 
 
NOTE 8 - COMMON STOCK 
 
The authorized number of shares of Class A Common Stock no par value and Class 
B Common Stock no par value are 110,000,000 and 350,000,000, respectively.  
The Company announced a two-for-one stock split which was effected in the form 
of a 100% stock dividend on outstanding Class A and Class B Common Stock, paid 
October 30, 1995.  Each share of Class A common Stock is convertible into one 
share of Class B Common Stock.  Voting rights of Class B Common Stock are 
limited in certain circumstances with respect to the election of directors.  
 
The Company's Employee Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1980 Plan") was 
adopted in 1980 and expired on December 31, 1990.  The 1980 Plan provided for 
the issuance of up to 6,720,000 shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock 
in connection with the exercise of stock options granted under such plan.  No 
further grants will be made under the 1980 Plan. 
 
In 1990, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, the 
NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1990 Plan").  The 1990 Plan 
provides for the issuance of up to 8,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock in 
connection with stock options and other awards granted under such plan.  The 
1990 Plan authorizes the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock 
options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, and the sale of restricted 
stock. The exercise price for incentive stock options may not be less than the 
fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant.  The exercise 
price for non-statutory stock options and stock appreciation rights, and the 
purchase price of restricted stock, may not be less than 75% of the fair 
market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant.  No consideration 
will be paid for stock bonuses awarded under the 1990 Plan.  The 1990 Plan is 
administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. The committee has the 
authority to determine the employees to whom awards will be made, the amount 
of the awards, and the other terms and conditions of the awards.  As of May 
31, 1996, the committee has granted substantially all non-statutory stock 
options at 100% of fair market value on the date of grant under the 1990 Plan. 
 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 
No. 123), which is effective for years beginning after December 15, 1995. SFAS 
No. 123 encourages, but does not require, companies to recognize compensation 
expense for grants of common stock, stock options, and other equity 
instruments to employees based upon the fair value of the instruments when 
issued.  Companies electing not to recognize compensation expense are required 
to disclose what net income and earnings per share would have been if the 
expense were recognized.  At this time, the Company expects to elect the 
disclosure option of SFAS No. 123 rather than recognition of compensation 
expense. 
 
The following summarizes the stock option transactions under the 1980 and 1990 
Plans: 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the option plans discussed previously, the Company 
has several agreements outside of the plans with certain directors, 
endorsers and employees. As of May 31, 1996, 3,867,000 options with exercise 
prices ranging from $.417 per share to $46.31 per share had been granted. 
The aggregate compensation expenses related to these agreements is $8,133,000 
and is being amortized over vesting periods from October 1980 through October 
1998. The outstanding agreements expire from February 1998 through September 
2005. 
 
 
The following summarizes transactions outside the option plans for the 
three years ended May 31, 1996: 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 9 - BENEFIT PLANS: 

The Company has a profit sharing plan available to substantially all 
employees.  The terms of the plan call for annual contributions by the Company 
as determined by the Board of Directors.  Contributions of $15,500,000, 
$11,200,000 and $8,500,000 to the plan are included in other expense in the 
consolidated financial statements for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 
1994, respectively. 
 
The Company has a voluntary 401(k) employee savings plan.  The Company matches 
with Common Stock a portion of employee contributions, vesting that portion 
over 5 years.  Company contributions to the savings plan were $4,660,000, 
$3,363,000 and $3,503,000 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively. 
 
NOTE 10 - OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE, NET  
 
Included in other income/expense for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 
1994, is interest income of $16,083,000, $26,094,000 and $19,064,000, 
respectively.  The Company recognized $11,412,000 and $7,060,000 in non-
recurring specific obligations associated with the shutdown of certain 
facilities in conjunction with the consolidation of European warehouses for 
the years ended May 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. 
 
NOTE 11 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
 
The Company leases space for its offices, warehouses and retail stores under 
leases expiring from one to twenty-one years after May 31, 1996.  Rent expense 
aggregated $52,483,000, $43,506,000 and $37,677,000 for the years ended May 
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Amounts of minimum future annual 
rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in each of the five 
fiscal years 1997 through 2001 are $55,196,000, $54,189,000, $44,196,000, 
$40,049,000, $37,025,000, respectively, and $247,320,000 in later years. 
 
Lawsuits arise during the normal course of business.  In the opinion of 
management, none of the pending lawsuits will result in a significant impact 
on the consolidated results of operations or financial position. 
 
 
 
NOTE 12 - ACQUISITION OF BAUER INC.  
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 1995, NIKE acquired all the outstanding 
shares of Bauer Inc. (formerly Canstar Sports Inc.), the world's largest 
hockey equipment manufacturer.  The acquisition was accounted for using the 
purchase method of accounting.  The cash purchase price, including acqusition 
costs, was approximately $409 million.  
 
Bauer's assets and liabilities have been recorded in the Company's 
consolidated balance sheet at their fair values at the acquisition date.  
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill relating to the purchase 
approximated $336 million with estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 40 
years.  The amortization period is based on the Company's belief that the 
combined company has substantial potential for achieving long-term 
appreciation of the fully integrated global company.  Bauer will permit the 
continued expansion of the current lines of business, as well as the 
development of new businesses, which can be used to strategically exploit the 
companies' brand names and products on an accelerated basis.  NIKE believes 
that the combined company will benefit from the acquisition for an 
indeterminable period of time of at least 40 years and that therefore a 40-
year amortization period is appropriate.  The proforma effect of the 
acquisition on the combined results of operations in fiscal 1995 was not 
significant.  
 
NOTE 13 - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
 
The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheet for cash and 
equivalents and notes payable approximate fair value as reported in the 
balance sheet because of their short maturities.  The fair value of long-term 
debt is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the Company's 
incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.  The 
fair value of the Company's long-term debt at May 31, 1996, is approximately 
$9,539,000, compared to a carrying value $9,584,000.  See Note 14 for 
discussion of derivatives.  
 
NOTE 14 - FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES 
 
The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to protect 
the Company from the risk that the eventual dollar cash flows resulting from 
the sale and purchase of products in foreign currencies will be adversely 
affected by changes in exchange rates.  The Company does not hold or issue 
financial instruments for trading purposes.  It is the Company's policy to 
utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign exchange risks 
where internal netting strategies cannot be effectively employed.  
Fluctuations in the value of hedging instruments are offset by fluctuations in 
the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. 
 
The Company uses forward exchange contracts and purchased options to hedge 
certain firm purchases and sales commitments and the related receivables and 
payables.  Purchased currency options are used to hedge certain anticipated 
but not yet firmly committed transactions expected to be recognized within one 
year.  Hedged transactions are denominated primarily in European currencies, 
Japanese yen and Canadian dollar.  Premiums paid on purchased options and any 
realized gains are included in accrued liabilities and recognized in earnings 
when the transaction being hedged is recognized.  Deferred option premiums, 
net of realized gains, were a liability of $5.1 million and $0.9 million at 
May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Gains and losses related to hedges of 
firmly committed transactions and the related receivables and payables are 
deferred and are recognized in income or as adjustments of carrying amounts 
when the offsetting gains and losses are recognized on the hedged transaction. 
Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on forward contracts deferred at 
May 31, 1996 and 1995 were $20.7 million and ($11.8) million, respectively. 
 
The estimated fair values of derivatives used to hedge the Company's risks 
will fluctuate over time.  The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is 
estimated by obtaining quoted market prices.  The fair value of option 
contracts is estimated using option pricing models widely used in the 
financial markets.  These fair value amounts should not be viewed in 
isolation, but rather in relation to the fair values of the underlying hedged 
transactions and the overall reduction in the Company's exposure to adverse 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.  The notional amounts of derivatives 
summarized below do not necessarily represent amounts exchanged by the parties 
and, therefore, are not a direct measure of the exposure to the Company 
through its use of derivatives.  The amounts exchanged are calculated on the 
basis of the notional amounts and the other terms of the derivatives, which 
relate to interest rates, exchange rates or other financial indices.  
 
 
 
The following table presents the aggregate notional principal amount, 
carrying values and fair values of the Company's derivative financial 
instruments outstanding at May 31, 1996 and 1995. 
 
(in millions) 
 
 
 
At May 31, 1996 and May 31, 1995, the Company had no contracts outstanding 
with maturities beyond one year.  All realized gains/losses deferred at May 
31, 1996 will be recognized within one year.  
 
The counterparties to derivative transactions are major financial institutions 
with investment grade or better credit ratings; however, this does not 
eliminate the Company's exposure to credit risk with these institutions.  This 
credit risk is generally limited to the unrealized gains in such contracts 
should any of these counterparties fail to perform as contracted and is 
immaterial to any one institution at May 31, 1996 and 1995.  To manage this 
risk, the Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines which 
are continually monitored and reported to Senior Management according to 
prescribed guidelines. Additionally, the Company utilizes a portfolio of 
financial institutions either headquartered or operating in the same countries 
the Company conducts its business.  As a result, the Company considers the 
risk of counterparty default to be minimal. 
 
 
 
NOTE 15 - INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREAS 
 
The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment, that 
being the design, production, marketing and selling of sports and 
fitnes footwear, apparel and accessories.  During 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
sales to one major customer amounted to approximately 12%, 14% and 14% 
of total sales, respectively.  The geographic distribution of the 
Company's identifiable assets, operating income and revenues are 
summarized in the following table: 

 
 
 
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
 
  There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with 
accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or 
financial statement disclosure required to be reported under this Item.
 
 
                                    PART III 
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
 
  The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission its 
definitive proxy statement dated August 12, 1996 for the annual meeting 
of shareholders to be held on September 16, 1996. The information 
required by this Item with respect to the Company's directors is 
incorporated herein by reference from pages 3 through 6, 10 and 
11 of such proxy statement. Information called for by this Item with 
respect to the Company's executive officers is set forth under "Executive 
Officers of the Registrant" in Item 1 of this Report. 
 
  The information required by Items 11-13 of Part III is incorporated 
herein by reference from the indicated pages of the Company's definitive 
Proxy Statement dated August 12, 1996 for its 1996 annual meeting of 
shareholders.

 
 
                                    PART IV 
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. 
 
(A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT: 

 
  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the 
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes 
thereto.
 
 
  3. EXHIBITS: 
 
    3.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (incorporated by 
        reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on 
        Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1995). 
 
    3.2 Third Restated Bylaws, as amended (incorporated by reference 
        from Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
        the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1995). 
 
    4.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (see Exhibit 3.1). 
 
    4.2 Third Restated Bylaws, as amended (see Exhibit 3.2). 
 
   10.1 Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 1995 among NIKE, Inc., 
        Bank of America National Trust & Savings Association, 
        individually and as Agent, and the other banks party thereto 
        (incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report 
        on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 1995).
 
   10.2 Form of non-employee director Stock Option Agreement (incorporated 
        by refernce from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1993).* 
 
   10.3 Form of Indemnity Agreement entered into between the Company and 
        each of its officers and directors (incorporated by reference from 
        the Company's definitive proxy statement filed in connection with 
        its annual meeting of shareholders held on September 21, 1987).
 
   10.4 NIKE, Inc. Restated Employee Incentive Compensation Plan 
        (incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No. 33-29262 
        on Form S-8 filed by the Company on June 16, 1989).* 
 
   10.5 NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference 
        from the Company's definitive proxy statement filed in connection 
        with its annual meeting of shareholders held on September 17, 1990).* 
 
   10.6 Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Agreement between NIKE, Inc. 
        and Philip H. Knight dated March 10, 1994 (incorporated by 
        reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for he fiscal year ended May 31, 1994).*
 
   10.7 NIKE, Inc. Executive Performance Sharing Plan (incorporated 
        by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement filed 
        in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders held on 
        September 18, 1995).* 
 
   21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
 
   23 Consent of Price Waterhouse, independent certified public accountants 
      (set forth on page F-4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).
 
*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
 
  Upon written request to Investor Relations, NIKE, Inc., One Bowerman 
Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453, the Company will furnish share- 
holders with a copy of any Exhibit upon payment of $.10 per page, which 
represents the Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing such Exhibits.
 
(B) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during 
    the last quarter of fiscal 1995: 
 
    March 29, 1996   Item 5. Other Events         Press Release regarding 
                                                  third quarter earnings 
                                                    release. 
 

 
 
 

- --------
 
 
                                      F-1 
 

                                  SCHEDULE IX 
 
                            SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS(1) 
                                 (IN THOUSANDS) 

 
- -------- 
Notes:
(1) For information pertaining to the general terms of short-term 
    borrowings, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2) Represents the maximum amount of short-term borrowing outstanding at a 
    month-end during the respective period.
(3) The average amount outstanding during the period is calculated by 
    dividing the total of principal outstanding at each month-end by 12. 
    The weighted average interest rate during the period is calculated by 
    dividing the interest expense for the year by the average amount 
    outstanding. 
(4) NIAC refers to Nissho Iwai American Corporation, a subsidiary of 
    Nissho Iwai Corporation, a Japanese trading company.
 
                                      F-2
 

                                   SCHEDULE X 
 
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION 
                                 (IN THOUSANDS) 


  The other required categories of expenses have not been shown because 
they do not exceed one percent of revenues. 
 
                                      F-3 
 

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS 
 
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the documents 
listed below, of our report dated July 3, 1996, which appears on Page 15 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
 
    1. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-8 (No. 2-81419); 
 
    2. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-8 (No. 33-29262); 
 
    3. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-43205). 
 
    4. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-48977); and 

    5. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-3 (No. 33-41842). 
 
    6. Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement 
  on Form S-8 (No. 33-63995). 
 
Price Waterhouse LLP 
Portland, Oregon 
August 29, 1996 
 
                                      F-4 
 

                                   SIGNATURES 
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE 
SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          NIKE, Inc. 
 
Date: August 29, 1996 
                                                 /s/ Philip H. Knight 
                                          By _______________________________ 

                                                     Philip H. Knight, 
                                                 Chairman of the Board and 
                                                  Chief Executive Officer 
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS 
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE 
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 
                                          Principal Executive Officer and 
                                          Director:
 
Date: August 29, 1996                            /s/ Philip H. Knight
                                          By _______________________________ 
 
                                                     Philip H. Knight
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer
 
                                                  Principal Financial and
                                                    Accounting Officer:
 
Date: August 29, 1996                            /s/ Robert S. Falcone
                                          By _______________________________ 

                                                     Robert S. Falcone 
                                            Vice President and Chief Financial 
                                                          Officer 
 
 
DIRECTORS: 
 
Date: August 29, 1996                          
                                          By /s/ William J. Bowerman 
                                                    William J. Bowerman
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                        
                                          By /s/ Jill K. Conway
                                                      Jill K. Conway
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                            
                                          By /s/ Ralph D. DeNunzio 
                                                     Ralph D. DeNunzio
                                                         Director
 
                                     S-1 
 
 
Date: August 29, 1996                           
                                          By /s/ Richard K. Donahue 
                                                    Richard K. Donahue
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                            
                                          By /s/ Delbert J. Hayes 
                                                     Delbert J. Hayes
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                           
                                          By /s/ Douglas G. Houser 
                                                     Douglas G. Houser
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                             
                                          By /s/ John E. Jaqua 
                                                       John E. Jaqua
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                       
                                          By Ralph A. Pfeiffer, Jr. 
                                                  Ralph A. Pfeiffer, Jr.
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                          
                                          By /s/ Charles W. Robinson 
                                                    Charles W. Robinson
                                                         Director
 
Date: August 29, 1996                         
                                          By /s/ John R. Thompson, Jr. 
                                                   John R. Thompson, Jr.
                                                         Director
 
                                         S-2 
 
 


