
10-K
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
              OREGON                                93-0584541
  (State or other jurisdiction of        (IRS Employer Identification No.)
          incorporation)
 
                               ONE BOWERMAN DRIVE
                          BEAVERTON, OREGON 97005-6453
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (503) 671-6453
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                              (NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
       (TITLE OF EACH CLASS)                   ON WHICH REGISTERED)
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
       Class B Common Stock                   New York Stock Exchange
                                              Pacific Stock Exchange
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /
 
    As of July 25, 1997, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class A
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $258,578,092 and the
aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class B Common Stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $11,501,675,310.
 
    As of July 25, 1997, the number of shares of the Registrant's Class A Common
Stock outstanding was 101,507,153 and the number of shares of the Registrant's
Class B Common Stock outstanding was 188,378,576
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
    Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 13, 1997 for the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on September 22, 1997 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Report.
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  / /
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   NIKE, INC.
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                  ON FORM 10-K
                                

 
                                       i

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
    NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon.
As used herein, the terms "NIKE" and the "Company" refer to NIKE, Inc. and its
predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates
otherwise.
 
    The Company's principal business activity involves the design, development
and worldwide marketing of high quality footwear, apparel, equipment, and
accessory products. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic
apparel in the world. The Company sells its products to approximately 19,700
retail accounts in the United States and through a mix of independent
distributors, licensees and subsidiaries in approximately 110 countries around
the world. Virtually all of the Company's products are manufactured by
independent contractors. Most footwear products are produced outside the United
States, while apparel products are produced both in the United States and
abroad.
 
PRODUCTS
 
    NIKE's athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific
athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or
leisure purposes. The Company places considerable emphasis on high quality
construction and innovative design. Basketball, cross-training, running, women's
and children's shoes are currently the top-selling product categories and are
expected to continue to lead in product sales in the near future. However, the
Company also markets shoes designed for outdoor activities, tennis, golf,
soccer, baseball, football, bicycling, volleyball, wrestling, cheerleading,
aquatic activities and other athletic and recreational uses.
 
    The Company sells active sports apparel covering each of the above
categories, as well as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and
accessories are designed to complement the Company's athletic footwear products,
feature the same trademarks and are sold through the same marketing and
distribution channels. The Company often markets footwear, apparel and
accessories in "collections" of similar design or for specific purposes.
 
    The Company sells a line of performance equipment under the NIKE brand name,
including sport balls, timepieces, eyewear, skates, and other equipment designed
for sports activities.
 
    The Company also sells a line of dress and casual footwear and accessories
for men, women and children under the brand name Cole
Haan-Registered Trademark-through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan
Holdings Incorporated. The Company markets a line of headwear with licensed team
logos under the brand name "Sports Specialties", through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Sports Specialties Corporation. The Company also sells small amounts
of various plastic products to other manufacturers through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Tetra Plastics, Inc.
 
    In 1995 the Company acquired Bauer Inc., formerly Canstar Sports Inc., the
world's largest hockey equipment manufacturer. Bauer manufactures and
distributes ice skates, skate blades, in-line roller skates, protective gear,
hockey sticks, and hockey jerseys and accessories under the
Bauer-Registered Trademark-brand name. Bauer also offers a full selection of
products for street, roller and field hockey.
 

SALES AND MARKETING
 
    The table below sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
United States and inter-national (non-U.S.) revenues for the last three fiscal
years.
 

 
    Financial information about United States and non-U.S. operations appears in
Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements on page 35.
 
    The Company experiences moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume
during the year. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from
time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for
particular types of footwear and apparel.
 
    Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of
various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the
demand for the Company's products and, consequently, the types of products the
Company offers. This is a continuing risk. The Company must therefore respond to
trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing
product offerings, developing new products, styles and categories, and
influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing.
 
UNITED STATES MARKET
 
    During fiscal 1997, sales to the Company's approximately 19,700 retail
accounts in the United States accounted for approximately 60 percent of total
revenues. The domestic retail account base includes a mix of department stores,
footwear stores, sporting goods stores, skating, tennis and golf shops, and
other retail accounts. During fiscal year 1997, NIKE's three largest customers
accounted for approximately 29 percent of sales in the United States.
 
    NIKE makes substantial use of its innovative "futures" ordering program,
which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with
the guarantee that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within a set
time period at a fixed price. In fiscal year 1997, 93 percent of the Company's
domestic footwear shipments (excluding Cole Haan-Registered Trademark- and
Bauer-Registered Trademark-) were made under the futures program, compared to 88
percent in fiscal 1996 and 88 percent in fiscal 1995. In fiscal 1997, 86% of the
Company's domestic apparel shipments were made under the futures program.
 
    The Company utilizes 18 NIKE sales offices for the solicitation of sales in
the United States. The Company also utilizes 15 independent sales
representatives for the sale of specialty products, such as golf, cycling, water
sports and outdoor wear. In addition, the Company operates 86 wholly-owned
retail outlets, 39 of which carry primarily B-grade and close-out merchandise,
31 of which are Cole Haan-Registered Trademark- stores, 9 of which are
high-profile NIKETOWN stores designed to showcase the Company's products, and 5
of which are employee-only stores.
 
    The Company's domestic distribution centers for footwear are located in
Beaverton, Oregon, Wilsonville, Oregon, Memphis, Tennessee, and Greenland, New
Hampshire. Apparel products are shipped from the Memphis distribution center and
from Greenville, North Carolina. Cole Haan footwear and
 

Bauer Inc. products are distributed primarily from Greenland, New Hampshire, and
Sports Specialties headwear is shipped from Irvine, California.
 
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
 
    The Company currently markets its products in approximately 110 countries
outside of the United States through independent distributors, licensees,
subsidiaries and branch offices. NIKE operates 26 distribution centers in
Europe, Asia, Canada, Latin America, and Australia, and also distributes through
independent distributors and licensees. The Company estimates that its products
are sold through approximately 31,000 retail accounts outside the United States.
Non-U.S. sales accounted for 38 percent of total revenues in fiscal 1997,
compared to 36 percent in fiscal 1996 and 37 percent in fiscal 1995. In many
countries, including Japan and those in Europe, the Company has a futures
ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures program
described above. The Company is developing the program in other countries.
Outside of the United States, NIKE's three largest customers accounted for
approximately 5 percent of non-U.S. sales.
 
    International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, India, Italy, Japan,
Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, The Netherlands, Norway, Peoples Republic
of China, The Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan,
Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam. The Company operates 19 wholly-owned
retail outlets outside the United States.
 
SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS
 
    Foot Locker, a chain of retail stores specializing in athletic footwear and
apparel, accounted for approximately 12 percent of global net sales of NIKE
brand products during fiscal 1997. No other customer accounted for 10 percent or
more of net sales during fiscal 1997.
 
ORDERS
 
    As of May 31, 1997, the Company's worldwide futures orders for athletic
footwear and apparel totaled $4.9 billion, compared to $3.9 billion as of May
31, 1996. Such orders are scheduled for delivery from June through November of
1997. Based upon historical data, the Company expects that approximately 95
percent of these orders will be filled in that time period, although the orders
may be cancelable.
 
PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
    The Company believes that its research and development efforts are a key
factor in its past and future success. Technical innovation in the design of
footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as NIKE
strives to produce products that reduce or eliminate injury, aid athletic
performance and maximize comfort.
 
    In addition to its own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics,
exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, NIKE
also utilizes research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes,
coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other
experts who consult with the Company and review designs, materials and concepts
for product improvement. Employee athletes wear-test and evaluate products
during the design and development process.
 
    In fiscal 1997, NIKE spent approximately $73.2 million on product research,
development and evaluation, compared to $46.8 million in 1996, and $28.8 million
in 1995.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
    In fiscal 1997, approximately 51 percent of the Company's total apparel
production for sale to the United States market was manufactured in the United
States by independent contract manufacturers, most
 

of which are located in the southern states. The remainder was manufactured by
independent contractors in Asia and South America, most of which are located in
Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, The Philippines, Singapore, Sri
Lanka, Taiwan, and Thailand. Substantially all of NIKE's apparel production for
sale to the international market was manufactured outside the U.S.
 
    Virtually all of the Company's footwear (exclusive of Cole
Haan-Registered Trademark-) is produced outside of the United States. In fiscal
1997, contract suppliers in Indonesia, the People's Republic of China, Thailand,
Vietnam, South Korea, and Taiwan accounted for approximately 37 percent, 37
percent, 10 percent, 8 percent, 5 percent, and 3 percent, respectively, of total
NIKE brand footwear production. The Company also has manufacturing agreements
with independent factories in Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Mexico and the
Philippines. The largest single supplier accounted for approximately 7 percent
of total 1997 footwear production.
 
    The principal materials used in the Company's footwear products are natural
and synthetic rubber, vinyl and plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials,
nylon, leather, canvas, and a polyurethane film used to make
AIR-SOLE-Registered Trademark- cushioning components. The principal materials
used in the Company's apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and
threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics
designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture.
NIKE and its contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. Most raw
materials are available in the countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE
has thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying its raw material
requirements. Tetra Plastics, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, is the
Company's sole supplier of the material from which the
AIR-SOLE-Registered Trademark- cushioning components used in footwear are made.
 
    The Company's international operations are subject to the usual risks of
doing business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, export
duties, quotas, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of
the world, political instability. See "Trade Legislation" below. NIKE has not,
to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the
likelihood of such developments occurring. The Company believes that it has the
ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of
supply for the products obtained from its present suppliers outside of the
United States. If events prevented the Company from acquiring products from its
suppliers in a particular country, the Company's footwear operations could be
temporarily disrupted and the Company could experience an adverse financial
impact. However, the Company believes that it could eliminate any such
disruption within a period of no more than 12 months, and that any adverse
impact would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. The Company believes that
its principal competitors are subject to similar risks.
 
    All Company products manufactured overseas and imported into the United
States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service.
Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by
the Customs Service. The Company is unable to predict whether additional United
States customs duties, quotas or other restrictions may be imposed on the
importation of its products in the future. The enactment of any such duties,
quotas or restrictions could result in increases in the cost of such products
generally and might adversely affect the sales or profitability of the Company
and the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole.
 
    Since 1972, Nissho Iwai American Corporation ("NIAC"), a subsidiary of
Nissho Iwai Corporation, a large Japanese trading company, has performed
significant financing and export-import services for the Company. The Company
purchases through NIAC substantially all of the athletic footwear and apparel it
acquires from overseas suppliers. The Company's agreements with NIAC extend
through 2000, and the Company expects that the relationship will be continued
beyond that date.
 
TRADE LEGISLATION
 
    In June 1997, President Clinton extended to June 1998 "most favored nation"
(MFN) non-discriminatory trading status to the People's Republic of China
(China) and Congress supported the President's decision. Under U.S. law, MFN
status for China is extended annually. The United States has extended MFN status
to China each year since 1980. China is a material source of footwear production
for the
 

Company. A revocation of MFN status would result in a substantial increase in
tariff rates on goods imported from China, and, therefore could adversely affect
the Company's operations. While the United States continues to have foreign
policy as well as human rights concerns with China, the Clinton Administration
and the Congress have opposed using China's MFN status as a means of addressing
these concerns. However, even if NIKE's Chinese sources were affected by a
change in China's MFN status, the Company believes that the impact of such
change would not have a long term, material adverse impact on the Company's
business.
 
    Certain countries within the European Community have for some time
maintained quotas restricting the importation of footwear manufactured in China.
With respect to such quotas, see the discussion in Item 7 below.
 
    In 1994, the 125 member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT), including the United States, signed a new pact to govern world
trade. The new agreement, which was approved by Congress in 1995 and became
effective January 1, 1995 for most countries, should provide better
international market access opportunities for U.S. goods and services. The
agreement, among other things, significantly cuts global tariffs on many
products, reduces or eliminates numerous non-tariff measures (such as quotas and
discriminatory product standards), establishes stronger rules on the imposition
of duties relating to the anti-dumping and subsidies codes, provides greater
protection for intellectual property rights, and creates a strengthened dispute
settlement procedure. NIKE believes that the new agreement, once fully
implemented by all countries, will reduce many of the obstacles to international
trade and benefit the Company.
 
    In 1995, President Clinton officially restored diplomatic relations between
the United States and Vietnam. The President's action is a step toward
restoration of full trade relations including the United States granting
non-discriminatory MFN trading status to Vietnam which would result in lower
tariffs between the two countries. The Company is currently sourcing footwear
and apparel products from factories in Vietnam. MFN trading status for Vietnam
could expand production and marketing opportunities for NIKE in Vietnam.
 
COMPETITION
 
    The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive
in the United States and on a worldwide basis. NIKE competes internationally
with an increasing number of specialized athletic shoe companies, apparel
companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified
lines of athletic shoes, apparel and equipment including Reebok, Adidas and
others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer
preferences in the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets constitute
significant risk factors in the Company's operations.
 
    NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the
world. Performance and reliability of shoes, apparel, and equipment, new product
development, price, product identity through marketing and promotion, and
customer support and service are important aspects of competition in the
athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry. The Company believes that it
is competitive in all of these areas.
 
TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS
 
    NIKE utilizes trademarks on nearly all of its products and believes that
having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in
creating a market for its goods, in identifying the Company and in
distinguishing its goods from the goods of others. The Company considers its
NIKE-Registered Trademark- and Swoosh-Registered Trademark- design trademarks to
be among its most valuable assets and has registered these trademarks in over
100 countries. In addition, the Company owns other trademarks which it utilizes
in marketing its products. NIKE continues to vigorously protect its trademarks
against infringement.
 

    The Company has an exclusive, worldwide license to make and sell footwear
using patented "Air" technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas
encapsulated in polyurethane. Some of the early NIKE Air patents expire in 1997,
enabling competitors to use certain types of NIKE Air technology. Subsequent
NIKE Air patents will not expire for several years. The Company also has a
number of patents covering components and features used in various athletic and
leisure shoes. Management believes that NIKE's success depends upon skills in
design, research and development, production and marketing rather than upon its
patent position. However, it has followed a policy of filing applications for
United States and foreign patents on inventions, designs and improvements that
it deems valuable.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    The Company had approximately 21,800 employees at May 31, 1997. Management
considers its relationship with its employees to be excellent. With the
exception of Bauer Inc., the Company's employees are not represented by a union.
Of Bauer's North American employees, approximately 50 percent or fewer than
1,400, are covered by four union collective bargaining agreements with four
separate bargaining units, and all of Bauer's approximately 190 employees in
Italy are covered by three collective bargaining agreements. The collective
bargaining agreements expire on various dates in 1997 through 1999. There has
never been a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The executive officers of the Company as of July 31, 1997 are as follows:
 
    Philip H. Knight, Chief Executive Officer--Mr. Knight, 59, a director since
1968, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of NIKE.
Mr. Knight is a co-founder of the Company and, except for the period from June
1983 through September 1984, served as its President from 1968 to 1990. Prior to
1968, Mr. Knight was a certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse LLP and
Coopers & Lybrand and was an Assistant Professor of Business Administration at
Portland State University.
 
    Jeffrey M. Cava, Vice President, Global Human Resources--Mr. Cava, 45, has
been employed by the Company since 1996, with primary responsibility for NIKE's
Global Human Resources. Previous to NIKE, Mr. Cava held the position of Vice
President, Human Resources, Walt Disney Consumer Products, Burbank, California.
 
    Thomas E. Clarke, President and Chief Operating Officer--Dr.Clarke, 46, a
director since 1994, joined the Company in 1980. Dr. Clarke has held various
positions with the Company, primarily in research, design, development and
marketing. He was appointed divisional vice president in charge of marketing in
1987. He was elected Vice President in 1989 and appointed General Manager in
1990. Dr. Clarke holds a Doctorate degree in biomechanics.
 
    Gary M. DeStefano, Vice President, Sales--Mr. DeStefano, 40, has been
employed by the Company since 1982, with primary responsibilities in sales and
customer service. Mr. DeStefano was appointed Director of Domestic Sales in
1990, divisional Vice President in charge of domestic sales in 1992, and Vice
President of Sales in June 1996.
 
    Elizabeth G. Dolan, Vice President, Corporate Communications and
Marketing--Ms. Dolan, 40, has been employed by the Company since 1988, when she
joined the Company as Director of Public Relations. Ms. Dolan was appointed Vice
President of Corporate Communications in 1990 and was elected Vice President of
Marketing in 1994. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Dolan was Director of
Public Relations at Cartier, Inc. in New York.
 
    Robert S. Falcone, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer--Mr. Falcone,
50, has been employed by the Company since 1990. Mr. Falcone joined the Company
as Director of Acquisitions. From May, 1991 through November, 1991, he also
served as interim Director of Human Resources, and he was elected Vice
 

President and Chief Financial Officer in 1992. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Falcone worked for 21 years as a certified public accountant for Price
Waterhouse LLP.
 
    Stephen D. Gomez, Vice President, Apparel--Mr. Gomez, 42 has been employed
by the Company since 1981, with primary responsibilities in apparel. He was
appointed General Manager of European Apparel in 1987, and Apparel Marketing
Director in 1989. Mr. Gomez was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of
Apparel in 1992, and was elected Vice President of Apparel in June 1996.
 
    Clare L. Hamill, Vice President, Footwear--Ms Hamill, 42, has been employed
by the Company since 1981. She began in NIKE's Sports Lab and has held
management position in both footwear and apparel. She directed Footwear and
Apparel Product Management in Europe from 1989 to 1992. She became Vice
President and General Manager of Footwear in 1993.
 
    Timothy J. Joyce, Vice President, Global Sales--Mr. Joyce, 41, has been
employed by the Company since 1980, with primary responsibilities in Sales. He
was appointed Regional Sales Manager in 1987, Director of USA Footwear Sales in
1990 and Director of European Sales in 1994. Mr. Joyce was appointed Divisional
Vice President in charge of Global Sales in 1997.
 
    Mark G. Parker, Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Product
Marketing--Mr. Parker, 40, has been employed by the Company since 1979 with
primary responsibilities in product research, design and development. Mr. Parker
was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of development in 1987,
elected Vice President in 1989, and appointed General Manager in 1993.
 
    Lindsay D. Stewart, Vice President Legal and Corporate Affairs and Assistant
Secretary-- Mr. Stewart, 50, joined the Company as Assistant Corporate Counsel
in 1981. Mr. Stewart became Corporate Counsel in 1983. He was elected Vice
President and General Counsel in 1991. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Stewart
was in private practice and an attorney for Georgia-Pacific Corporation.
 
    David B. Taylor, Vice President--Mr. Taylor, 42, has been employed by the
Company since 1977, with primary responsibilities in production. Mr. Taylor was
appointed divisional Vice President in charge of production in 1988, and was
elected Vice President in 1989.
 

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
    Following is a summary of principal properties owned or leased by the
Company. The Company's leases expire at various dates through the year 2017.
 

 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine
litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the Company is a party
or of which any of its property is the subject.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the 1997 fiscal year to
a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
    The Company's Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and the Pacific Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NKE. At July 25, 1997
there were 17,197 holders of record of the Company's Class B Common Stock and 32
holders of record of the Company's Class A Common Stock. These figures do not
include beneficial owners who hold shares in nominee name. The Class A Common
Stock is not publicly traded but each share is convertible upon request of the
holder into one share of Class B Common Stock.
 
    Reference is made to the table entitled "Selected Quarterly Financial Data"
in Item 6, which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and
low closing sales prices on the New York Stock Exchange, as adjusted to reflect
the 2-for-1 stock split that became effective in October of 1990, the 2-for-1
stock split that became effective in October of 1995 and the 2-for-1 stock split
that became effective in October 1996. Such table also sets forth the amount and
frequency of all cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock for the
1996 and 1997 fiscal years.
 

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                               FINANCIAL HISTORY

 
All per common share data has been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock splits
paid October 23, 1996, October 30, 1995 and October 5, 1990. The Company's Class
B Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Exchanges and trades under
the symbol NKE. At May 31, 1997, there were approximately 300,000 shareholders.
Years 1993 and prior have been restated to reflect the implementation of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109--Accounting for Income Taxes
(see Notes 1 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
                 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
*   For comparable purposes with 1997, quarterly figures for 1996 have been
    adjusted to reflect the elimination of the one month lag in reporting by
    certain of the Company's non-U.S. operations. See further discussion in Note
    1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
    Fiscal year 1997 saw record revenues and earnings. Revenues and net income
have now increased 13 and 11 consecutive comparable quarters, respectively.
 
    - Revenues grew 42%, an increase of $2.7 billion, compared to the previous
      year increase of 36%.
 
    - Gross margins established a new record, surpassing 40% of revenues for the
      first time.
 
    - Selling and administrative costs increased 0.5%, as a percent of revenues,
      over the previous year.
 
    - Net income was $795.8 million, an increase of 44%.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
FISCAL 1997 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1996
 
    Significant growth in worldwide revenues and improved gross margin
percentage were the primary factors contributing to record earnings for fiscal
1997 as compared to 1996. In the United States, footwear revenues increased $1
billion, or 36%, demonstrating continued market share gains and industry growth.
U.S. apparel exceeded $1 billion in revenues for the first time, increasing
$588.5 million, or 70%, over the previous year. Revenues from international
(non-U.S.) markets increased 49% over the previous year, and now represent 38%
of total revenues. Markets outside the U.S. in which the Company operates,
continue to offer tremendous opportunity for growth. The Company continues to
invest in infrastructure and local marketing and advertising to capitalize on
these opportunities. Through aggressive worldwide marketing efforts and global
infrastructure spending, the Company is positioning itself to maintain and to
expand markets and gain market share on a worldwide basis.
 
    The Company experienced revenue growth in fiscal 1997 in all breakout
categories (see chart). U.S. footwear represents the largest increase in total
dollars, improving by almost $1 billion, or 36%, as a result of 28% more pairs
sold and a 6% increase in average selling price. The increase in average selling
price was due to a change in product mix as well as increased prices in effect
during the second half of the fiscal year in certain categories. Men's
basketball, men's running, men's cross training, kids, and women's fitness
comprise approximately 79% of the total U.S. footwear business, and individually
increased 35%, 59%, 26%, 53% and 51%, respectively. Brand Jordan and Golf
categories increased significantly over the prior year, improving 133% and 111%,
respectively. Two categories experienced revenue reductions, men's court and
outdoor, down 22% and 24%, respectively. U.S. apparel experienced growth in all
categories, demonstrating the strength of the NIKE brand. Brand revenues outside
of the U.S. increased $1.1 billion, or 49%. The U.S. dollar strengthened against
nearly all currencies. Had the U.S. dollar remained constant with that of the
prior year, non-U.S. revenues would have increased $1.4 billion, or 59%. By
region, Asia Pacific increased $511 million, or 70% (84% on a constant dollar
basis), Europe increased $497 million, or 38% (48% on a constant dollar basis)
and the Americas (which includes Canada and Latin America) increased $137
million, or 44% (46% on a constant dollar basis). The most significant increases
were in Japan, Korea, United Kingdom, Italy, and Canada. Other Brands, which
includes Bauer Inc., Cole Haan, Sports Specialties, Corp., and Tetra Plastics,
Inc., decreased 3% to $504 million. The Company expects revenue growth in fiscal
1998 to be affected by strong demand for the NIKE brand on a global scale, and
reduced growth rates in the U.S. given the significance of the existing market
share.
 

    The breakdown of revenues follows:
 

 
    Gross margins increased to 40.1% of revenues in fiscal 1997, exceeding 40%
for the first time in Company history. The improved percentage was principally
driven by price increases in certain U.S. footwear categories in effect the
second half of the year. This was offset by slight reductions in gross margin
percentages from increased close-out sales as a percentage of total sales, most
predominately at Bauer, due to the softening of the in-line skate market and
liquidation of non-Bauer brand product to consolidate to a single Bauer brand.
Global fiscal 1998 margins could be affected negatively by increasing product
costs, badded infrastructure to support higher levels of operations, and
increased sales of lower priced product including close-outs.
 
    Selling and administrative expenses represented 25.1% of revenues compared
with 24.6% in the prior year. NIKE brand expenses increased $353 in the U.S. and
$355 million outside the U.S. Increases were largely driven by increased sales
and marketing spending, as well as infrastructure-related costs to support
growth outside the U.S. The Company intends to continue to invest in growth
opportunities and worldwide marketing and advertising in order to ensure the
successful sell-through of orders discussed below.
 
    Interest expense increased $12.8 million due to increased short-term and new
long-term borrowings needed to fund the increased level of operations, including
increased working capital requirements and infrastructure. See further
discussion under liquidity and capital resources.
 
    Other income/expense was a net expense of $32.3 million in fiscal 1997,
compared with $36.7 million in 1996. The majority of the reduction was
attributable to increased interest income, higher gain on disposal of assets and
income from a new promotional event staged in Japan, offset by an one-time Bauer
restructuring charge of $18 million, which includes, among other things, moving
certain products to offshore production and the closing of certain facilities.
 
    Worldwide futures and advance orders for NIKE brand athletic footwear and
apparel, scheduled for delivery from June through November, 1997, were
approximately $4.9 billion, 18% higher than such orders booked in the comparable
period of the prior year. These orders and the percentage growth in these orders
are not necessarily indicative of the growth in revenues which the Company will
experience for the subsequent periods. This is because the mix of
advance/futures and orders at once has shifted significantly toward
advance/futures orders as the NIKE brand and futures program become more
established in all areas, specifically in the non U.S. regions. The mix of
orders will continue to vary as the non-U.S. operations continue to account for
a greater percentage of total revenues and place a greater emphasis on futures
programs. Finally, exchange rates can cause differences in comparisons.
 
    Since the Company operates globally, it is exposed to market risks from
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the effect of
fluctuations on the Company's foreign currency
 

transactions, the Company uses highly liquid foreign currency spot, forward and
purchased options with high credit quality financial institutions. The Company
transacts in foreign exchange contracts to hedge underlying economic exposures
and does not transact in derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Where
possible, the Company nets its foreign exchange exposures to take advantage of
natural offsets that occur in the normal course of business. Firmly committed
transactions and the related receivables and payables may be hedged with forward
exchange contracts or purchased options. Anticipated, but not yet firmly
committed transactions, may be hedged through the use of purchased options.
Additional information concerning the Company's hedging activities is presented
in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    The Company's non-U.S. operations are subject to the usual risks of doing
business abroad, such as the imposition of import quotas or anti-dumping duties.
In 1995, the EU Commission, at the request of the European footwear
manufacturers, initiated two anti-dumping investigations covering certain
footwear imported from the People's Republic of China, Indonesia and Thailand.
In January 1997, the Commission imposed significant provisional anti-dumping
duties on textile upper shoes imported from China and Indonesia. The Commission
has not yet adopted permanent measures nor measures for leather/synthetic shoes,
and the Company is unable to determine whether the Commission will do so.
 
    Nevertheless, the investigations and the anti-dumping duties expressly
exclude "footwear designed for a sporting activity", and the Company does not
currently believe that the Commission will change the exclusion. While the
exclusion is subject to interpretation and/or amendment by customs authorities,
the Company believes that most of its footwear sourced in the target countries
for sale in the EU fits within the exclusion and, therefore, the Company will
not be materially affected by the results of the antidumping investigations. If
the Company's footwear were not covered by the exclusion, the Company would
consider, in addition to its possible legal remedies, shifting the production of
such footwear to other countries in order to maintain competitive pricing. The
Company believes that it is prepared to deal effectively with any such
anti-dumping measures that may arise and that any adverse impact would be of a
short-term nature. The Company continues to closely monitor international trade
restrictions and to adopt its multi-country sourcing strategy and contingency
plans. The Company believes that its major competitors would be similarly
impacted by any such restrictions.
 
    As further explained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
prior to fiscal year 1997, certain of the Company's non-U.S. operations reported
their results of operations on a one month lag which allowed more time to
compile results. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 1997, the one
month lag was eliminated and the May 1996 charge from operations for these
entities of $4.1 million was recorded to retained earnings. This change did not
have a material effect on the annual results of operations, however, quarterly
results changed as certain reporting periods shifted one month. The Selected
Quarterly Data section includes adjusted quarterly data for fiscal year 1996 as
if the change had been in effect.
 
FISCAL 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1995
 
    Significant growth in worldwide revenues and improved leverage of selling
and administrative costs were the primary factors contributing to record
earnings for fiscal year 1996 as compared to 1995.
 
    The Company experienced revenue growth in fiscal 1996 in all breakout
categories. The most significant increase in absolute dollars was U.S. footwear,
which grew $463.2 million, or 20.1%, as a result of 19% more pairs shipped and a
0.9% increase in average selling price per pair. Men's basketball, women's
fitness and men's training comprised approximately half of the U.S. footwear
category in terms of total revenues, and individually increased 7%, 29% and 25%,
respectively, over the prior year. U.S. apparel increased $418.6 million, or
99%, experiencing growth in all categories and demonstrating the strength of the
NIKE brand. Non-U.S. brand revenues also increased significantly, growing $616.7
million, or 35.9%, as a result of increases of $438.0 million (35.2%) and $178.7
million (37.8%) in footwear and apparel,
 

respectively, over the prior year. Non-U.S. revenues were increased 1.2% as a
result of the foreign currency translation impact. All NIKE regions outside the
U.S. experienced revenue increases greater than 30%. Europe increased 33%, Asia
Pacific, 41%, and the Americas, 35%. The most significant increases were in
Japan, Italy, United Kingdom, Korea and Canada. Other brands increased $211.3
million, or 68%, over the prior year. Bauer, which was acquired at the end of
the Company's third quarter of fiscal 1995, contributed $173.7 million of the
increase.
 
    Gross margins were 39.6% in fiscal 1996 compared to 39.8% in 1995. The
slight reduction in gross margins compared with 1995 was primarily driven by
increased costs of air freight to meet delivery dates on increasing customer
orders, and increased footwear product costs not fully recovered through the
selling price. These higher expenses were partially offset by improved apparel
margins due to significant increases in revenues and a reduction in close-outs
as a percentage of total revenues.
 
    Total selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues
decreased to 24.6% as compared to 25.4% in 1995. The reduction can be attributed
primarily to significant increases in revenues. The increase in absolute dollars
was $378.9 million, or 31%. U.S. operations increased $160.5 million and non-
U.S. increased $176.3 million, largely a result of increased sales and marketing
spending as well as infrastructure to support growth outside the U.S. Bauer
accounted for $33 million of the increase.
 
    Interest expense increased $15.3 million due primarily to the higher levels
of short term borrowings needed to fund current operations. In 1995, average
cash and equivalents were higher, as available cash was used to fund the
acquisition of Bauer.
 
    Other income/expense rose $25 million in expense over 1995, primarily as a
result of increased goodwill amortization from the acquisition of Bauer, a
reduction in interest income due to a net lower cash position compared with the
prior year, and increased profit share expense due to increased earnings. These
were partially offset by the absence of non-recurring specific obligations which
occurred in the prior year related to the shutdown for certain facilities in
conjunction with the consolidation of European warehouses.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
    The Company's financial position was very strong at May 31, 1997. Compared
to May 31, 1996, total assets grew 36%, or $1.4 billion, to $5.4 billion, and
shareholders' equity increased 30%, or $724 million, to $3.2 billion. Working
capital increased $704 million, and the Company's current ratio increased to 2.1
at May 31, 1997 from 1.9 at 1996 fiscal year-end.
 
    Cash provided by operations decreased slightly to $323 million for the year
ended May 31, 1997, primarily due to improved operating results offset by
increased working capital requirements, given the global growth of the Company.
Specifically, inventories increased $417 million, representing growth in nearly
all areas of the Company. U.S. footwear and apparel inventories increased $71
million (31%) and $52 million (29%), respectively. The largest increases outside
of the U.S. were in the European and Asia/ Pacific regions with increases of
$121 million (54%) and $119 million (134%), respectively, due primarily to the
significant increase in operations. Inventory turns on a consolidated basis
reduced to approximately 4.8 times, as compared with 5.0 in fiscal 1996.
Accounts receivable increased $486 million due, in part, to the higher level of
fourth quarter revenues compared with the previous year.
 
    Additions to property, plant and equipment for fiscal 1997 were $466
million, an increase of $250 million over 1996. Additions in the U.S. totaled
$266 million for the year due to continued overall expansion of U.S. operations
which includes warehouse locations, management information systems, world
headquarters expansion and the continued development of NIKETOWN retail
locations. Outside the U.S., additions totaled $172 million, compared to $154
million for fiscal 1996, and relates to the continued expansion of
infrastructure, investments in information systems and new NIKE retail
locations. The remaining additions relate to other brands. Expected capital
expenditures for fiscal 1998 approximate $680
 

million, with the primary components consisting of the continued expansion of
the world headquarters, new NIKETOWN retail locations and warehouse expansion in
the U.S., Japan and Korea.
 
    Additions to long-term debt of approximately $300 million in fiscal 1997,
were used to fund the significant increase in property, plant and equipment, as
well as increased working capital requirements. In June 1996, the Company's
Japanese subsidiary borrowed 10.5 billion Yen (approximately $100 million) in a
private placement, maturing June 26, 2011, to fund construction of a warehouse
and distribution center and for other corporate purposes. Additionally, during
December 1996 the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the sale of up to $500 million of debt
securities. The filing will enable the Company to issue debt from time to time
during the next several years. Under this program, the Company issued $200
million seven-year notes in December 1996, maturing December 1, 2003, and
subsequent to May 31, 1997, an additional $100 million medium-term notes were
issued, maturing in three to five years. The proceeds were swapped into Dutch
Guilders to obtain long-term fixed rate financing to support the growth of the
Company's European operations.
 
    Management believes that significant funds generated by operations, together
with access to sufficient sources of funds, will adequately meet its anticipated
operating, global infrastructure expansion and capital needs. Significant short
and long-term lines of credit are maintained with banks which, along with cash
on hand, provide adequate operating liquidity. Liquidity is also provided by the
Company's commercial paper program under which there was $0 outstanding at both
May 31, 1997 and 1996.
 
    Dividends per share of common stock for fiscal 1997 rose $.09 over fiscal
1996 to $.38 per share. Dividend declaration in all four quarters has been
consistent since February 1984. Based upon current projected earnings and cash
flow requirements, the Company anticipates continuing a dividend and reviewing
its amount at the November Board of Directors meeting. The Company's policy
continues to target an annual dividend in the range of 15% to 25% of trailing
twelve-month earnings.
 
    During fiscal 1994, the Company announced that the Executive Committee of
its Board of Directors, acting within limits set by the Board, authorized a plan
to repurchase a maximum of $450 million NIKE Class B Common Stock over a period
of up to three years. During fiscal 1996, the Board of Directors voted to extend
the 1994 stock repurchase program until July 1, 1999. Funding has, and is
expected to continue to, come from operating cash flow in combination with
occasional short or medium-term borrowings. The timing and the amount of shares
purchased will be dictated by working capital needs and stock market conditions.
The Company did not repurchase any shares during fiscal 1997 and, as of May 31,
1997, the Company had repurchased 20.6 million shares at a total cost of $301.7
million.
 
    Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
    Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from
time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases,
conferences, or otherwise, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act").
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may
predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or
achievements, and may contain the words "believe," "anticipate," "expect,"
"estimate," "project," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or
words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the
forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time
to time in reports filed by NIKE with the S.E.C., including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and
10-K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and
local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall
athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among
designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel,
and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in
consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products,
and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; the size, timing
and mix of purchases of NIKE's products; fluctuations and difficulty in
forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that
advance "futures" orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the
changing mix of futures and at-once orders; the ability of NIKE to sustain,
manage or forecast its growth; new product development and introduction; the
ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual
property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse
publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on
distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and
transportation to meet delivery deadlines; changes in business strategy or
development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the
United States, including, without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and
political instability; changes in government regulations;
 

liability and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and
retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by
reference in this report and other reports. The risks included here are not
exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which
could adversely impact NIKE's business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE
operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk
factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to
predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk
factors on NIKE's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in
any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
actual results.
 

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
    Management of NIKE, Inc. is responsible for the information and
representations contained in this report. The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles we
considered appropriate in the circumstances and include some amounts based on
our best estimates and judgments. Other financial information in this report is
consistent with these financial statements.
 
    The Company's accounting systems include controls designed to reasonably
assure that assets are safeguarded from unauthorized use or disposition and
which provide for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. These systems are supplemented by the
selection and training of qualified financial personnel and an organizational
structure providing for appropriate segregation of duties.
 
    An Internal Audit department reviews the results of its work with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors, presently consisting of three outside
directors of the Company. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to
the Board of Directors the appointment of the independent accountants and
reviews with the independent accountants, management and the internal audit
staff, the scope and the results of the annual examination, the effectiveness of
the accounting control system and other matters relating to the financial
affairs of the Company as they deem appropriate. The independent accountants and
the internal auditors have full access to the Committee, with and without the
presence of management, to discuss any appropriate matters.
 

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
Portland, Oregon
June 27, 1997
To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of NIKE, Inc.
 
    In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements listed in
the index appearing under Item 14(a)(1) and (2) on page 36 present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of NIKE, Inc. and its subsidiaries
at May 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 1997, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.
 
            [LOGO]
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
 
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION:
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated. Prior to fiscal year 1997, certain of the Company's
non-U.S. operations reported their results of operations on a one month lag
which allowed more time to compile results. Beginning in the first quarter of
fiscal year 1997, the one month lag was eliminated. As a result, the May 1996
charge from operations for these entities of $4,093,000 was recorded to retained
earnings in the first quarter of the current year.
 
RECOGNITION OF REVENUES:
 
    Revenues recognized include sales plus fees earned on sales by licensees.
 
ADVERTISING:
 
    Advertising production costs are expensed the first time the advertisement
is run. Media (TV and print) placement costs are expensed in the month the
advertising appears. Total advertising and promotion expenses were $978,251,000,
$642,498,000 and $495,006,000 for the years ended May 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Included in prepaid expenses and other assets was $111,925,000 and
$69,340,000 at May 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, relating to prepaid
advertising and promotion expenses.
 
CASH AND EQUIVALENTS:
 
    Cash and equivalents represent cash and short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities three months or less.
 
INVENTORY VALUATION:
 
    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all U.S.
inventories. Non-U.S. inventories are valued on a first-in, first-out (FIFO)
basis.
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION:
 
    Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation for
financial reporting purposes is determined on a straight-line basis for
buildings and leasehold improvements and principally on a declining balance
basis for machinery and equipment, based upon estimated useful lives ranging
from two to thirty years.
 
IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL:
 
    At May 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had patents, trademarks and other
identifiable intangible assets with a value of $219,186,000 and $209,586,000,
respectively. The Company's excess of purchase cost over the fair value of net
assets of businesses acquired (goodwill) was $326,252,000 and $327,555,000 at
May 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: (CONTINUED)
    Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are being amortized over their
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over five to forty years.
Accumulated amortization was $81,247,000 and $62,329,000 at May 31, 1997 and
1996, respectively.
 
    Amortization expense, which is included in other income/expense, was
$19,765,000, $21,772,000 and $13,176,000 for the years ended May 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively. Intangible assets are periodically reviewed by the
Company for impairments where the fair value is less than the carrying value.
 
OTHER LIABILITIES:
 
    Other liabilities include amounts with settlement dates beyond one year, and
are primarily composed of long-term deferred endorsement payments of $15,815,000
and $21,674,000 at May 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Deferred payments to
endorsers relate to amounts due beyond contract termination, which are
discounted at various interest rates and accrued over the contract period.
 
ENDORSEMENT CONTRACTS:
 
    Accounting for endorsement contracts is based upon specific contract
provisions. Generally, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the term
of the contract after giving recognition to periodic performance compliance
provisions of the contracts. Contracts requiring prepayments are included in
prepaid expenses or other assets depending on the length of the contract.
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION:
 
    Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial
statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation
adjustment in shareholders' equity.
 
DERIVATIVES:
 
    The Company enters into foreign currency contracts in order to reduce the
impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations. Firmly committed transactions
and the related receivables and payables may be hedged with forward exchange
contracts or purchased options. Anticipated, but not yet firmly committed,
transactions may be hedged through the use of purchased options. Premiums paid
on purchased options and any gains are included in prepaid expenses or accrued
liabilities and are recognized in earnings when the transaction being hedged is
recognized. Gains and losses arising from foreign currency forward and option
contracts, and cross-currency swap transactions are recognized in income or
expense as offsets of gains and losses resulting from the underlying hedged
transactions. Cash flows from risk management activities are classified in the
same category as the cash flows from the related investment, borrowing or
foreign exchange activity. See Note 14 for further discussion.
 
INCOME TAXES:
 
    Income taxes are provided currently on financial statement earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries expected to be repatriated. The Company intends to
determine annually the amount of undistributed non-U.S. earnings to invest
indefinitely in its non-U.S. operations.
 
    The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method.
This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets
for the expected future tax consequences of temporary
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: (CONTINUED)
differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of other assets and
liabilities. See Note 6 for further discussion.
 
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE:
 
    Net income per common share is computed based on the weighted average number
of common and common equivalent (stock option) shares outstanding for the
periods reported.
 
    On October 23, 1996 and October 30, 1995, the Company issued additional
shares in connection with two-for-one stock splits effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend on outstanding Class A and Class B common stock. The per
common share amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying
notes have been adjusted to reflect these stock splits.
 
MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES:
 
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, including
estimates relating to assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
 
RECLASSIFICATIONS:
 
    Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 1997
presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of
operations or shareholders' equity.
 
NOTE 2--INVENTORIES
 
    Inventories by major classification are as follows:
 

 
    The excess of replacement cost over LIFO cost was $20,716,000 at May 31,
1997, and $16,023,000 at May 31, 1996.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 3--PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:
 
    Property, plant and equipment includes the following:
 

 
    Capitalized interest expense was $2,765,000, $858,000 and $261,000 for the
fiscal years ended May 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 respectively.
 
NOTE 4--SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT LINES
 
    Notes payable to banks and interest bearing accounts payable to Nissho Iwai
American Corporation NIAC) are summarized below:
 

 
    The Company has outstanding loans at interest rates at various spreads above
the banks' cost of funds for financing non-U.S. national operations. Certain of
these loans can be secured by accounts receivable and inventory.
 
    The Company purchases through Nissho Iwai American Corporation ("NIAC")
substantially all of the athletic footwear and apparel it acquires from non-U.S.
suppliers. Accounts payable to NIAC are generally due up to 120 days after
shipment of goods from the foreign port. Interest on such accounts payable
accrues at the ninety day London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as of the
beginning of the month of the invoice date, plus .30%.
 
    At May 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under
its $500 million unsecured multiple option facility with ten banks, which
matures on October 31, 2001. This agreement contains optional borrowing
alternatives consisting of a committed revolving loan facility and a competitive
bid facility. The interest rate charged on this agreement is determined by the
borrowing option and, under the committed revolving loan facility, is either the
LIBOR plus .19% or the higher of the Fed Funds rate
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 4--SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT LINES (CONTINUED)
plus .50% or the Prime Rate. The agreement provides for annual fees of .07% of
the total commitment. Under the agreement, the Company must maintain, among
other things, certain minimum specified financial ratios with which the Company
was in compliance at May 31, 1997.
 
    Ratings for the Company to issue commercial paper, which is required to be
supported by committed and uncommitted lines of credit, are A1 by Standard and
Poor's Corporation and P1 by Moody's Investor Service. There were no amounts
outstanding at May 31, 1997 or May 31, 1996 under these arrangements.
 
NOTE 5--LONG-TERM DEBT
 
    Long-term debt includes the following:
 

 
    In December of 1996, the Company filed a $500 million shelf registration
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and issued $200 million seven-year
notes, maturing December 1, 2003. The proceeds were subsequently exchanged for
Dutch Guilders and loaned to a European subsidiary. Interest on the loan is paid
semi-annually. The Company entered into swap transactions reducing the effective
interest rate to 5.64% as well as to hedge the foreign currency exposure related
to the repayment of the intercompany loan. In June of 1997, the Company issued
an additional $100 million medium term notes under this program with maturities
of June 16, 2000 and June 17, 2002.
 
    In June of 1996, the Company's Japanese subsidiary borrowed 10.5 billion yen
in a private placement with a maturity of June 26, 2011. Interest is paid
semi-annually. The agreement provides for early retirement after year ten.
 
    The Company's long-term debt ratings are A+ by Standard and Poor's
Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investor Service. Amounts of long-term maturities
in each of the five fiscal years 1998 through 2002, respectively, are
$2,216,000, $1,891,000, $2,187,000, $188,000 and $47,000.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES
 
    Income before incoming taxes and the provision for income taxes are as
follows:
 

 
    During fiscal 1994 the Company permanently reinvested approximately
$56,000,000 of its undistributed non-U.S.earnings in certain subsidiaries.
 
    A benefit has been recognized for foreign loss carry forwards of
$138,500,000 and $96,600,000 at May 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, which have
no expiration. As of May 31, 1997, the Company has utilized all foreign tax
credits.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following:
 

 
    A reconcillation form the U.S. statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate follows:
 

 
NOTE 7--REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK
 
    NIAC is the sole owner of the Company's authorized Redeemable Preferred
Stock, $1 par value, which is redeemable at the option of NIAC at par value
aggregating $300,000. A cumulative dividend of $.10 per share is payable
annually on May 31 and no dividends may be declared or paid on the Common Stock
of the Company unless dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock have been
declared and paid in full. There have been no changes in the Redeemable
Preferred Stock in the three years ended May 31, 1997. As the holder of the
Redeemable Preferred Stock, NIAC does not have general voting rights but does
have the right to vote as a separate class on the sale of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, on merger, consolidation,
liquidation or dissolution of the Company or on the sale or assignment of the
NIKE trademark for athletic footwear sold in the United States.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8--COMMON STOCK
 
    The authorized number of shares of Class A Common Stock no par value and
Class B Common Stock no par value are 110,000,000 and 350,000,000, respectively.
The Company announced a two-for-one stock split which was effected in the form
of a 100% stock dividend on outstanding Class A and Class B Common Stock, paid
October 23, 1996. In the previous year a similar two-for-one stock split was
announced, paid October 30, 1995. Each share of Class A Common Stock is
convertible into one share of Class B Common Stock. Voting rights of Class B
Common Stock are limited in certain circumstances with respect to the election
of directors.
 
    The Company's Employee Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1980 Plan") was
adopted in 1980 and expired on December 31, 1990. The 1980 Plan provided for the
issuance of up to 13,440,000 shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock in
connection with the exercise of stock options granted under such plan. No
further grants will be made under the 1980 Plan.
 
    In 1990, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, the
NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1990 Plan"). The 1990 Plan provides
for the issuance of up to 16,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock in
connection with stock options and other awards granted under such plan. The 1990
Plan authorizes the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock
options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, and the sale of restricted
stock. The exercise price for incentive stock options may not be less than the
fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The exercise
price for non-statutory stock options and stock appreciation rights, and the
purchase price of restricted stock, may not be less than 75% of the fair market
value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. No consideration will be
paid for stock bonuses awarded under the 1990 Plan. The 1990 Plan is
administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. The committee has the
authority to determine the employees to whom awards will be made, the amount of
the awards, and the other terms and conditions of the awards. As of May 31,
1997, the committee has granted substantially all non-statutory stock options at
100% of fair market value on the date of grant under the 1990 Plan.
 
    In addition to the option plans discussed above, the Company has several
agreements outside of the plans with certain directors, endorsers and employees.
As of May 31, 1997, 7,754,000 options with exercise prices ranging from $0.417
per share to $53.625 per share had been granted. The aggregate compensation
expenses related to these agreements is $9,530,000 and is being amortized over
vesting periods from October 1980 through September 2000. The outstanding
agreements expire from December 1998 through September 2006.
 
    During 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 123,
"Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," which defines a fair value method of
accounting for an employee stock option or similar equity instrument and
encouraged, but does not require, all entities to adopt that method of
accounting. Entities electing not to adopt the fair value method of accounting
must make pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share, as if the
fair value based method of accounting defined in this statement has been
applied.
 
    The Company has elected not to adopt the fair value method; however, as
required by SFAS 123, the Company has computed for pro forma disclosure purposes
the value of options granted during fiscal years 1997 and 1996 using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average assumptions used for
stock option grants for 1997 and 1996 were a dividend yield of 1%, expected
volatility of the market price of the Company's common stock of 30%, a
weighted-average expected life of the options of approximately
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8--COMMON STOCK (CONTINUED)
five years, and interest rates of 6.42 and 6.56 for fiscal 1997 and 5.92 and
5.97 for fiscal 1996. These interest rates are reflective of option grant dates
made throughout the year.
 
    Options were assumed to be exercised over the 5 year expected life for
purposes of this valuation. Adjustments for forfeitures are made as they occur.
For the years ended May 31, 1997 and 1996, the total value of the options
granted, for which no previous expense has been recognized, was computed as
approximately $29,074,000 and $18,167,000, respectively, which would be
amortized on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the options. The
weighted average fair value per share of the options granted in 1997 and 1996
are $17.39 and $7.15, respectively.
 
    If the Company had accounted for these stock options issued to employees in
accordance with SFAS 123, the Company's net income and pro forma net income and
net income per share and pro forma net income per share would have been reported
as follows:
 

 
    The pro forma effects of applying SFAS 123 may not be representative of the
effects on reported net income and earnings per share for future years since
options vest over several years and additional awards are made each year.
 
    The following summarizes the stock option transactions under plans discussed
above (adjusted for all applicable stock splits):
 

 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8--COMMON STOCK (CONTINUED)
    The following table sets forth the exercise prices, the number of options
outstanding and exercisable, and the remaining contractual lives of the
Company's stock options at May 31, 1997:
 

 
NOTE 9--BENEFIT PLANS:
 
    The Company has a profit sharing plan available to substantially all
employees. The terms of the plan call for annual contributions by the Company as
determined by the Board of Directors. Contributions of $18,500,000, $15,500,000
and $11,200,000 to the plan are included in other expense in the consolidated
financial statements for the years ended May 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
    The Company has a voluntary 401(k) employee savings plan. The Company
matches with Common Stock a portion of employee contributions, vesting that
portion over 5 years. Company contributions to the savings plan were $6,349,000,
$4,660,000 and $3,363,000 for the years ended May 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
NOTE 10--OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE, NET:
 
    Included in other income/expense for the years ended May 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995, is interest income of $20,089,000, $16,083,000 and $26,094,000,
respectively. During the year, the Company's subsidiary, Bauer Inc, recognized a
one-time restructuring charge of $18,096,000 for a plan which includes, among
other things, moving certain products to offshore production and the closing of
certain facilities. The Company recognized $11,412,000 in non-recurring specific
obligations associated with the shutdown of certain facilities in conjunction
with the consolidation of European warehouses for the year ended May 31, 1995.
 
NOTE 11--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:
 
    The Company leases space for its offices, warehouses and retail stores under
leases expiring from one to twenty years after May 31, 1997. Rent expense
aggregated $84,109,000, $52,483,000 and $43,506,000 for the years ended May 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Amounts of minimum future annual rental
commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in each of the five fiscal
years 1998 through 2002 are $76,319,000, $65,315,000, $53,776,000, $46,125,000,
$42,274,000, respectively, and $326,198,000 in later years.
 
    Lawsuits arise during the normal course of business. In the opinion of
management, none of the pending lawsuits will result in a significant impact on
the consolidated results of operations or financial position.
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 12--ACQUISITION OF BAUER INC.:
 
    During the third quarter of fiscal 1995, NIKE acquired all the outstanding
shares of Bauer Inc. (formerly Canstar Sports Inc.), the world's largest hockey
equipment manufacturer. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting. The cash purchase price, including acquisition costs, was
approximately $409 million.
 
    Bauer's assets and liabilities have been recorded in the Company's
consolidated balance sheet at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill relating to the purchase
approximated $336 million with estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 40
years. The amortization period is based on the Company's belief that the
combined company has substantial potential for achieving long-term appreciation
of the fully integrated global company. Bauer will permit the continued
expansion of the current lines of business, as well as the development of new
businesses, which can be used to strategically exploit the companies' brand
names and products on an accelerated basis. NIKE believes that the combined
company will benefit from the acquisition for an indeterminable period of time
of at least 40 years and that therefore a 40-year amortization period is
appropriate. The proforma effect of the acquisition on the combined results of
operations in fiscal 1995 was not significant.
 
NOTE 13--FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
 
    The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheet for cash
and equivalents and notes payable approximate fair value as reported in the
balance sheet because of their short maturities. The fair value of long-term
debt is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the Company's
incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. The
fair value of the Company's long-term debt, including current portion, is
approximately $295,863,000, compared to a carrying value of $298,236,000 at May
31, 1997 and $16,840,000, compared to a carrying value of $16,885,000 at May 31,
1996. See Note 14 for fair value of derivatives.
 
NOTE 14--FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES:
 
    The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect the Company from the risk that the eventual dollar cash flows resulting
from the sale and purchase of products in foreign currencies will be adversely
affected by changes in exchange rates. In addition, the Company seeks to manage
the impact of foreign currency fluctuations related to the repayment of
intercompany borrowings. The Company does not hold or issue financial
instruments for trading purposes. It is the Company's policy to utilize
derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign exchange risks where internal
netting strategies cannot be effectively employed. Fluctuations in the value of
hedging instruments are offset by fluctuations in the value of the underlying
exposures being hedged.
 
    The Company uses forward exchange contracts and purchased options to hedge
certain firm purchases and sales commitments and the related receivables and
payables including other third party or intercompany foreign currency
transactions. Purchased currency options are used to hedge certain anticipated
but not yet firmly committed transactions expected to be recognized within one
year. Cross-currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency denominated
payments related to intercompany loan agreements. Hedged transactions are
denominated primarily in European currencies, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar.
Premiums paid on purchased options and any realized gains are included in
prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities and recognized in earnings when the
transaction being hedged is recognized. Deferred option premiums paid, net of
realized gains, were $14,500,000 and $5,100,000 at May 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Gains and losses related to hedges of firmly committed
transactions and the related
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 14--FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES: (CONTINUED)
receivables and payables are deferred and are recognized in income or as
adjustments of carrying amounts when the offsetting gains and losses are
recognized on the hedged transaction. Net realized and unrealized gains on
forward contracts deferred at May 31, 1997 and 1996 were $28,000,000 and
$20,700,000, respectively.
 
    The estimated fair values of derivatives used to hedge the Company's risks
will fluctuate over time. The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is
estimated by obtaining quoted market prices. The fair value of option contracts
is estimated using option pricing models widely used in the financial markets.
These fair value amounts should not be viewed in isolation, but rather in
relation to the fair values of the underlying hedged transactions and the
overall reduction in the Company's exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. The notional amounts of derivatives summarized below do not
necessarily represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not a
direct measure of the exposure to the Company through its use of derivatives.
The amounts exchanged are calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and
the other terms of the derivatives, which relate to interest rates, exchange
rates or other financial indices.
 
    The following table presents the aggregate notional principal amounts,
carrying values and fair values of the Company's derivative financial
instruments outstanding at May 31, 1997 and 1996.
 

 
    At May 31, 1997 and May 31, 1996, the Company had no contracts outstanding
with maturities beyond one year except the currency swaps which have maturity
dates consistent with the maturity dates of the related debt. All realized
gains/losses deferred at May 31, 1997 will be recognized within one year.
 
    The counterparties to derivative transactions are major financial
institutions with investment grade or better credit ratings and, additionally,
counterparties to derivatives three years or greater are all AAA rated. However,
this does not eliminate the Company's exposure to credit risk with these
institutions. This credit risk is generally limited to the unrealized gains in
such contracts should any of these counterparties fail to perform as contracted
and is immaterial to any one institution at May 31, 1997 and 1996. To manage
this risk, the Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines
which are continually monitored and reported to Senior Management according to
prescribed guidelines. The Company utilizes a portfolio of financial
institutions either headquartered or operating in the same countries the Company
conducts its business. As a result, the Company considers the risk of
counterparty default to be minimal.
 
NOTE 15--INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREAS:
 
    The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment, that being the
design, production, marketing and selling of sports and fitness footwear,
apparel and accessories. During 1997, 1996 and 1995,
 

                                   NIKE, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 15--INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREAS: (CONTINUED)
sales to one major customer amounted to approximately 12%, 12% and 14% of total
sales, respectively. The geographic distributions of the Company's identifiable
assets, operating income and revenues are summarized in the following table.

 

                                    PART III
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
    There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with
accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial
statement disclosure required to be reported under this Item.
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission its
definitive proxy statement dated August 13, 1997 for the annual meeting of
shareholders to be held on September 22, 1997. The information required by this
Item with respect to the Company's directors is incorporated herein by reference
from pages 3 through 6, and 8 through 10 of such proxy statement. Information
called for by this Item with respect to the Company's executive officers is set
forth under "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Item 1 of this Report.
 
    The information required by Items 11-13 of Part III is incorporated herein
by reference from the indicated pages of the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement dated August 13, 1997 for its 1997 annual meeting of shareholders.
 
PROXY
 

 
                                    PART IV
 

 
    (A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:
 

 
    All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
 

    3.  EXHIBITS:
 

 


 
- ------------------------
 
*   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
    Upon written request to Investor Relations, NIKE, Inc., One Bowerman Drive,
Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453, the Company will furnish share-holders with a copy
of any Exhibit upon payment of $.10 per page, which represents the Company's
reasonable expenses in furnishing such Exhibits.
 
    (B) The following reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the
last quarter of fiscal 1997:
 

 

                                 SCHEDULE VIII
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                                      F-1

                                  SCHEDULE IX
 
                            SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS(1)
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
Notes:
 
(1) For information pertaining to the general terms of short-term borrowings,
    see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(2) Represents the maximum amount of short-term borrowing outstanding at a
    month-end during the respective period.
 
(3) The average amount outstanding during the period is calculated by dividing
    the total of principal outstanding at each month-end by 12. The weighted
    average interest rate during the period is calculated by dividing the
    interest expense for the year by the average amount outstanding.
 
(4) NIAC refers to Nissho Iwai American Corporation, a subsidiary of Nissho Iwai
    Corporation, a Japanese trading company.
 
                                      F-2

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
    We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the documents listed
below, of our report dated June 27, 1997, which appears on Page 18 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K:
 
    1.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-8 (No. 2-81419);
 
    2.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-8 (No. 33-29262);
 
    3.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-3 (No. 33-43205);
 
    4.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-3 (No. 33-48977);
 
    5.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-3 (No. 33-41842);
 
    6.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-8 (No. 33-63995); and
 
    7.  Prospectus constituting part of the NIKE, Inc. Registration Statement on
       Form S-3 (No. 333-15953).
 
                                          Price Waterhouse LLP
 
Portland, Oregon
August 29, 1997
 
                                      F-3

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                                 NIKE, INC.
 
Date:  August 29, 1997                            By:    /s/ PHILIP H. KNIGHT
 
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                        PHILIP H. KNIGHT,
                                                    CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND
                                                     CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 
                                      S-1


 
                                      S-2

