Item 1. Business

Company Overview

We are the world’s largest provider of biopharmaceutical development services and commercial outsourcing services. We are positioned at the intersection of business services and healthcare and generated $4.3 billion of service revenues in 2015, conduct business in approximately 100 countries and have approximately 36,100 employees. We use the breadth and depth of our service offerings, our global footprint and our therapeutic, scientific and analytics expertise to help our biopharmaceutical customers, as well as other healthcare customers, to be more successful in an increasingly complex healthcare environment.

We were founded in 1982 by Dennis B. Gillings, CBE, Ph.D., who was a biostatistics professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Gillings and his cofounder pioneered the use of sophisticated statistical algorithms to improve the quality of data used to determine the efficacy of various drug therapies. We expanded internationally into Europe in 1987 and into Asia in 1993. In 1994, we completed an initial public offering, or IPO, and in 2003 we exited the public markets through a going private transaction. In May 2013, we returned to the public markets by completing an IPO on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE.

We are a leader in the development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical therapies. Our Product Development segment is the world’s largest contract research organization, or CRO, based upon the most recently available public information of reported service revenues, and is focused primarily on Phase II-IV clinical trials and associated laboratory and analytical activities. Our Integrated Healthcare Services segment includes one of the leading global commercial pharmaceutical sales and service organizations, in addition to healthcare business services for the broader healthcare sector, such as real world and late phase research, market access and consulting, health information analytics and technology consulting, and other healthcare solutions. Product Development contributed approximately 74% and Integrated Healthcare Services contributed approximately 26% to our 2015 service revenues. Additional information regarding our segments is presented in Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our global scale and capabilities enable us to work with the leading companies in the biopharmaceutical sector. During each of the last 13 years, we have worked with the 20 largest biopharmaceutical companies ranked by 2014 reported revenues. We have provided services in connection with the development or commercialization of 98 of the top 100 best-selling biopharmaceutical products and the top 50 best-selling biologic products, from 2014 as measured by reported sales.

In 2015, our service revenues were $4.3 billion and our net income attributable to our shareholders was $387.2 million. In addition, our 2015 net new business was $5.3 billion, and we ended the year with $12.0 billion in backlog. Our backlog at December 31, 2015 was diversified with 28% from top 10 biopharmaceutical companies, 23% with biopharmaceutical companies ranked as 11-20, 24% with biopharmaceutical companies ranked as 21-50, and 25% with biopharmaceutical companies outside the top 50, in each case, as ranked by 2014 sales. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Net New Business Reporting and Backlog” for more detail. During each of the last eight years, we have had at least eight customers from whom we earned more than $100 million in service revenues. No single customer represented more than 10% of our 2015 revenues.

Our Markets

The market served by Product Development consists primarily of biopharmaceutical companies, including medical device and diagnostics companies, that outsource services associated with the development of pharmaceutical products, such as clinical trials. We estimate that total research and development spending was approximately $143 billion in 2015 of which biopharmaceutical spending on drug development was approximately $97 billion, and we estimate that our addressable market (clinical development spending excluding preclinical spending) was approximately $54 billion. The portion of this $54 billion that was outsourced in 2015, based on our estimates, was approximately $22 billion. We estimate, based on industry data, analysis, and our own estimates, that the potential market for Product Development’s services should experience a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 6%-8% from 2015 through 2018 as a result of the increased outsourcing of research and development spending by biopharmaceutical companies in addition to increases over time in this overall spending as compared to 2014.






Integrated Healthcare Services primarily addresses markets related to the use of approved biopharmaceutical products. We estimate that total spending related to approved drugs, including biopharmaceutical spending on commercialization of these drugs and expenditures by participants in the broader healthcare market on real-world research, healthcare technology implementation analytics, and evidence-based medicine, exceeded $101 billion in 2015. Integrated Healthcare Services links product development to healthcare delivery. This segment’s services include commercial services such as recruiting, training, deploying and managing a global sales force, channel management, patient engagement services, market access consulting, brand communication, advisory services, and health information analytics and technology consulting. In addition, Integrated Healthcare Services offers real-world late phase services such as observational studies, comparative effectiveness studies and product and disease registry services, which are intended to help increase the quality and cost-effectiveness of healthcare and payer provider solutions. We believe that a combination of cost pressure in healthcare systems around the world and the increasing focus on the value and efficacy of pharmaceutical therapy provide us many opportunities to grow our revenues and expand our service offerings by improving the cost-effectiveness of drug therapies.

We believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from current trends in the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries that affect our markets, including:

Trends in Research and Development Spending.We estimate that research and development spending was approximately $143 billion in 2015 and will grow to approximately $155 billion in 2018, with drug development accounting for approximately 68% of total expenditures. Research and development spending trends are impacted as a result of several factors, including major biopharmaceutical companies’ efforts to replenish revenues lost from the so-called “patent cliff” of recent years, increased access to capital by the small and midcap biotechnology industry, and recent increases in pharmaceutical approvals by regulatory authorities. In 2015, there were approximately 5,084 drugs in the Phase I-III development pipeline, an increase of 36% since 2010, and there were 45 new molecular entities approvals by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, which was the highest number of approvals in any of the past 19 years. We believe that further research and development spending, combined with the continued need for cost efficiency across the healthcare landscape, will continue to create opportunities for biopharmaceutical services companies, particularly those with a global reach and broad service offerings, to help biopharmaceutical companies with their pre- and post-launch product development and commercialization needs.

We estimate that clinical development spending outsourced to CROs in Phases I-IV in 2015 was approximately $22 billion and will grow to approximately $28 billion by 2018. We expect outsourced clinical development to CROs to grow 6%-8% annually during this period, and believe this annual growth will be driven largely by increased outsourcing penetration, with up to 2% of this growth coming from increased research and development expenditures over 2015 to 2018. In estimating these growth rates, we monitor the ability of biopharmaceutical companies, including biotechnology companies, to raise capital, as well as the potential impact from merger and acquisition activity between biopharmaceutical companies. We estimate that overall outsourcing penetration of the addressable market in 2015 was 41%. The market served by Integrated Healthcare Services is diverse, which makes it difficult to estimate the current amount of outsourced integrated healthcare services and the expected growth in such services. However, based on our knowledge of these markets we believe that, while the rate of outsourcing penetration varies by market within Integrated Healthcare Services, the current outsourcing penetration of the estimated $101 billion market is approximately 23%. As business models continue to evolve in the healthcare sector, we believe that the growth rate for outsourcing across the Integrated Healthcare Services markets will be similar to the growth in clinical development.

We believe that we are well positioned for the future evolution of the healthcare sector as increasing demand from governments and other payers around the world for quality, accountability and value for money drive biopharmaceutical companies, providers and other healthcare organizations to transform their value chain away from a vertically integrated model to one that is more focused on their core competencies. In particular, we believe that the following trends will result in increased outsourcing to global biopharmaceutical services companies:

·Maximizing Productivity and Lowering Costs.Declining research and development productivity, increased development costs and diminished returns on marketing and sales have negatively impacted biopharmaceutical companies. We believe that the need for biopharmaceutical companies to maximize productivity and lower costs in their product development and commercial operations will cause them to look to partners as they enter into outsourcing arrangements to improve efficiency, increase sales force utilization and effectiveness, improve clinical success rates and turn fixed costs into variable costs across their research and development and commercial operations.

·Managing Complexity.Biopharmaceutical companies face environments in which it has become increasingly difficult to operate. Improved standards of care in many therapeutic areas and the emergence of new types of therapies, such as biologics, genetically targeted therapies, gene and stem cell therapies, and other treatment modalities have led to more complex development and regulatory pathways, such as recently released guidelines in the United States and Europe for the development of “biosimilar” products. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities, including our expertise in biomarkers and genomics and our global laboratory network, position us well to help biopharmaceutical companies manage the complexities inherent in an environment where this type of expertise is important.






·Providing Enhanced Value forPatients.As healthcare costs rise globally, governments and third-party payers have looked for ways both to control healthcare expenditures and increase the quality, safety and effectiveness of drug therapies. Governments and regulatory bodies have adopted, and may continue to adopt, healthcare legislation and regulations that may significantly impact the healthcare industry by demanding more value for money spent and financial accountability for patient outcomes. Such legislation and regulations may tiereimbursement to the demonstrated clinical efficacy of a therapy, require payers and providers to demonstrate efficacy in the delivery of healthcare services and require more evidence-based decisions, all of which we believe will increase the demand for innovative and cost-effective commercialization strategies and outcome research and data analytics services.

·Increased Importance of Product Development in Local Markets.Increasingly, regulators require clinical trials involving local populations as part of the process for approving new pharmaceutical products, especially in certain Asian and emerging markets. Understanding the epidemiological and physiological differences in different ethnic populations and being able to conduct clinical trials locally in certain geographies will be important to pharmaceutical product growth strategies, both for multinational and local/regional biopharmaceutical companies. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities and unmatched presence in Asia and other emerging markets make us a strong partner for biopharmaceutical companies managing the complexities of international drug development.

·Increasing Number of Phase II-IV Clinical Trials.Based on the current and expected composition of the global drug development pipeline, we believe that spending on Phase II-IV clinical trials will continue to increase. As the complexity and cost of Phase II-IV clinical trials grow, clinical trial sponsors will continue to seek to recruit patients on a global basis. We believe that this increased spending and the demand for global patient recruitment will favor the limited number of biopharmaceutical services companies that have both the capabilities to administer large, complex global clinical trials and relationships with thought-leading investigators and clinical trial sites. In addition, as these drugs come to market, we believe that biopharmaceutical companies will also seek to outsource an increasing amount of the commercial and other integrated healthcare services necessary to effectively launch and market these drugs.

·Increase in Strategic Collaborations.Larger CROs are able to provide a greater variety of services and therapeutic expertise to the biopharmaceutical community. Biopharmaceutical companies continue to enter into long-term strategic collaborations with global service providers. We believe that biopharmaceutical companies have historically preferred, and will continue to prefer, financially sound, global service providers with broad therapeutic and functional expertise such as our company when selecting strategic providers.

Our Strategy

We believe that we are positioned to be the partner of choice to biopharmaceutical companies worldwide and a key resource to other healthcare industry participants who are looking to improve operational, therapeutic and patient outcomes. We differentiate ourselves from others in our industry through our competitive strengths and strategies, which include:

Broad, Deep and Diverse Relationships.We believe that the breadth and depth of our service offerings allow us to establish and develop relationships with key decision makers throughout our customers’ organizations. During each of the last 13 years, we have worked with the 20 largest biopharmaceutical companies, as measured by their respective 2014 reported revenues. In 2015, we had 13 customers from whom we earned at least $100 million in service revenues. We also work with over 550 small, mid-size and other biopharmaceutical companies outside the 20 largest by revenues. We also have broad, deep and diverse relationships with clinics, large hospitals and health systems through which we have access to thousands of investigators and other providers worldwide. We intend to leverage our strong relationships to assist our customers as they seek to reduce and variabilize their cost structures while increasing their probability of product success.






Therapeutic and Scientific Expertise.We believe our deep scientific, therapeutic and domain expertise enables us to help customers solve the complex challenges inherent in drug development and commercialization. We also believe that the breadth of our expertise, from expert consulting to data-driven planning and design, enables us to help biopharmaceutical companies improve operational efficiency and outcomes. We have continued to invest in developing world-class scientific capabilities underpinned with a focus on delivering consistent, high-quality services to our customers throughout the world. We have a strong therapeutic focus on oncology, cardiovascular, central nervous system, diabetes and internal medicine as these five therapeutic areas represent more than 70% of the total biopharmaceutical product pipeline in 2015 and are generally highly complex and require significant scientific expertise and global scale. Our employees have substantial scientific, quantitative, analytical and applied technology skills and substantial expertise in numerous therapeutic areas, with over 3,000 Ph.D.s, medical doctors, statisticians and statistical programmers on our staff worldwide.

Integrated Services to Enable Better Decision-making in the Broader Healthcare Market.We believe that sustainable and growing revenue can be achieved through differentiation of services, coupled with deeper and broader relationships and a commitment to structuring flexible and innovative solutions to meet the diversified and changing needs of the healthcare industry. We use our extensive scope of services to design innovative and flexible solutions tailored for our customers’ needs in an increasingly complex environment. Our core market is product development, and we have deep and global expertise across the phases of this market from first-in-man clinical trials through post-marketing studies. Our services are designed to provide integrated solutions that address the complex challenges faced by a broad range of healthcare industry participants. We believe that our significant capabilities in analytics, clinical science and real-world data, combined with our broad commercial, consulting and post-launch expertise, will enable us to meet the research and analytical needs of healthcare industry participants from the development and commercialization organizations within traditional and emerging biopharmaceutical companies to the broader healthcare market, including the needs of payers and providers to measure the value of various treatments and patient outcomes.

Experienced, Highly Trained Management and Staff.Our senior management team includes executives with experience from inside and outside the biopharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical services industries who use their decades of experience to serve our customers and grow our company. Each of our executive officers has more than 25 years of experience in large, multinational organizations. Our management and staff are comprised of approximately 36,100 employees worldwide, of whom over 1,100 are medical doctors and approximately 1,050 possess a Ph.D. or equivalent. Our employees contribute to a company-wide culture focused on delivering services and information that meet or exceed the quality standards demanded by customers, doctors, patients and regulatory authorities. At this time, we have over 6,700 contract medical sales representatives, a sales force that is comparable in size to the sales forces of many large biopharmaceutical companies. We strive to maintain a culture that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation which is consistent with our core values and Code of Conduct: Doing the Right Thing.

Technology Solutions and Process/Data Capabilities.For over 33 years, we have been devoted to advancing state of the art technology, processes and analytics to optimize our service offerings and provide our customers with the information they need to quickly make critical decisions regarding the development and commercialization of their products. We have focused on investment in quality data, including de-identified electronic health records, or EHR. Because data are only as good as the analytics used to analyze them, we have also invested heavily in data analytics products, services and professionals. As part of this investment, we created our proprietary data integration tool, the Quintiles Infosario® platform, which is a suite of modules that integrates data from across multiple source systems to provide us and our customers with current, quality and comprehensive information regarding clinical trials, allowing decisions to be made quickly and efficiently. In addition, we have developed a planning and design platform and other software solutions to enable improvements to the drug development process and to demonstrate the value of biopharmaceutical products in the real world.

Our Services

We address the needs of the healthcare industry by providing product development and integrated healthcare services to help our customers navigate the complex healthcare environment and improve outcomes. The broad scope of our services allows us to help our customers rapidly assess the viability of a growing number of potential new therapies, cost-effectively accelerate development of the most promising ones, launch new products to the market quickly, and evaluate their impact and appropriate use on patients.






We offer our services through two reportable segments: Product Development and Integrated Healthcare Services. The figure below displays the range of our services across both of our segments.



Product Development ServicesIntegrated Healthcare ServicesProject Management & Clinical Monitoring:Q2Solutions:Commercial Services:•  Study Design & Operational Planning•  Clinical Trial Laboratories•  Contract Sales•  Investigator/Site Recruitment•  Genomic Laboratories•  Market Entry / Market Exit•  Site & Regulatory Start Up•  Bioanalytical Laboratories•  Integrated Channel Management•  Patient Recruitment•  Patient Engagement Services•  Clinical MonitoringStrategic Planning & Design:•  Market Access & Commercialization Consulting•  Project Management•  Biomarkers, Genomics & Personalized Medicine•  Brand & Scientific Communications•  Late Phase Interventional•  Model Based Drug Development•  Planning & DesignReal-World and Late Phase Research:Clinical Trial Support Services:•  Regulatory Affairs Services•  Observational Studies•  Clinical Data Management•  Product and Disease Registries•  Biostatistical ServicesAdvisory Services:•  Comparative Effectiveness Studies•  Cardiac Safety & ECG Laboratory Services•  Product Development Strategy Consulting•  Safety & Pharmacovigilance Operations•  Regulatory & Compliance ConsultingCommunication and Health•  Phase I Clinical Pharmacology Units•  Process & IT Implementation ConsultingEngagement Services:•  Digital Patient Services•  Brand and Scientific CommunicationsOther Healthcare Solutions:•  Payer & Provider Solutions•  Advisory Services

Product Development

Product Development provides services and expertise that enable biopharmaceutical companies to outsource the clinical development process from first-in-man clinical trials to post-launch monitoring. Product Development is comprised of Clinical Solutions & Services and Consulting. Clinical Solutions & Services provides services necessary to develop biopharmaceutical products, including project management and clinical monitoring functions for conducting multi-site clinical trials (generally Phase II-IV) and clinical trial support services that can improve clinical trial decision-making and data management and strategic planning and design services that can improve decisions and performance. Consulting provides strategy and management consulting services based on deep life science expertise and advanced analytics as well as regulatory and compliance consulting services.

Clinical Solutions & Services

Project Management and Clinical Monitoring

Drawing upon our years of experience, our site databases, our site relationships and our highly trained staff, Clinical Solutions & Services enables the efficient conduct and coordination of multi-site clinical trials (generally Phase II-IV). Clinical Solutions & Services’ service offerings include protocol design, feasibility and operational planning, site start up, patient recruitment, project management and monitoring of the investigator sites and data from patient visits.

Study Design and Operational Planning.We assist our customers in preparing the study protocol, designing clinical report forms and identifying appropriate patients, sites and the optimal country mix to meet their objectives, among other key upfront decisions. The study protocol defines the medical hypotheses to be examined, the number of patients required to produce statistically valid results, the period of time over which they must be tracked, the frequency and dosage of drug administration and the study procedures.

Investigator/Site Recruitment.During clinical trials, the drug is administered to patients by physicians, referred to as investigators, at hospitals, clinics or other sites. The quality of a clinical trial is dependent on the quality of the investigators who perform the clinical trials. Through our global prime site and partner programs, we have established relationships with thousands of investigators who conduct our clinical trials worldwide. We provide our investigators the resources and tools they need to effectively conduct the clinical trials.

Site and Regulatory Start Up.The process of identifying, training and contracting with sites while also securing regulatory and ethics approval is a complex and time-consuming aspect of clinical trials. We have a dedicated unit that draws upon our experience from participating in clinical trials globally across multiple therapeutic areas for over 30 years. We utilize technology and analytics to simplify and streamline this process, reducing time to first patient in and laying the groundwork for successful clinical trial execution.






Patient Recruitment.We assist our customers in recruiting patients for clinical trials through investigator relationships, media advertising, use of web-based techniques and other methods. Wealso help to ensure patients are retained for the duration of the clinical trials. We use informatics tools and media-based recruitment methods to identify, reach and recruit the appropriate patients. Our patient recruitment system includes informatics tools and media-based recruitment methods to provide broad pools of prescreened patients as well as an efficient enrollment process and a call center. Through our global patient recruitment programs, we have enrolled on average over 100,000 patients in PhaseI-III clinical trials annually during the last seven years.

Clinical Monitoring.We deploy and manage clinical research associates, or CRAs, to work with and monitor sites to assure the quality of the data, which we gather according to Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, and International Conference on Harmonisation, or ICH, regulations and guidelines, and to meet the customers’ and regulatory authorities’ requirements according to the study protocol. CRAs also assist with site initiation, training, patient enrollment and retention. Regulatory authorities are encouraging the use of innovative approaches in clinical trial monitoring, and we have deployed targeted, data-driven, risk-based, monitoring techniques to improve monitoring efficiency and effectiveness, focusing on the areas most likely to impact the quality of the data and safety of the patients in their particular clinical trial.

Project Management.Our project managers help customers navigate the complexity of the clinical trial process and coordinate all of the various activities, data streams and timelines associated therewith. Aligned by therapeutic experience, our project managers highlight risks before they become issues, while managing budgets and timelines. As clinical trials become more complex, project managers are becoming increasingly important in ensuring clinical trials are completed successfully.

Clinical Trial Support Services

Each clinical trial requires a number of concurrent services and data streams. We offer a broad range of functional services and consultation to support clinical trials through specialized expertise that help customers efficiently collect, analyze and report the quality data and evidence they need to gain regulatory approval. Our clinical trial support services include:

Clinical Data Management.Our data management services provide support for the collection, organization, validation and analysis of clinical data. Data used can be captured via electronic data capture, or EDC, or from paper. These databases include customized databases to meet customer-specific formats, integrated databases to support regulatory submissions to numerous regulatory authorities around the world, including, for example, to the FDA to support new drug applications, or NDAs, new biological license applications, or BLAs, and premarket approval applications, or PMAs, for medical devices.

Biostatistical Services.We provide statistical analyses of scientific databases for all phases of the drug development process. Biostatistics is at the core of every clinical trial, and we have been pioneering the use of biostatistics since our founding in 1982. We have more than 850 biostatisticians and statistical programmers around the world, of whom approximately 60% have advanced degrees. We use biostatistics to assist our customers in speeding drug development, staying current with evolving best practices, navigating regulatory requirements and developing and qualifying biomarkers.

Cardiac Safety and ECG Laboratory Services.Our centralized electrocardiogram, or ECG, laboratory in India provides continuous global collection and analysis of ECGs by trained cardiologists as part of clinical trials. Our laboratory logs, tracks and analyzes ECGs from around the world, and stores and transmits reports in near real time. We believe that integrating our ECG laboratory capabilities into clinical trials helps customers identify and adjust to cardiac safety signals earlier in the drug development process.

Safety and Pharmacovigilance Operations.Conducting clinical trials requires a dedicated, separate process to collect, analyze and report safety events. We have extensive experience, scale and geographic coverage for case management services. Our safety management system combines our expertise, standard operating procedures and best practices derived from thousands of projects. Underpinned by our technology, we help customers efficiently manage fluctuating case loads, streamline global operations and compliance, and gain better insights into clinical trial operations. We customize our lifecycle safety suite of services to monitor drug safety, including managing case reports, performing safety risk profiling and improving operation efficiency, quality and regulatory compliance.

Phase I Clinical Pharmacology Services.Phase I clinical trials often involve testing a new drug on a limited number of healthy volunteers and patients. For such Phase I clinical trials, we own and operate clinical pharmacology units (Phase I clinics) where we perform the core clinical functions related to these clinical trials, with support from the specialized expertise and functions from other members of Clinical Solutions & Services. Our Phase I clinical trial capabilities include dose ranging, bioavailability/bioequivalence studies, PK/PD modeling, first administration to humans, multiple dose tolerance, dose effect relationship and metabolism studies.






Q2Solutions

We provide our customers globally scaled end-to-end clinical trial laboratory and research services through our majority-owned joint venture with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, which was formed on July 1, 2015. The following clinical trial, genomic, and bioanalytical laboratory service offerings operate within the joint venture which is referred to as Q2Solutions:

Clinical Trial Laboratories.We support the laboratory testing and reporting needs inherent in all phases of clinical trials, offering globally harmonized safety and efficacy biomarker testing through the world’s largest, network of clinical trial laboratories with individual College of American Pathologists accreditations. Services include assay development and validation, the provision of protocol-specific clinical trial materials, customized lab report design, and specimen management and archival. We support clinical trials anywhere in the world through facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, South Africa, India, China, Singapore and Japan, and a tightly coordinated network of affiliated laboratories in Argentina and Brazil. Our global processes and harmonization scheme are designed to help ensure the standardization of laboratory test results and integrated, comparable data collection, management and transfer, including providing direct electronic integration of laboratory data into safety and efficacy reports for NDA submissions.

Genomic Laboratory.We provide a broad range of solutions in support of our customers’ clinical trial and research efforts, including experiment design, sample analysis, nucleic acid isolation, gene expression profiling, genotyping, next generation sequencing and advanced bioinformatics. Our services include whole genome to focused set gene expression profiling and genotyping assays along with DNA and RNA sequencings services, sequence enrichment technologies and bioinformatics support. Our quality system is designed to adhere to Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines, and our Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments, or CLIA, certified laboratory supports good laboratory practice, or GLP, compliance.

Bioanalytical Laboratories.We offer our customers a broad range of GLP and non-GLP bioanalytical testing to support pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic, or PK/PD, studies, and absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination studies in the early phases of clinical testing.

Strategic Planning and Design

Through our strategic planning and design services, we offer consultation services to improve decisions and performance including portfolio, program and protocol planning and design, biomarker consultation, benefit-risk management, regulatory affairs, biostatistics, modeling and simulation, and personalized medicine.

Biomarkers, Genomics and Personalized Medicine.Personalized medicine is an emerging practice of medicine that uses information about a person’s genes, proteins and environment to prevent, diagnose and treat disease. We support biopharmaceutical companies with deep expertise in the complex and groundbreaking efforts in the area of biomarker and genomics research, testing and analysis with a comprehensive suite of services, including biomarker discovery and development, assay development and validation, genomics, digital pathology and consultation on the use of biomarkers to improve patient selection for clinical trials.

Model-Based Drug Development.We have extensive capabilities in the development and use of modeling and simulation techniques to improve decision-making through scenario analysis at key points in the drug development process. Services include population PK/PD modeling and simulation to identify the concentration-response relationship and best doses to pursue in later testing, and clinical trial simulation to test various clinical trial design options simulated on computers before performing the actual clinical trial.

Planning and Design.Our Center for Integrated Drug Development has developed an innovative approach to strategic clinical research planning with a design platform that includes a modeling and simulation process for scenario planning and risk assessment to support portfolio, program development and protocol planning.

Regulatory Affairs Services.We provide comprehensive medical and regulatory affairs services for our biopharmaceutical customers. Our medical services include medical oversight of clinical trials, review and interpretation of adverse experiences, medical writing of reports and clinical trial protocols and strategic planning of drug development programs. Regulatory services for product registration include regulatory strategy design, document preparation, publishing, consultation and liaison with various regulatory authorities.






Advisory Services

We offer our customers consulting services based on our experience with the product life cycle. By operating at the intersection of three core capabilities—strategy, data and analytics—and by providing access to the deep domain expertise offered by our various service lines, we can develop pragmatic solutions that help biopharmaceutical companies anticipate and address their myriad of challenges and opportunities.

Product Development Strategy Consulting.Our expert consultants support biopharmaceutical customers to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their product development operations. We provide objective, industry vetted recommendations to help customers bring safer, differentiated products to market faster and more cost effectively. We begin in the conceptualization phase of development with strategic market research to bring a commercially minded approach to clinical design. Through a combination of secondary data and clinical analytics, we support customers in making informed development decisions.

Regulatory and Compliance Consulting.We supply regulatory and compliance consulting services to the biopharmaceutical industry related to Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, GCP and GLP, global regulatory affairs, and quality systems engineering and validation. We assist customers in preparing for interactions with the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities or agencies, including inspections and resolution of enforcement actions, and complying with current GMP, and quality systems regulations, meeting process and software validation requirements and bringing new medical devices to market.

Process and IT Implementation Consulting.Realizing that strategy is only as good as how effectively it is implemented, we both design highly executable strategies and help implement them. Our consultants help customers optimize clinical and business processes to accelerate timelines and eliminate waste. Change management experts help implement new processes and organizational initiatives. Finally, we develop technology and information technology, or IT, strategies and help ensure their successful implementation.

Integrated Healthcare Services

Integrated Healthcare Services provides the healthcare industry with both broad geographic presence and commercial capabilities. Our customized commercialization services are designed to accelerate the commercial success of biopharmaceutical and other health-related products by promoting, delivering and proving value. When integrated with our product development services, our commercialization services enable solutions across the full lifecycle of a product.

Commercial Services

Contract Sales.Skilled primary care, specialty and multi-channel integrated sales teams provide our customers with a flexible resource that is able to respond quickly and effectively to the changing marketplace. We provide our customers with a variety of staffing options, including direct hire, flexible work arrangements, leave of absence and “strike force” arrangements (in which a team is deployed to a particular territory to capitalize on a market niche opportunity) in both full-time and flex-time solutions. We can supplement our sales forces with remote e-detailing capabilities. Our training and development services integrate traditional, distance-learning and web-based services. Our contract sales unit helps customers design or revamp their existing sales training programs to meet marketplace demands.

Market Entry/Market Exit.Market entry services help biopharmaceutical companies quickly and successfully launch products before or in lieu of establishing a long-term commercial infrastructure. Market exit services help biopharmaceutical companies manage the regulatory, quality and governance issues that arise when exiting unprofitable or less profitable markets. Market entry and market exit services are integrated solutions that can include assistance with regulatory compliance, market access, brand strategy, import and distribution logistics, and sales and marketing programs.

Integrated Multichannel Management.Integrated multichannel solutions leverage market-based analytics to help biopharmaceutical companies optimize channel mix (including sales force mix) so that the sales and marketing strategy for individual drugs can be effectively executed across multiple channels, including the use of sales representatives, e-detailing, video, mail, call center, webinars and online portals. Our integrated multichannel management services allow our customers to access key healthcare stakeholders and tailor the channels used to optimize results.






Patient Engagement Services.Our health management services professionals offer customized clinical and educational solutions to bridge the gap between the clinical and commercial phases of product development and provide expertise across a broad range of pre-launch, launch and post-launch opportunities. We provide customers with solutions in a broad-based spectrum, from patient adherence programs to clinical trial educators that assist in recruitment, education and retention of patients in clinical trials. We assist biopharmaceutical companies in evaluating the therapy from the perspective of the patient, not just the prescriber, supporting patientcompliance and product dosing compliance therapy adherence and patient retention, which we believe can increase commercial success. Our professionals assist in the process of developing patient-centric strategies and implementing them for or side by side with customers.

Market Access and Commercialization Consulting.Market access services support biopharmaceutical customers in the development and execution of a strategy for bringing products into the market based on value. Once a product proceeds from large scale clinical trials to commercialization, our consultants help customers create product positioning, pricing and formulary access and reimbursement strategies based on extensive primary research with providers, patients, payers and other decision-makers.

Real-World and Late Phase Research

Since 2011, our Real World and Late Phase Research group has provided clinical services for more than 415 patient registries and post-approval programs with expertise across approximately 100 countries and numerous therapeutic areas. We provide real-world and late phase research to monitor safety and evaluate benefit-risk, demonstrate effectiveness, gain market access and expand labeling and approved indications. Services offered include observational studies, product and disease registries, safety and surveillance, risk management and risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, comparative and cost effectiveness, expanded labeling, health economics and outcomes, patient-reported outcomes, quality of life, medical record review, and electronic medical record and EHR studies.

Communication and Health Engagement Services

Digital Patient Services.Our digital patient services are designed to find and mobilize patients into clinical research, observational studies and disease management programs, retain patients through engagement strategies, and generate evidence such as patient reported outcomes, laboratory data and device diagnostics directly from patients

Brand and Scientific Communications.Our communications group offers a range of pre-launch, launch and post-launch services, beginning in the early stages of product development and continuing until the product reaches peak penetration. Services include communications strategies and planning, product positioning and branding, opinion leader development, faculty training, symposia, promotional programs, sponsored publications, new media-based programs, patient education and clinical experience programs (either standalone or supporting their health management services). As early as Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, we can begin to develop and disseminate scientific information, and develop and present educational forums to help gain opinion leader support for a new drug.

Other Healthcare Solutions

We utilize our global integrated health service platform, together with our scientific and clinical expertise, to offer a range of specialized services to organizations and users across the care continuum, including governments, hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. These services include comparative and cost-effectiveness research capabilities, clinical management analytics, decision support services, medication adherence and health outcome optimization services, and web-based systems for measuring quality improvement. Our July 2014 acquisition of Encore Health Resources, or Encore, enhanced our EHR expertise, which is becoming increasingly important as biopharmaceutical customers, payers, and providers focus on measuring outcomes based on real-world performance in terms of clinical effectiveness and value.

Our Customers and Marketing

We take a holistic customer-oriented view toward business development. Our integrated business development group is responsible for assessing our customers’ current and future needs and helping to define the right service offerings to be delivered at the right time. We conduct business development efforts across our service offerings and within many individual service offerings, and in order to foster accountability in key service offering areas, each offering area has a designated leader who drives the financial contribution for that offering area. This management structure directs the selling and business development personnel in each of our major locations in the United States and throughout Europe, Asia, Japan, Canada and Latin America, providing coverage to both multinational and regional/domestic biopharmaceutical companies. We maintain dedicated customer teams that deliver customized solutions from the full breadth and depth of our service offerings for the world’s leading biopharmaceutical companies, and continue to evolve our relationships with our mid-size, small, and other biopharmaceutical customers outside the 20 largest biopharmaceutical companies based on 2014 reported revenues.






In2015, we earned service revenues of over $100 million each in six countries in North America, Europe and Asia. Please refer to Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our foreign and domestic operations in 2015, 2014 and 2013. For a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.”

Our service revenues were attributed to our segments as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201520142013Product Development73.8%74.4%76.7%Integrated Healthcare Services26.225.623.3Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Additional information regarding our segments is presented in Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated service revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013. In the past, we have derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our service revenues from a relatively limited number of major projects or customers. As biopharmaceutical companies continue to outsource large projects and/or functions to fewer providers, this concentration of business could increase.

Our Competition

The market for our product development services is highly competitive, and we compete against traditional CROs, the in-house research and development departments of biopharmaceutical companies, universities and teaching hospitals. Among the traditional CROs, there are several-hundred small, limited-service providers, several medium-sized firms and only a few full-service companies with global capabilities. Consolidation among CROs likely will result in greater competition among the larger CROs for customers, clinical personnel and acquisition candidates. Product Development’s primary competitors include Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., PAREXEL International Corporation, ICON plc, inVentiv Health, Inc., or inVentiv, INC Research, PRA International, and Covance Inc., the drug development business of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, or LabCorp, among others. Competitive factors for product development services include:

·previous experience and relationships;

·medical and scientific experience in specific therapeutic areas;

·the quality of contract research;

·speed to completion;

·the ability to organize and manage large scale clinical trials on a global basis;

·the ability to manage large and complex medical databases;

·the ability to provide statistical, regulatory and consulting services;

·the ability to recruit investigators and patients expeditiously;

·the ability to deploy and integrate IT systems to improve the efficiency of contract research;

·risk and reward sharing;

·the ability to form strategic alliances;

·a global presence with strategically located facilities and breadth of service offerings;

·financial strength and stability; and

·price.






Integrated Healthcare Services competes in the post-approval and commercialization arenas. In the post-approval arena our solutions compete against real-world and late phase research providers including boutique firms, divisions of biopharmaceutical companies and divisions of traditional CRO’s (noted above). Our commercial solutions compete against the in-house sales and marketing departments of biopharmaceutical companies, other contract pharmaceutical sales and service organizations and consulting firms.Integrated Healthcare Services’ primary commercial competitors in the United States include inVentiv, PDI, Inc.,which soldits commercial services business toPublicis Healthcare Communications Groupduring the fourth quarter of 2015,and Publicis Selling Solutions. Outside of the United States, Integrated Healthcare Services commercial teams typically compete against single country or more regionally focused commercial service providers, such as United Drug plc, inVentiv, EPS Corporation and CMIC HOLDINGS Co., Ltd in Japan. The primary competitive factors affecting Integrated Healthcare Services are breadth of service offering and ability to deploy in an integrated manner, quality and track record, i.e. the proven ability to quickly assemble, train and manage large qualified commercial teams on a global footprint and price.

Notwithstanding these competitive factors, we believe that the synergies arising from integrating product development services with commercial services, supported by therapeutic and scientific expertise, global operations, data analysis and the ability to form long term strategic alliances with biopharmaceutical companies, differentiate us from our competitors.

Government Regulation

Many aspects of our businesses are regulated by federal and state laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive compliance program and we believe we operate our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our businesses. There are, however, significant uncertainties involving the application of various legal requirements, the violation of which could result in, among other things, sanctions. See “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” for additional detail.

Good Clinical Practice

GCP regulations and guidelines contain the industry standards for the conduct of clinical trials with respect to the integrity of the data and safety of the research subjects. The FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and many other regulatory authorities require that study results and data submitted to such authorities be based on clinical trials conducted in accordance with GCP provisions. Records for clinical trials must be maintained for specified periods for inspection by the FDA and other regulators. Significant non-compliance with GCP requirements can result in the disqualification by regulators of data collected during the clinical trial.

Our standard operating procedures related to clinical trials are written in accordance with regulations and guidelines appropriate to the region where they are used, thus helping to ensure compliance with GCP. FDA regulations and guidelines serve as a basis for our North American standard operating procedures. Within Europe, we perform our work subject to the EMA’s Note for Guidance “Good Clinical Practice for Trials on Medicinal Products in the European Community.” All clinical trials (other than those defined as non-interventional) to be submitted to the EMA must meet the requirements of the ICH’s GCP standards. Our offices in Asia and in Latin America have developed standard operating procedures in accordance with their local requirements and in harmony with our North American and European operations.

Regulation of Drugs, Biologics and Medical Devices

In the United States, pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, the Public Health Service Act, or the PHS Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products. Failure to comply with applicable United States requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve a pending NDA for a new drug, a BLA for a new biological product, or PMA or clearance for a new medical device, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution.

Before a new drug or biologic may be marketed, it must undergo extensive testing and regulatory review to determine that it is safe and effective and be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authority. Even after approval, a new PMA or PMA supplement may be required in the event of a modification to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process.






Regulation of Patient Information

Our information management services relate to the diagnosis and treatment of disease and are, therefore, subject to substantial governmental regulation. In addition, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which such patient-specific records may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business is heavily regulated. Federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information and personal financial data, as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services.

In particular, personal health-related information is recognized in many countries such as the United States, the European Union, or EU, and several countries in Asia, as a special, sensitive category of personal information, subject to additional mandatory protections. Violations of data protection regulations are subject to administrative penalties, civil money penalties and criminal prosecution, including corporate fines and personal liability.

In order to comply with these evolving laws and regulations, we may need to implement new data protection, privacy and data security measures, which may require us to make substantial expenditures or cause us to discontinue or limit the products and services we offer. In addition, if we violate applicable laws, regulations, contractual commitments or other duties relating to the use, privacy or security of health information, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, civil liability or criminal prosecution or suffer reputational harm, and it may be necessary to modify our business practices.

Regulation of Promotion, Marketing and Distribution of Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Devices

Our integrated healthcare services are subject to detailed and comprehensive regulation in each geographic market in which we operate. Such regulation relates, among other things, to the distribution of drug samples, the marketing and promotion of approved products, the qualifications of sales representatives and the use of healthcare professionals in sales functions.

In the United States, our integrated healthcare services are subject to numerous federal and state laws pertaining to promotional activities involving pharmaceutical products and medical devices, such as the FDA’s regulations against “off-label promotion,” which require sales representatives to restrict promotion of the approved product they are detailing to the approved labeling for the product, and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act which imposes licensing, personnel record keeping, packaging, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements. Other federal and state laws prohibit manufacturers, suppliers and providers from offering, giving or receiving kickbacks or other remuneration in connection with ordering or recommending the purchase or rental of healthcare items and services. The sale or distribution of pharmaceutical products and devices is also governed by the United States Federal Trade Commission Act and state consumer protection laws. We are subject to similar regulations currently in effect in the other countries where we offer integrated healthcare services.

We are also subject to various laws and regulations that may apply to certain drug and device promotional practices, including, among others, various aspects of the Medicare program. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in criminal and/or civil penalties, including possibly as an “aider and abettor.”

Regulation of Laboratories






In addition to its comprehensive regulation of safety in the workplace, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for healthcare employers whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such federal, state and local laws, failure to comply with such laws could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

Further, laboratories that analyze human blood or other biological samples for the diagnosis and treatment of clinical trial subjects must comply with CLIA, as well as requirements established by various states. The failure to meet these requirements may result in civil penalties and suspension or revocation of the CLIA certification.

Our Intellectual Property

We develop and use a number of proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property in the conduct of our business. We rely upon a combination of confidentiality policies, nondisclosure agreements, invention assignments and other contractual arrangements to protect our trade secrets, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect other intellectual property rights. We have also registered or applied for trademarks and service marks in the United States and a number of foreign countries, and our trademark “Quintiles®” is of material importance to us. Although the duration of trademark and service mark registrations varies from country to country, trademarks and service marks generally may be renewed indefinitely so long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and so long as they have not been found to have become generic. Although we believe the ownership of our patents, trademarks and service marks is an important factor in our business and that our success does depend in part on the ownership thereof, we rely primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our employees. Other than our Quintiles®trademark, we do not have any material patents, trademarks, service marks, licenses, franchises or concessions.

Net New Business Reporting and Backlog

Backlog was as follows:



December 31,20152014(in millions)Backlog$12,038$11,244

Net new business was as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201520142013(in millions)Product Development$4,121$4,374$3,772Integrated Healthcare Services1,1981,2281,127Total$5,319$5,602$4,899






We believe that backlog and net new business may not be consistent indicators of future revenues because they have been and likely will be affected by a number of factors, including the variable size and duration of projects, many of which are performedover several years, cancellations, and changes to the scope of work during the course of projects. Projects that have been delayed remain in backlog, but the timing of the revenue generated may differ from the timing originally expected. Additionally, projects may be terminated or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities. In the event that a customer cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent customer-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. However, we typically do not have a contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog or net new business contracts in the event of cancellation. For more details regarding risks related to our backlog, see “Risk Factors—The relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 36,100 full-time equivalent employees in approximately 60 countries, comprised approximately of 12,800 in the Americas region, 10,900 in the Europe and Africa region and 12,400 in the Asia-Pacific region, with at least 500 employees in more than 10 countries around the world. As of December 31, 2015, Product Development and Integrated Healthcare Services had approximately 24,800 and 9,500 full-time equivalent employees, respectively. In addition, our centralized operations/corporate office had approximately 1,800 full-time equivalent employees.

The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical staff. The level of competition among employers in the United States and overseas for skilled personnel, particularly those with Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees or training, is high. We believe that our brand recognition and our multinational presence are an advantage in attracting qualified candidates. In addition, we believe that the wide range of clinical trials in which we participate allows us to offer broad experience to clinical researchers. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. Employees in some of our non-United States locations are represented by works councils as required by local laws. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Available Information

Our website address is www.quintiles.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investors.quintiles.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein. Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of shareholders, and any amendments to those reports, as well as Section 16 reports filed by our insiders, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.










