ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and
information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. We are dedicated to developing best-in-classassured communications®products, systems and services for global markets, including RF communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems.

Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive
offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRS.” On June 28, 2013, we
had approximately 14,000 employees. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.

General

We
structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three business segments:



ŸOur RF Communications segment, serving (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety
and Professional Communications markets;

ŸOur Integrated Network Solutions segment, serving (i) IT Services, (ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions (which we
sometimes refer to as “Harris CapRock Communications”) and (iii) Healthcare Solutions markets; and

ŸOur Government Communications Systems segment, serving (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated
solutions operation (“CIS”), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we reported CIS as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the third quarter of fiscal 2012. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation (“Broadcast Communications”), that provided digital media management solutions
in support of broadcast customers, and we reported Broadcast Communications as discontinued operations







beginning with our financial results presented in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 (our “Fiscal 2012 Form 10-K”). On February 4, 2013, we completed the sale of
Broadcast Communications to an affiliate of The Gores Group, LLC pursuant to a definitive Asset Sale Agreement entered into December 5, 2012. Both CIS and Broadcast Communications were formerly part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment.
Our historical financial results for periods prior to fiscal 2012 presented in this Report, except for disclosures related to our cash flows, have been restated to account for CIS and Broadcast Communications as discontinued operations. For
additional information regarding discontinued operations, seeNote 3: Discontinued Operationsin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”). Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or
unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this Report relate solely to our continuing operations.

Financial information with
respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or “Non-operating income (loss)” line
items in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.

Subsequent Event — Share Repurchase Program

On August 23, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase program (our
“New Repurchase Program”) and increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.37 per share to $.42 per share. Our New Repurchase Program is in addition to our prior share repurchase program approved in 2011
(our “2011 Repurchase Program”), which has a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $62 million as of August 23, 2013 (approximately $133 million at June 28, 2013) and does not have a stated expiration date. Our
New Repurchase Program also does not have a stated expiration date. Our repurchase programs have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in repurchases in excess of the dilutive effect of shares issued under our share-based incentive
plans. However, the level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem
relevant. Repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.

Financial Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

Description of Business by Segment

RF Communications

RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial customers and also of secure
communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. RF Communications serves (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and Professional
Communications markets.

U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications
Market:We design, develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications products and systems for manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard installations that span the
communications architecture from High Capacity Line of Site, backbone radios to small Soldier Personal Radios (“SPRs”) and tablet computers. The radios operate in various radio frequency bands, including high-frequency (“HF”),
very high-frequency (“VHF”), ultra high-frequency (“UHF”) and L-band, with higher frequencies supported for some of our network backbone products. Our radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting
diverse mission requirements. Our Falcon®families of tactical radios are built on software-defined radio
platforms that are reprogrammable to add features or software upgrades. Our Falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable network communications capability without relying on a fixed
infrastructure. This capability allows warfighters, for example, to remain connected with each other and their command structures and support organizations. It also provides them the ability to communicate information and maintain situational
awareness of both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and success of their missions.

Unlike
many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a “commercial” customer-driven business model. This means that we anticipate market needs, invest







our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial, off-the-shelf (“COTS”) products to customers, enabling us to bring
products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements.

Our Falcon III®family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting the
U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System (“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are
fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in our Falcon III radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in
weight and size compared with previous generations. Our Falcon III radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications.

Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152 (“152”), is the world’s most widely fielded JTRS-approved
software-defined handheld radio and was our first Falcon III radio to be fielded. Our 152 offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy Single Channel Ground and Airborne System interoperability; UHF ground-to-ground line-of-sight
communications; close-air support; tactical satellite communications (“SATCOM”); and the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials — International (“APCO”) P25 waveform to provide direct communications with
first responders. Our 152 also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our Falcon III AN/VRC-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount — a “grab-and-go”
feature that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.

Our AN/PRC-152A (“152A”) builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability, supporting both our ANW2 for
high bandwidth data operation and the SRW. This is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform. Our 152A recently received JTRS-certification,
making it our second Falcon III wideband radio to receive this important designation. Both our handheld and vehicular versions have been integral to the U.S. Army’s NIE field exercises.

Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits
to major communications systems. These solutions include our Sierra®and Citadel®embedded encryption solutions, KGV-72 blue force tracking programmable encryption devices and our KIK-11 Tactical
Key Loader.

We believe the U.S. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband
technology, and our radio systems have been widely deployed throughout all branches of the DoD. Demand in international markets is being driven not only by the transition to wideband but also by the need for network system solutions. Our extensive
line of radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage in international markets that require fully integrated solutions for command, control
and communications. Our tactical radios have been sold to more than 100 countries through our international distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. Our Falcon radios are standardized in many
countries.

Examples of significant awards for us in fiscal 2013 included the following:



ŸA 5-year, $297 million Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) follow-on contract from the U.S. Department of the Navy for a broad
portfolio of radio solutions to support modernization and standardization on our Falcon III radios;







ŸA 2-year, $397 million Consolidated Single-Channel Handheld Radio (“CSCHR”) follow-on IDIQ contract to provide the DoD with Falcon III
handheld radios that supply interoperable voice and wideband data communications, with two 1-year options that increase the potential value of the contract to $712 million;

ŸA $500 million increase in the ceiling value of our 2011 IDIQ contract with the U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Command (“CECOM”), which
supports international sales of military and land mobile radio systems under the U.S. Government’s Foreign Military Sales program;

ŸA $79 million order from a country in the Middle East for an integrated command, control and communications system utilizing wideband tactical radios
and 4G tactical cellular capabilities;

Ÿ$61 million in orders from the Republic of Poland for ANW2-equipped wideband 117G and 152A radios to provide its armed forces with secure wideband
combat net radio, tactical satellite and ground-to-air communications, as part of its tactical radio modernization to better communicate with coalition partners; and

Ÿ$39 million in orders from several customers in Brazil, including for an end-to-end tactical communications system consisting of a broad range of
Falcon III radios and accessories to enable secure real-time voice, situational awareness and video surveillance communications for SISFRON, the integrated border monitoring system the Brazilian Army is developing across Brazil’s western
border.

Public Safety and Professional Communications
Market:We supply assured communications®systems and equipment for public safety,
Federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations, with products ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced Internet Protocol (“IP”) voice and data networks, that support
multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and multiband, multimode radios, to public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions. We have more than 80 years of experience
in this market and support over 500 systems around the world.

We design, build, distribute, maintain and
supply wireless communications systems. Our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access (“VIDA”) network platform is a unified IP-based voice and data communications system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public
safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including OpenSky®, NetworkFirst,
P25IP, Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
(“EDACS”) and the next-generation 4G Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) communications standard for wireless broadband for first responders. Our VIDA®network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in North America.

We also offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, as well as our UnityTMfamily of multiband radios, including a handheld radio and a
full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. Our Unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on APCO P25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM systems; and include
advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure Bluetooth®wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. They also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth,
including a software-only upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. Our Unity radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple
organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry
multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other.

Other examples of our Public Safety and Professional Communications solutions and services include the following:



ŸWe are designing and building the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System that will provide public safety communications within the
256,000 square-mile Province of Alberta, Canada;

ŸWe are deploying a communications network for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety
and provide interoperability with public safety agencies;

ŸWe provided 700 MHz band LTE pilot programs to multiple U.S. cities, enabling them to share streaming video, voice and mapping;

ŸWe are deploying a P25 simulcast radio system for the Regional Municipality of Durham, Ontario that will provide interoperability with adjacent
municipalities and utility partners and can be adapted to support LTE networks; and

ŸWe are deploying a P25 system for the U.S. Marine Corps Installations East region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies.







Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for the RF
Communications segment decreased 13.8 percent to $1,849 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $2,144 million in fiscal 2012, and was $2,289 million in fiscal 2011. Segment operating income decreased 18.0 percent to
$576.9 million in fiscal 2013 compared with $703.7 million in fiscal 2012, and was $787.0 million in fiscal 2011. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with
39 percent in fiscal 2012 and 42 percent in fiscal 2011. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the U.S. was approximately 44 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 40 percent in
fiscal 2012 and 31 percent in fiscal 2011. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales
funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors was approximately 43 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2012 and 63 percent in fiscal 2011. For a general description of
our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government
Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers
through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description
of our international business, see “Item 1. Business — International Business” of this Report.

The
funded backlog for this segment was $1,341 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $1,300 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $1,503 million at the end of fiscal 2011. We expect to fill approximately 60 percent of this funded
backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a
discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A.
Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Integrated Network Solutions

Integrated Network Solutions provides integrated communications and information technology (“IT”) and services, including a
variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government, energy, maritime and healthcare customers. Integrated Network Solutions serves (i) IT Services, (ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions and
(iii) Healthcare Solutions markets.

IT Services Market:We are a leading systems and
network integrator and prime contractor providing mission-critical end-to-end IT services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. We have positions as a prime contractor on many key IDIQ contract vehicles
related to IT services. We deliver scalable, flexible, secure solutions that achieve objectives and advance mission readiness.

Our IT services platform is standards- and process-driven and follows strict methodologies, and we have attained high-level, specialized
IT services registrations and ratings. We invest in the expertise of our employees to ensure they remain current with evolving technologies and to promote optimal service delivery. In addition, we and our personnel have a mix of security clearances
that enable us to support our broad customer base. Our IT services solutions are built around a firm fixed-price, performance-based contract portfolio, providing the ability to leverage our workforce across multiple engagements to adapt quickly to
specific customer requirements. In the U.S., our operational footprint offers a physical presence in all 50 states and provides support to more than 10,000 customer sites in 300 of the largest U.S. cities.

Examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks
for complex, mission-critical applications include the following:



ŸWe provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air Force
50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by
the DoD and other national security space organizations, under the Network and Space Operations and Maintenance (“NSOM”) program;

ŸWe provide the U.S. Department of the Navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users
as a Tier One subcontractor under the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (“NMCI”) program; however, this work may not continue because in fiscal 2013 we were not awarded there-competefor the successor
program, but we have protested that re-compete award;

ŸWe provide the Government of Canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the CF-18 Hornet fighter aircraft under
the CF-18 Avionics Optimized Weapon System Support program;







ŸWe provide IT integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the U.S. Department of State,
Bureau of Consular Affairs in support of more than 240 U.S. embassies and consulates around the world;

ŸWe provide comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the Defense Information Systems
Agency Crisis Management System;

ŸWe provide enterprise IT support services to the North American Air Defense Command (“NORAD”) and the U.S. Northern Command
(“USNORTHCOM”); and

ŸWe maintain networks that enable over 12 million U.S. military members and their families to receive goods and services at 250 locations
around the world for the Defense Commissary Agency.

Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications
Solutions Market(which we sometimes refer to as “Harris CapRock Communications”):We are a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in
remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government customers. We own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per
week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 125 countries across North America, Central and South America, Europe, Africa andAsia-Pacific.Our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military
customers with defense and intelligence missions. We combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers’ remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters.
Our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by the largest global managed satellite network in the world.

Examples of our end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions include the following:



ŸWe are providing complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard IT system integration and
satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer;

ŸWe are providing data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore Brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships
operating in offshore Norway;

ŸWe are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the North Sea, Brazil, Australia and
Indian Pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels;

ŸWe are providing end-to-end terrestrial and satellite communications services and solutions to a leading global helicopter transportation company;

ŸWe are providing global communications services onboard 34 cruise ships to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew
experiences;

ŸWe are operating the Offshore Communications Backbone, a modular system of seafloor communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in the
eastern Mediterranean Sea, under a3-yearmaster service agreement; and

ŸWe are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 GHz of C-, Ku-, UHF- andX-bandcommercial space
segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers operating in Asia, Europe, the U.S. and all major ocean regions and to classified customers, supporting a
range of missions, including airborne ISR, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations.

Healthcare Solutions Market:We provide systems integration, intelligent infrastructure, information exchange, interoperability, and enterprise business intelligence and
analytics solutions and services for government and commercial healthcare customers. We are a leader in U.S. Federal healthcare IT integration, and we also offer commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability
and business intelligence solutions. Our products, systems and services help improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and outcomes by seeking to ensure that the right information travels, with security and privacy, to the right person,
at the right time, on the right device, at the point of care. Examples include the following:



ŸWe were one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the 5-year Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology (“T4”) IDIQ
contract vehicle from the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) designed to upgrade the VA’s IT system and covering services that will streamline and modernize VA operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 VA
hospitals;

ŸUnder the T4 IDIQ contract vehicle, we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the DoD
and the VA, (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for VA medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing;







ŸWe are providing design, development, enhancement, integration, implementation, maintenance and infrastructure support services for the Veterans
Benefits Administration’s Enterprise Data Warehouse, the primary source for veteran’s benefits data and information; and

ŸWe are implementing statewide Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) infrastructures in Florida and Oregon to connect physicians, hospitals,
regional HIEs and state government agencies.

Revenue, Operating Income and
Backlog:

For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see
“Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this
segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional
sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business — International Business” of this Report.

The funded backlog for this segment was $919 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $930 million at the end of fiscal
2012 and $765 million at the end of fiscal 2011. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $1,106 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $1,174 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $1,295 million at the end of fiscal 2011. We
expect to fill approximately 65 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1.
Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business
—Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Government Communications Systems

Government Communications Systems
conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily
the U.S. Government. Government Communication Systems serves (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets.

Civil Market:We provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of civilian U.S.
Government agencies, including the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). We use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate
secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer
advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission command-and-control (“C2”) systems. Our
ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. Our C2 systems feature COTS design and high levels of flexibility, are designed for
government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.







For example, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract
awarded in July 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air traffic
control system. We designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the FTI network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 FAA
sites across the U.S.

We also have developed a number of other solutions under FAA programs, including a voice switching and
control system providing the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental U.S.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for Alaska’s general
aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the National Airspace System (“NAS”); and a
satellite-based Alaskan NAS interfacility communications system linking the Alaskan Air Route Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with FAA facilities throughout the region.

In fiscal 2013, we were awarded three contracts that provide essential elements of the FAA’s multi-billion dollar Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”) initiative to
transform the U.S. air traffic control system to meet future requirements:



ŸA 7-year, $331 million Data Communications Integrated Services (“DCIS”) contract to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated
air traffic management (and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we were awarded a 7-year, $150 million contract to provide the Data Communications Network Service (“DCNS”) component of the DCIS program, bringing total contract value for
the program to $481 million);

ŸA 15-year, $291 million NextGen NAS Voice System (“NVS”) contract to create a modern Voice Over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) network
for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel; and

ŸA 5-year, $63 million NAS Enterprise Messaging Service (“NEMS”) IDIQ contract that provides the Systems Wide Information Management
(“SWIM”) program with enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather.

In fiscal 2012, we were awarded a 5-year contract to supply Aireon, LLC with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast
(“ADS-B”) receiver payloads that will be part of asatellite-basedaircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control and that will be hosted on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation.

Another example of our capabilities relates to NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite —
Series R(“GOES-R”)Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs. Under two 10-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are
providing a complete, end-to-end solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well
as providing the command and control of operational satellites. We also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data
users. The new antennas will operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites. In fiscal 2013, the GOES-R weather program transitioned from the design and development phase to the
integration, test and deployment phase.

We also are modernizing the ground segment of the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite
System (“TDRSS”) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (“SGSS”) program for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”).
The TDRSS network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-Earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in White Sands, New Mexico and in Guam. The modernization will improve situational awareness for TDRSS network operators, upgrade
computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. The SGSS program builds on our 30-year incumbency with the TDRSS. We were a primary developer of the
original TDRSS ground system in White Sands in the early 1980s, and we also provided the large deployable antennas on the original TDRSS satellites for the space segment of the original program.

National Intelligence Market:A significant portion of this market involves classified programs. Although
classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not
differ materially from the business risks of other U.S. Government programs.

We are a major developer, supplier and
integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the Intelligence Community into a more collaborative
enterprise. Serving primarily national







intelligence and security agency customers, including NSA, the National Reconnaissance Office (“NRO”) and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide
integrated ISR solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and
decision makers. Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed.

In fiscal 2013, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. In addition, our Harris Atlas
Systems joint venture was awarded an $8 million contract to supply a geospatial data sharing system to a government in the Middle East that will enable users to rapidly find, share and access critical geospatial information.

Defense Market:We develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems
and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for
U.S. and international customers. Our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the
DoD’s full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. Our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and SATCOM terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel,
phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless
communications. We also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions.

For example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure
with it, creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. Our Highband Networking RadioTM(“HNR”) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth, on-the-move communications among users of widely
dispersed local area networks by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a Harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of
voice, video and data to all levels of command. Our HNR system was deployed to the U.S. Army 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) 2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the HNR system, and also was
selected by the U.S. Army for rapid deployment into Afghanistan. Our HNRs form the communications backbone of the U.S. Army’s new Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System, and we are currently producing and delivering
HNRs under the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (“WIN-T”) program.

Examples of ongoing
programs for us include the following:



ŸThe U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract awarded in
fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit
Connectivity within the Global Information Grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;

ŸThe F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet (“F/A-18E/F”) aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components,







including Multifunction Advanced Data Link communications subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allowF-35sto communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; and

ŸThe WIN-T program for the U.S. Army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven
enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our HNR system.

In fiscal 2013, we were awarded a $51 million follow-on contract for the MET program and were one of twenty prime contractors selected to
compete for work under the 5-year, $10 billion Global Tactical Advanced Communication Systems IDIQ contract.

Revenue,
Operating Income and Backlog:

The funded backlog for this segment was $964 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $875 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $775 million at the end of fiscal 2011. Unfunded
backlog for this segment was $2,504 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with $2,763 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $3,193 million at the end of fiscal 2011. We expect to fill approximately 76 percent of this funded
backlog during fiscal 2014, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report.
For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
“Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

International Business

Revenue from products and services exported from the U.S. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered
abroad was $1,312.5 million (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013 compared with $1,330.1 million (24 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2012 and $1,003.4 million (19 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2011. Essentially all of
our international sales are derived from our RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions segments. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the
local currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, the Middle
East, Central and South America, Africa and Asia. We have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21
“Subsidiaries of the Registrant” of this Report.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors
and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
governmental customers for direct sales by us.







Prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors
generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. The percentages of our total revenue and of our international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales
channels were approximately 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 12 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and 10 percent and 49 percent, respectively, in
fiscal 2011.

Fiscal 2013 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for
more than 3 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received
prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter
into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.

The particular
economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat
greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. Nevertheless, in the
opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments.

Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
technological advances. Many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets we concentrate on the opportunities that our management
believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to
develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. Within the IT services market, there is intense competition
among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services market depends on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the IT services market.

In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V. (“EADS”),
General Dynamics, Exelis Inc., Motorola Solutions, Raytheon, Rohde & Schwarz, Tadiran and Thales.

In the Integrated
Network Solutions segment, principal competitors include Astrium, CACI, Computer Sciences Corporation, General Dynamics, Globecomm, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Inmarsat, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, NCI Information Systems, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon,
RigNet, SAIC and The Advisory Board Company, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies.

In the
Government Communications Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics,L-3Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, Exelis Inc. and Rockwell
Collins. We frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.

Principal Customers; Government Contracts

The percentage of our revenue
that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was
approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2013 compared with approximately 70 percent in fiscal 2012 and 78 percent in fiscal 2011. No other customer accounted for more than 4 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2013. Additional information
regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of,
and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales in our Government Communications Systems segment and with respect to U.S. Government programs in our Integrated Network Solutions segment are made directly or indirectly to the
U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based on
performance.







Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and
fixed-price contracts. Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and IDIQ contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery
orders under such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs
plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for
payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts,
which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on the contractor’s performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed
periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition
costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs.

Funded and Unfunded Backlog

Our total Company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,789 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with approximately $6,993 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and
$7,523 million at the end of fiscal 2011. The funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,179 million at the end of fiscal 2013 compared with approximately $3,056 million at the end of fiscal 2012 and $3,035 million at the end
of fiscal 2011. The determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of
U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated, including the value of
contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. We do not include potential task or delivery orders under IDIQ contracts in our backlog.







In fiscal 2014, we expect to fill approximately 66 percent of our total funded backlog as of June 28, 2013. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded
backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided
under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report.

Research and Development

Patents
and Other Intellectual Property

Environmental and Other Regulations

Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect
the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. We believe that we have complied with these requirements
and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Based on currently available information, we do not expect expenditures over the next several years to protect the
environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to have a material impact on our competitive position or
financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than







presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. We have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy
legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. We did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates to
historic discontinued operations (other than CIS and Broadcast Communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. We currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material
in fiscal 2014. These amounts may increase in future years. Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report and inNote 1: Significant Accounting
Policiesin the Notes.

Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of
jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment and Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such
requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our Government Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our
existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products.

Wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation. Equipment produced in our Integrated Network Solutions and RF Communications segments,
in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Additionally, we hold licenses for our managed
satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing
requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and
regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Seasonality

We do not
consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government
funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We had approximately 14,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2013. Approximately 91 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal
2013 were located in the U.S. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the U.S. is represented by a labor union. In certain
international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good.







Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://harris.com.Our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make
available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish
to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate
Governance Principles and Committee Charters.We previously adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website athttp://harris.com/corporate_governance/.
In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and
Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
Melbourne, Florida 32919.

Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the certifications required
by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in November 2012 in accordance
with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.



