ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, provides advanced, technology-based solutions that solve government
and commercial customers’ mission-critical challenges. As of the end of fiscal 2015, we had approximately 22,300 employees — including approximately 9,200 engineers and scientists — supporting customers in more than 125 countries. Our
largest customers are U.S. Government customers and their prime contractors.

Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware
in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRS.” Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as used in this Report refer to Harris
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

General

We structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and for fiscal 2015 we reported the financial results of our continuing operations in the following
four business segments:



•RF Communications, serving (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and
Professional Communications markets;

•Government Communications Systems, serving (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets;

•Integrated Network Solutions, serving (i) IT Services and (ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions markets, and which
also served the Commercial Healthcare Solutions market until July 1, 2015, when we completed the divestiture of our commercial healthcare solutions operation (“HCS”); and

•Exelis, which segment results from our acquisition of Exelis Inc. and its subsidiaries on May 29, 2015, provides positioning and navigation,
sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems.

On July 1, 2015, we announced that effective for fiscal 2016 (which began July 4, 2015), our segment reporting would be adjusted to reflect our new organizational structure. Our segment
reporting for fiscal 2016 will consist of the following four business segments: (1) Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical and airborne radios, night vision technology, and defense and public safety networks; (2) Critical
Networks, providing managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and







sustainment, as well as high-value information technology (“IT”) and engineering services; (3) Electronic Systems, offering an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic
warfare, avionics, wireless technology, command, control, communications, computers and intelligence (“C4I”), undersea systems and aerostructures; and (4) Space and Intelligence Systems, providing complete earth observation, weather,
geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. These adjustments to our segment reporting take effect in fiscal 2016 and therefore do not affect
the historical results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will begin to report our financial results consistent with this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first
quarter of fiscal 2016.

At the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, to leverage the breadth of our IT enterprise
network and information assurance capabilities for the IT services market, we began managing our cyber security network testing operation as part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment rather than our Government Communications Systems segment.
As a result, we reassigned $2 million of goodwill (determined on a relative fair value basis) to our Integrated Network Solutions segment from our Government Communications Systems segment. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our
business segments as set forth in this Report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of this change to our business segment reporting structure for all periods presented in this Report.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation
(“CIS”), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we completed the sale of the remaining assets of CIS in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors
approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation (“Broadcast Communications”), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we completed the sale of Broadcast Communications in
the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Both CIS and Broadcast Communications were formerly part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, seeNote 3: Discontinued Operationsin
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”). Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this Report relate solely to our continuing operations.

Financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our business segments or
discontinued operations, is reported as part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or “Non-operating income (loss)” line items in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.

Financial Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures

Acquisition of Exelis Inc.







$3.277 billion in calendar 2014. Our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report include Exelis’ results of operations from May 29, 2015 through July 3, 2015. For segment
reporting purposes Exelis has been identified as a separate segment. For additional information related to the acquisition of Exelis and reporting segments SeeNote 4: Business CombinationsandNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes.

Divestiture of Commercial Healthcare Solutions Operation.On, July 1, 2015, we completed
the divestiture of HCS. We continued to report the results of HCS through the date of divestiture as part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment.

Description of Business by Segment

RF Communications

RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and high-grade encryption solutions for military,
government and commercial customers and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. RF Communications serves (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical
Communications and (ii) Public Safety and Professional Communications markets.

U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications Market:

®

Unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a “commercial” customer-driven business model. This means that we
anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf (“COTS”) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market
faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. We believe the U.S. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology and that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the
transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. Our extensive line of radios is designed to operate and interface well together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a
competitive advantage in the international market, where fully integrated solutions for command, control and communications are often required. We believe our unique commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale
provided by our extensive international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market.

Our Falcon III®family of radios is the next generation of
multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting U.S. and international network-centric operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to
address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in our Falcon III radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared
with previous generations. Our Falcon III radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications and include the following:



•Our multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G (“117G”), which provides wideband networking capability, enabling enhanced situational awareness
through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks, and which is National Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1-certified for narrowband
communications, as well as for wideband communications using our Harris-developed Adaptive Networking Wideband Waveform for high bandwidth data operation and the U.S. military Joint Tactical Radio System (“JTRS”) Soldier Radio Waveform;







•Our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the AN/VRC-118, which uses the DoD-developed Wideband Networking Waveform and was selected as the U.S.
Army’s solution for its JTRS Mid-Tier Networking Vehicular Radio program;

•Our multiband handheld radios, the AN/PRC-152 (“152”), which is the world’s most widely fielded JTRS-approved software-defined handheld
radio and offers a wide range of capabilities, and the AN/PRC-152A, which builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability and is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and
wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; and

•Our multi-channel manpack radio, the AN/PRC-158 (“158”), which is the first and only commercially developed, NSA Type-1-certified radio
offering two channels integrated into the same chassis, and our wideband rifleman team radio, the RF-330E (“330E”), which is the commercially developed U.S. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio.

Examples of significant international awards for us in fiscal 2015 include the following:



•A 4-year, C$180 million ceiling, single-award IDIQ contract from the Canadian Department of National Defense;

•A $74 million order from an international customer for the next phase of a tactical communications modernization program;

•Orders from Australia of $55 million for technical and logistics support for the Joint Project 2072 Battlespace Communications program; and

•A number of other significant international orders, many of which are a part of multi-year programs or larger opportunities, across a broad customer
base, including orders totaling $244 million from countries in the Middle East; $21 million from a country in Central Asia; $18 million from a country in Asia; $18 million from the Philippines; and $26 million and $16 million from two NATO
countries.

Public Safety and Professional Communications
Market:We supplyassured communications®systems and equipment for public
safety, Federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations.

We design, build, distribute,
maintain and supply wireless communications systems. Our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access (“VIDA”) network platform is a unified Internet Protocol (“IP’) based voice and data communications system that provides
network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including OpenSky®, NetworkFirst, P25IPand Enhanced Digital Access Communication System. Our VIDA®network
solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communications networks in North America. We also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade Long Term Evolution
(“LTE”) solutions for voice, video and data applications.

We also offer a full range of
single-band land mobile radio terminals, as well as our UnityTMfamily of multiband radios, including a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. Our Unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on
Association of Public Safety Communications Officials — International (“APCO”) P25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global
Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure Bluetooth®wireless
technology and background noise suppression features. They also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation standard for
mission-critical communications. Our Unity radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and







agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over many current radio systems for U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus
require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other. In
fiscal 2015, we introduced our new XG-15 portable radio, which extends our product offerings and provides public service workers with APCO P25 capability at a competitive price. We also offer dispatch console systems.

Other examples of our Public Safety and Professional Communications solutions and services include the following:



•We are designing and building the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System that will provide public safety communications within the
256,000 square-mile Province of Alberta, Canada;

•We are deploying a communications network for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety
and provide interoperability with public safety agencies;

•We are deploying an APCO P25 system for the U.S. Marine Corps Installations East region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies;

•We are designing and deploying a VIDA network system for the Trinidad and Tobago Ministry of National Security that will improve voice and data
communication and provide interoperability among first responders and the Ministry’s agencies; and

•We are designing, deploying and maintaining an APCO P25 system for the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority Police to connect their police
operations throughout 14 counties in New York and Connecticut and help them support more than 14 million daily commuters.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for our RF Communications segment decreased 2.9 percent to $1.775 billion in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.828 billion in
fiscal 2014, and was $1.849 billion in fiscal 2013. Segment operating income decreased 2.3 percent to $549 million in fiscal 2015 compared with $562 million in fiscal 2014, and was $577 million in fiscal 2013. The percentage
of our revenue contributed by this segment was 35 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2014 and 36 percent in fiscal 2013. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the U.S. was
approximately 59 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 54 percent in fiscal 2014 and 44 percent in fiscal 2013. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers,
including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with
approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2014 and 43 percent in fiscal 2013. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus
fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment
markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business — International Business” of
this Report.

The funded backlog for this segment was $1.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $1.1 billion at the
end of fiscal 2014 and $1.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. Additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain
risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and
“Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Government Communications Systems

Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research studies, develops prototypes, and produces state-of-the art spaceborne,
airborne and terrestrial communications and information processing systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the U.S. Government. Government
Communication Systems serves (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets.

Civil
Market:We provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of civilian U.S. Government agencies, including the Federal Aviation
Administration (“FAA”) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). We use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing
technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks







and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing
and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground data processing, in which our systems consisting of complex suites of hardware and software receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into useable information.

As an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in July 2002, with a
potential value of $5 billion, for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air traffic control system. We designed and
deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the FTI network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at approximately 4,500 FAA sites across the U.S.
(including administrative sites supported by the FTI network).

We recently have been awarded multiple contracts for essential
elements of the FAA’s multi-billion dollar Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”) initiative to transform the U.S. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, including:



•7-year contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $481 million, for the Data Communications Integrated Services (“Datacomm”) program
(including the Data Communications Network Service component) to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management;

•A 15-year, $291 million NextGen National Airspace System (“NAS”) Voice System contract to create a modern Voice Over Internet Protocol
(“VoIP”) network for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel;

•An 8-year, $238 million single-award IDIQ contract from the FAA for the Common Support Services Weather program to design and implement a system that
provides real-time weather information across the NAS; and

•A 5-year, $63 million NAS Enterprise Messaging Service IDIQ contract that provides the Systems Wide Information Management program with enterprise-wide
data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather.

We also have developed a number of other solutions under FAA programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft
and air traffic controllers throughout the continental U.S.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for Alaska’s general aviation community, for which we were awarded a follow-on contract in fiscal 2015; a meteorological data
processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the NAS; and a satellite-based Alaskan NAS interfacility communications system linking the Alaskan Air
Route Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with FAA facilities throughout the region.

Another example of our capabilities
relates to the NOAA Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite — Series R(“GOES-R”)Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs. Under two 10-year contracts, with an aggregate
potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate
and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. We also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry
and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites. In fiscal 2013, the GOES-R weather
program transitioned from the design and development phase to the integration, test and deployment phase.

We also are
modernizing the ground segment of the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (“TDRSS”) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (“SGSS”) program for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”). The TDRSS network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-Earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in White Sands, New Mexico and in Guam. The modernization
will improve situational awareness for TDRSS network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs.

National Intelligence Market:A significant portion of this market involves classified programs. Although
classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not
differ materially from the business risks associated with other U.S. Government programs.

We are a major developer,
supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the Intelligence Community into a more
collaborative enterprise. Serving primarily national







intelligence and security agency customers, including the NSA, the National Reconnaissance Office and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide integrated ISR
solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers.
Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed.

In fiscal 2015, we
were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs, including a 5-year, $300 million single-award IDIQ contract to integrate various intelligence systems, and a $23 million contract from a classified customer
for space situational awareness. We also introduced two new space reflector products — a first-to-market 5-meter unfurlable Ka-band antenna serving a growing market for high throughput satellites and a new lightweight fixed-mesh reflector. In
fiscal 2014, we were awarded two 5-year, single-award IDIQ contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $773 million, by the NGA for the Foundation GEOINT Content Management (“FGCM”) program to provide imagery products for two of three
regions — $365 million for Region A for the U.S. Pacific Command and U.S. Northern Command and $408 million for Region C for the U.S. Africa Command and U.S. Southern Command.

We also are leveraging our core capabilities to address adjacencies and create new opportunities. For example, we are supplying Aireon,
LLC with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast (“ADS-B”) receiver payloads that will be part of asatellite-basedaircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. The payloads
will be hosted on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation, but will provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation, and we are adding other customers and increasing the number of payloads. In fiscal 2015, we received an
order from exactEarth Ltd. to place 58 commercially-hosted payloads on the Iridium NEXT constellation to track maritime vessels, and we were awarded a $495 million multi-vendor IDIQ contract from the U.S. Air Force for the Hosted Payload Solutions
program for commercial hosting capabilities for U.S. Government payloads, which provides us a contract vehicle to pursue additional opportunities.

Defense Market:We develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and
maritime applications supporting DoD missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for U.S. and international customers. Our technologies are providing
advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics
missions. Our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and SATCOM terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation
electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. We also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless
voice and data products and solutions.

Examples of ongoing programs for us in this market include the following:



•The U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a 10-year contract awarded in
fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit
Connectivity within the Global Information Grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;







•The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced
avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link communications subsystems primarily
intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allowF-35sto communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions; and

•The U.S. Navy’s Commercial Broadband Satellite program, for which we are providing shipboard terminals that give crews access to high-bandwidth
voice and data communications.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:

The funded backlog for this segment was $1.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $918 million at the end of fiscal 2014 and $948 million at the end of fiscal 2013. Unfunded backlog
for this segment was $2.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $3.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $2.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under
“Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
“Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Integrated Network Solutions

Integrated Network Solutions provides
integrated communications and information technology and services, including a variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government, energy and maritime customers. Integrated Network Solutions serves (i) IT Services and
(ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions markets and also served the Commercial Healthcare Solutions market until July 1, 2015, when we completed the divestiture of HCS.

IT Services Market:We are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor providing
mission-critical, end-to-end IT services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. We have positions as a prime contractor on many key U.S. Government IDIQ contract vehicles related to IT services.

Examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks
for complex, mission-critical applications include the following:



•We are providing operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air Force
50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control (“C2”) of various space
programs managed by the DoD and other national security space organizations, under the Network and Space Operations and Maintenance (“NSOM”) program, and we are a leader in satellite mission C2 systems, which feature COTS design and high
levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed;







•We are providing the Canadian government with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the CF-18 Hornet fighter aircraft
under the CF-18 Avionics Optimized Weapon System Support program;

•We are providing IT integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the U.S. Department of
State under the Consular Affairs Support Services Contract in support of more than 240 U.S. embassies and consulates around the world;

•We are providing comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the Defense Information
Systems Agency Crisis Management System for which we were awarded a new, 10-year, $450 million single award IDIQ contract in fiscal 2015;

•We are providing enterprise IT support services to the North American Air Defense Command and the U.S. Northern Command; and

•We are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the DoD and the Department of Veterans
Affairs (“VA”), (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for VA medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing, as one of eight companies in the large business category awarded
the 5-year Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology IDIQ contract vehicle from the VA designed to upgrade the VA’s IT system and covering services to streamline and modernize VA operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 VA
hospitals.

Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions
Market:Harris CapRock Communications is a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government
customers. We own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 200 global field
service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 80 countries across North America, Central and South America, Europe, Africa andAsia-Pacific.Our customers include major land-based and offshore
energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military customers with defense and intelligence missions. We combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless
technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers’ remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. Our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by
a global managed satellite network.

Examples of our hybrid communications network solutions include the following:



•We are providing satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard IT system integration and satellite bandwidth, under
multi-year agreements covering over 700 sites operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 80 sites operating worldwide for another energy customer;

•We are providing data, voice and networking service to drilling ships operating in offshore Brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships
operating in offshore Norway;

•We are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 58 offshore supply vessels operating in the North Sea, Brazil, Australia and
Indian Pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels;

•We are providing managed global satellite communications services for a major cruise line across its fleet of more than 100 cruise ships and providing
managed global communications services for more than 30 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; and

•We are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 GHz of C-, Ku-, UHF- andX-bandcommercial space
segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers operating around the world and to classified customers, supporting a range of missions, including airborne
ISR, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations.

Commercial
Healthcare Solutions Market:We offered commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability and business intelligence solutions until we completed the divestiture of HCS on July 1, 2015.
Our interoperability solutions included FusionFX®, which was our new vendor-neutral integrated suite of software
tools that advanced our previous interoperability platform by incorporating a new service-oriented architecture foundation and that integrated with leading electronic health record and other legacy systems to securely bring together patient
information from across the continuum of care and make it available to clinical teams for value-based, accountable and coordinated care.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for our Integrated Network Solutions segment decreased 14.4 percent to $1.253 billion in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.463
billion in fiscal 2014, and was $1.576 billion in fiscal 2013. Segment operating income decreased 63.8 percent to $42 million in fiscal 2015 compared with







In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment
markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business — International Business” of
this Report.

The funded backlog for this segment was $853 million at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $973 million at
the end of fiscal 2014 and $934 million at the end of fiscal 2013. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $777 million at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with $921 million at the end of fiscal 2014 and $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2013.
Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks
relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this
Report.

Exelis

As described above, we completed the acquisition of Exelis on May 29, 2015, approximately one month prior to the end of our fiscal 2015. Exelis is a diversified aerospace, defense, information and
services business that leverages its deep customer knowledge and technical expertise to deliver affordable mission-critical solutions to military, government and commercial customers in the United States and globally. Exelis, provides positioning
and navigation, sensors, air traffic management solutions, image processing and distribution, communications and information systems.

We design,
develop, produce and sell electronic warfare solutions to most U.S. military service branches and to classified customers and allied nations and produce electronic warfare countermeasures solutions for tactical and strategic aircraft. We are a key
player on airborne platforms such as the U.S. Navy’s F/A-18 and U.S. special







operations forces MH-60, MH-47 and CV-22 aircraft. We also design and produce aircraft-armament suspension and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance
aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the U.S. military and allied forces. Our products also include advanced antenna technologies which provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military and
commercial aircraft. We also design and manufacture high performance radar systems and signal intelligence systems for both domestic and international military customers. Our core radar capabilities include air defense radars, air traffic control
(“ATC”) radars and airborne multifunction radars. We provide electronic warfare and signals intelligence systems for reconnaissance and surveillance for electronic intelligence, electronic support measures, electronic counter measures and
signals intelligence applications.

We develop advanced, custom solutions which provide our government and commercial customers
with self-protection, data protection, enhanced communications and situational awareness. We specialize in satellite based communications systems, ground electronic warfare systems, commercial wireless technologies, tagging, tracking and locating,
and information assurance. To combat the anti-access/area denial (“A2/AD”) threat, we leverage an adaptive multiplatform approach to ensure that users can connect and share data globally without being constrained by terrain or distance. We
integrate data devices into A2/AD-resilient architectures which provide a secure global backbone for C4ISR capabilities against sophisticated adversaries.

We supply to the U.S. Navy and allied navies a broad range of undersea warfare systems for maritime platforms and environments, including mine sweeping systems, shipboard command and control systems,
anti-submarine warfare (“ASW”) sonar systems, data link systems, submarine flank and passive towed arrays, and acoustic sensors for military and commercial uses. We are the largest U.S. manufacturer of influence and mechanical mine
sweeping systems and are a trusted provider of mine defense solutions to the U.S. Navy.

We design and manufacture technically
advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries in applications from large commercial transport aircraft to fighter jets and commercial and military rotorcraft. Our
composite design and fabrication expertise can be found on many commercial platforms, such as Boeing’s 7-series family, Airbus’s A380 aircraft, General Electric’s GEnx engine, and Sikorsky’s S-76 helicopter. For defense programs,
we provide a wide range of products, including complete structural assemblies, flight critical components, and primary and secondary structural elements for platforms such as the F-35 Lightning II, the CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopter and the Joint
Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile.

We provide a broad range of service solutions, including systems integration; network design and development; air traffic management; cyber; intelligence; advanced engineering; and space launch and
range-support, for a wide variety of U.S. military and U.S. Government customers. Our advanced information solutions portfolio includes enduring mission support, advanced research and development support, and enterprise information support to
deliver affordable, essential mission solutions for critical networks and ISR and analytics applications. We serve enduring missions in military and national intelligence, strategic deterrence, and defense against chemical, biological, radiological,
nuclear and explosive threats, and other core defense programs. We develop information-enabled solutions for U.S. Government customers that rely on our expertise to securely access, integrate and share sensitive data. These solutions integrate key
capabilities in cyber defense, cross-domain information sharing, broad enterprise applications of information technology, and the implementation of leading edge network and systems architectures. For example, we are the prime contractor for the U.S.
Joint Spectrum Center’s (“JSC”) Electromagnetic Spectrum







Engineering Services contract, under which we provide engineering systems support, technical analysis, test support, and long-term strategic planning as JSC meets national security and military
objectives related to the use of the electromagnetic spectrum.

®

We provide a full spectrum of technical services
supporting mission critical network systems. These services include systems engineering, lifecycle sustainment, logistic support, modernization, and operations and maintenance for U.S. military launch, test and training ranges, including DoD’s
SATCOM systems, NASA’s ground communications networks and launch ranges and other high-priority U.S. Government assets throughout the world. Key areas of support include system engineering, sustainment, logistics, depot maintenance, software
and hardware engineering and configuration management for range instrumentation such as tracking, telemetry, optical, weather, communications, and command and control networks and systems.

We also provide payload processing and launch services for numerous government agencies. These key systems and assets are critical to the
launch range and space communications network infrastructures, including the air, land and sea training range for the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force space launch ranges on the U.S. East and West Coasts. Under our Tethered Aerostat Radar System
program, we operate and maintain a series of airborne radar platforms and associated infrastructure and communications to provide persistent, long-range detection and monitoring (radar surveillance) capability for interdicting low-level air,
maritime and surface smugglers and narcotics traffickers along the United States-Mexico border, the Florida Straits and a portion of the Caribbean. Under our Spacelift Range System contract, which ended in fiscal 2015 and contributed $85 million in
revenue to Exelis for all of Harris’ fiscal 2015, we engineered, modernized and sustained large networks and range support infrastructure for the western ranges based in Vandenburg Air Force Base in California and the eastern ranges based in
Patrick Air Force Base in Florida. We also sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for the U.S. Air Force’s early warning system under our System Engineering and
Sustainment Integrator (“SENSOR”) contract.

On September 27, 2014, before being acquired by Harris, Exelis
completed the spin-off of part of its military and government services business (“Vectrus” or “Vectrus, Inc.”). For a discussion of risks relating to the spin-off of Vectrus completed by Exelis, see “Item IA. Risk
Factors” of this Report.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Since the close of the
acquisition on May 29, 2015, our Exelis segment contributed $279 million of revenue and $37 million of operating income in fiscal 2015. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 5 percent in fiscal 2015.

The funded backlog for this segment was $2.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2015. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $3.2 billion at the
end of fiscal 2015. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment,
including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
Proceedings” of this Report.







International Business

Revenue from products and services exported from the U.S., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1.6 billion (31 percent of our revenue; 32 percent of our revenue,
excluding Exelis) in fiscal 2015 compared with $1.5 billion (30 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2014 and $1.3 billion (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013. Most of our international sales were derived from our RF Communications and
Integrated Network Solutions segments. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our
domestic and international operations is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Central and South America, Africa and Asia. We have also
established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 of this Report.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of
products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer in
many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the
final sales prices paid by the customer. The percentages of our total revenue and international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels were approximately 16 percent and 44 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2015 compared with
approximately 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013.

Fiscal 2015 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 4 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters
of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant
foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate
sales to certain customers.

The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the
U.S. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description
of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. In the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our
international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments.

Competition

We operate
in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets, we
concentrate on the opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological
capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. We
frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.

In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include Airbus DS Communications (formerly Cassidian Communications, an Airbus Group company), Aselsan A.S., Elbit Systems Ltd., General Dynamics
Corporation, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc., Raytheon Company, Rohde & Schwarz Group, Selex ES (a Finmeccanica Group company), Tait Ltd. and Thales Group.

In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems plc, The Boeing Company, General Dynamics
Corporation,L-3Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company, and Rockwell Collins, Inc.







In the Integrated Network Solutions segment, principal competitors include Astrium Services
Government, Inc. (an Airbus Group company), Computer Sciences Corporation, Engility Holdings, Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, Leidos Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, MTN, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and RigNet,
Inc.

In the Exelis segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems, Inc., The Boeing Company, EADS N.V., Finmeccanica
S.p.A, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications Corporation, Leidos Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and Thales Group.

Principal Customers; Government Contracts

The percentage of our revenue
that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was
approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2015 compared with approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2014 and 67 percent in fiscal 2013. No other customer accounted for more than 3 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2015. Additional information
regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of,
and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales in our Government Communications Systems segment, our Exelis segment and, with respect to U.S. Government programs in our Integrated Network Solutions segment, are made directly
or indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or
for default based on performance.

Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and
fixed-price contracts. Government-wide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and multi-vendor IDIQ contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task
or delivery orders under such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of
allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which
provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee
contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed
periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition
costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs.

Our U.S. Government
fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost
savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of
target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down
depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly
progress payments from the U.S. Government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and
deliverables under the contract. Our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.

As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and services to the
U.S. Government are dependent on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international
developments. Long-term U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under contracts terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, a
contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the U.S. Government pays







only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. In many cases, there is also
uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under many U.S. Government contracts,
we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors”
and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Funded and Unfunded Backlog

Our total Company-wide funded and unfunded backlog, including for Exelis, was approximately $12.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2015
compared with approximately $7.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2014 and $6.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. The funded portion of this backlog was approximately $5.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 compared with approximately $3.0 billion at
the end of fiscal 2014 and $3.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. The determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a
cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. The level of order activity related to U.S. Government programs can be affected by timing of U.S. Government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. Year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be
impacted by these factors, among others.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which
funding has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government
agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source IDIQ contracts awarded for a
specific limited purpose. In fiscal 2016, we expect to convert to revenue approximately 68 percent of our total funded backlog as of July 3, 2015. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become
revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under
“Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report.

Research and Development

Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and valuable
portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. We also license intellectual property to and from
third parties. As of July 3, 2015, we held approximately 1,870 U.S. patents and 1,890 foreign patents, and had approximately 360 U.S. patent applications pending and 1,040 foreign patent applications pending. Unpatented research,
development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our
business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged in a proactive patent
licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements have generated







income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage in litigation to
protect our patents and other intellectual property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. For further
discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. With regard to certain patents relating to our Government Communications Systems, RF Communications and Exelis segments, the
U.S. Government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the
U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset.

Environmental and Other Regulations

Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this
Report and inNote 1: Significant Accounting PoliciesandNote 25: Legal Proceedings and Contingenciesin the Notes.

Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting
materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical
and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our Government Communications Systems, RF Communications and
Exelis segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future
products.

Wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental
regulation. Equipment produced in our RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to
permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize
operation of networks and teleports. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and
licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous
sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. We are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of
components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to







customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either
because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. Although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers
and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the RoHS environmental
regulations in the European Union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. These events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain
shortages. As of July 3, 2015, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. For further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this
Report.

Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and
the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We had
approximately 22,300 employees at the end of fiscal 2015. Approximately 93 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2015 were located in the U.S. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance.
We also utilize a number of independent contractors. Approximately 900, or approximately 4 percent, of our employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. These collective bargaining
agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. Exelis and its predecessors have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. For certain international
subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make
available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish
to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters.We previously adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website athttp://harris.com/corporate_governance/.
In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and
Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
Melbourne, Florida 32919.

Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the certifications required
by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in November 2014 in accordance
with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.



