ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is a leading technology innovator, solving government and commercial customers’ toughest mission-critical challenges by providing solutions that connect, inform and protect. We support customers in more than 100 countries and, as of the end of fiscal2016, had approximately21,000employees, including approximately9,000engineers and scientists. We serve both domestic and international customers with products, systems and services that have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications, with our largest customers being U.S. Government customers and their prime contractors.

Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRS.” Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.

General

We structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve. We implemented a new organizational structure effective at the beginning of fiscal 2016, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also our reportable segments and are referred to as our business segments. As a result, for fiscal2016we reported the financial results of our continuing operations in the following four business segments:

•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense and public safety networks;

•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing complete Earth observation, environmental, geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics;

•Electronic Systems, offering an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic warfare, avionics, wireless technology, command, control, communications, computers and intelligence (“C4I”) and undersea systems; and

•Critical Networks, providing managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and sustainment, as well as high-value information technology (“IT”) and engineering services.












The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Report reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present all segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows resulting from these changes.

Financial Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”) and is incorporated herein by reference.

Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures

The following paragraphs summarize recent acquisitions and divestitures. For additional information related to acquisitions, seeNote 4: Business Combinationsin the Notes. For additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, seeNote 3: Discontinued Operations and Divestituresin the Notes.

Acquisition of Exelis Inc.

Divestiture of Composite Aerostructures Business.    On April 8, 2016, we completed the divestiture of our composite aerostructures business (“Aerostructures”), which designed and manufactured technically advanced, lightweight composite aerospace assembly structures, sub-assemblies and components for defense and commercial industries. Aerostructures was not strategic to our business and was part of our Company as a result of our acquisition of Exelis in May 2015. The operating results of Aerostructures through the date of divestiture are reported as part of our Electronic Systems segment.

Divestiture of Commercial Healthcare Solutions Operation.    On July 1, 2015, we completed the divestiture of our commercial healthcare solutions operation (“HCS”). The operating results of HCS through the date of divestiture were part of our former Integrated Network Solutions segment, but are included as part of corporate in this Report.

Divestiture of Broadcast Communications Operation.In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation (“Broadcast Communications”), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, pursuant to which Broadcast Communications was reported as discontinued operations. In the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of Broadcast Communications to an affiliate of The Gores Group, LLC (the “Buyer”). In the third quarter of fiscal 2016, a nationally recognized accounting firm previously appointed by us and the Buyer rendered its final determination as to a dispute between us and the Buyer over the amount of the post-closing working capital adjustment to the purchase price, and consequently, we recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for fiscal 2016.

Divestiture of Cyber Integrated Solutions Operation.In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated solutions operation (“CIS”), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, pursuant to which CIS was reported as discontinued operations. We completed the sale of the remaining assets of CIS in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and received payment in full on a promissory note that formed part of the purchase price in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. We recorded the related activity in discontinued operations for the respective periods.









Description of Business by Segment

Communication Systems

Communication Systems serves markets in tactical communications and defense and public safety networks.

Tactical Communications:

Our next-generation radios include multiband, multi-mission, legacy-system compatible tactical radios, which address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in these radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in size and weight compared with previous generations. Wideband networking capability enables enhanced situational awareness through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks. Our comprehensive line of current and next-generation radios includes the following:

•Our widely deployed Single Channel Ground and Airborne Radio System (“SINCGARS”) family of backpack, vehicular-mounted, handheld and airborne radios currently used by U.S. and allied military forces — these Combat Net Radios, over 600,000 of which have been purchased and deployed worldwide, operate in the very high frequency band, have single-frequency and frequency-hopping modes, handle voice and data communications and are designed to be reliable, secure and easily maintained.

•Our multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G, which is National Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1-certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our Harris-developed Adaptive Networking Wideband Waveform for high bandwidth data operation and the U.S. military Joint Tactical Radio System (“JTRS”) Soldier Radio Waveform;

•Our 2-channel vehicular radio system, the AN/VRC-118, which uses the DoD-developed Wideband Networking Waveform and was selected as the U.S. Army’s solution for its JTRS Mid-Tier Networking Vehicular Radio program;

•Our multiband handheld radios, the AN/PRC-152, which is a widely fielded JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio, and the AN/PRC-152A, which adds wideband, networked communications capability and supports both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform;

•Our multi-channel manpack radio, the AN/PRC-158, which is a commercially developed, NSA Type-1-certified radio offering two channels integrated into the same chassis;

•Our wideband rifleman team radio, the RF-330E, which is the commercially developed U.S. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio;

•Our wideband ground radio family for international customers, the RF-7850x, which covers all echelons of the battlefield with soldier handheld, vehicular and fixed-site radio products;

•Our wideband high frequency manpack radio, the RF-7800H, which is a wideband-capable tactical high frequency radio available to customers worldwide;

•Our single-channel airborne radios, which include the NSA Type-1-certified RF-300M-DL Small Secure Data Link multiband radio for integration in size, weight and power-constrained environments, as well as the ARC-201D and ARC-201E radios for DoD and international very high frequency network interoperability; and

•Our multi-channel airborne radios, which include the RF-7850A for interoperability with our RF-7800 family of international ground radios, as well as a 2-channel airborne radio platform we provide to ViaSat, Inc. to be built into the KOR-24A multi-channel, Link-16 Small Tactical Terminal.









Unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market principally on a “commercial” customer-driven business model. This means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf (“COTS”) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. The U.S. market is undergoing a modernization cycle driven by wideband technology, and we believe that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. We believe our commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market.

We have been investing to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities, including in our next-generation manpack and rifleman radio solutions for the JTRS Handheld, Manpack and Small Form Fit (“HMS”) program. Our investments also include incorporating the powerful Mobile User Objective System (“MUOS”) waveform for the DoD’s next-generation military satellite communication (“SATCOM”) system. We are embedding MUOS capability in our multi-channel manpack radio, as well as offering it as a separate, simple and fast software upgrade for our widely fielded single-channel multiband manpack radio, which we believe creates an opportunity for the DoD to transition its existing inventory of those radios to MUOS capability and quickly maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure. We also believe the demand to extend ground tactical networks to the air, combined with our ARC-201 SINCGARS airborne radios, creates opportunities for us in manned and unmanned airborne applications.

Examples of significant recent awards for us include the following:

•A 10-year (5-year base, 5 option years), multi-award Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contract from the U.S. Army awarded in fiscal 2015 for rifleman radios and associated services under the JTRS HMS program;

•A 10-year (5-year base, one 5-year option), multi-award IDIQ contract from the U.S. Army awarded in fiscal 2016 for multi-channel manpack radios under the JTRS HMS program;

•A 6-year, single-award IDIQ contract from the U.S. Special Operations Command awarded in fiscal 2016 for a new integrated 2-channel handheld tactical radio;

•An increase in fiscal 2016 in the ceiling value of a previously awarded single-source IDIQ contract with the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency to provide tactical radio spare parts to the U.S. Army and federal civilian agencies;

•A 5-year, single-award follow-on foreign military sales IDIQ contract from U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Command (“CECOM”) awarded in fiscal 2016 to supply tactical communications solutions; and

•A 5-year, single-award foreign military sales IDIQ contract to supply SINCGARS tactical solutions.

We design and manufacture other communications-related products, including SpearNet Enhanced Video On-board tactical wearable radios, which, when combined with night vision and intelligence dissemination products, forms the Individual Soldier System integrated solution. In addition, we produce high-performance, advanced, vision-enhancing products for U.S. and allied military and security forces and for first responders using our image intensification and sensor fusion technology. We develop, produce and supply Generation 3 image intensification technology for U.S. and allied military and security forces. We provide AN/PVS-14 and AN/PVS-7 ground night vision goggles and spare image intensifier tubes to the U.S. and allied militaries, via foreign military sales, and we are the primary supplier to the U.S. military for the AN/AVS-6 and AN/AVS-9 aviation night vision goggles, which provide rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft pilots the ability to operate in extreme low-light situations. We also developed the Enhanced Night Vision Goggle (“ENVG”) system, which optically overlays traditional night vision imagery with long wave thermal infrared imagery. The ENVG system enables users to effectively operate in extreme low-light and obscured battlefield conditions.

Public Safety and Professional Communications:We are a global supplier of secure communication systems and equipment for public safety, Federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations.

We design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. Our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access (“VIDA”) network platform is a unified Internet Protocol (“IP”)-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line of communication systems, including NetworkFirst, P25IPand Enhanced Digital Access Communication System. Our VIDA®network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and regional communication networks in North America. We also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) solutions for voice, video and data applications.

We offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio (“LMR”) terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. Our multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on Association of Public Safety Communications Officials - International (“APCO”) P25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global Positioning System receiver for situational awareness, internal secure Bluetooth®wireless technology and background









noise suppression features. They also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. Our radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems. In fiscal 2016, we introduced the XL-200P multiband radio, which has WiFi, WiFi Hotspot and LTE capabilities and push-to-talk voice over IP in both WiFi and LTE, providing first responders the ability to communicate freely outside of their LMR coverage jurisdiction. We also offer dispatch console systems.

Other examples of our Public Safety and Professional Communications solutions and services include the following:

•Deploying digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for the State of Florida, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of Nevada;

•Deploying large, wide-area and multi-state LMR systems for some of the largest utility companies in the U.S.;

•Deploying for the DoD-National Capitol Region network in the Washington, D.C. area a wide-area, IP-based P25 network that links nearly 20 military bases, providing the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps with wireless communications on base and throughout the National Capitol Region, and that allows interoperability with local public safety agencies to provide one integrated regional network;

•Designing and building the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile Province of Alberta, Canada;

•Designing and deploying a VIDA network system for the Trinidad and Tobago Ministry of National Security that will improve voice and data communications and provide interoperability among first responders and the Ministry’s agencies; and

•Designing, deploying and maintaining an APCO P25 system for the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police to connect their police operations throughout 14 counties in New York and Connecticut and help them support more than 14 million daily commuters.

Revenue and Operating Income:Revenue for our Communication Systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was$1.864 billion,$1.836 billionand$1.855 billion, respectively. Segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was$530 million,$563 millionand$574 million, respectively. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was25 percent,36 percentand37 percent, respectively. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived outside of the U.S. was approximately 51 percent. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately52 percent. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business - International Business” of this Report.

For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Space and Intelligence Systems

Space and Intelligence Systems provides complete Earth observation, environmental, geospatial, space protection, and intelligence solutions from advanced sensors and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics, for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers.

Our complete Earth observation solutions encompass comprehensive space and airborne remote sensing capabilities, from end-to-end remote sensing systems for global and regional situational awareness that enable mission success to integrated processing solutions on the ground and on airborne platforms that extract critical information and reduce time to high-confidence decisions. We specialize in airborne and space-based remote sensing payloads that offer active and motion imaging as well as data processing, exploitation and dissemination. We also develop small, affordable, high-resolution, commercial imaging systems, and our imaging systems are integral components of U.S. high-resolution commercial remote sensing satellite systems.

We provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. We are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors. From unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas, our solutions deliver significantly higher data rates and access greater amounts of bandwidth than standard satellite antenna technologies.









We design, develop, manufacture and integrate agile and high-performance modular, reconfigurable space payloads that maximize mission performance. We help our customers achieve their space missions more quickly and cost effectively by brokering, designing and integrating multimission satellite hosted payloads. For example, we supplied Aireon, LLC with automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast (“ADS-B”) receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. The payloads will be hosted on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation, but will provide a capability separate from the main mission of the constellation. We are placing additional commercial missions on the Iridium NEXT constellation by partnering with exactEarth Ltd. to track maritime vessels.

We provide quality optic solutions for industries such as aerospace, astronomy and microlithography. We manufacture a full range of precision optics and optical systems, including mirrors, mounts and metering structures, for space-based platforms as well as systems based on the ground, at sea and in the air, specializing in large precision optics. For example, we manufacture small to large optical flats for ground-based laser fusion programs, medium and large off-axis aspheric mirrors for orbiting telescopes, and a varying size range of spherical and aspherical mirrors for ground-based telescopes.

Our environmental solutions monitor and evaluate our global environment with ground-based and space-based remote sensing, change detection and data processing. We design, develop and build instruments to help measure, understand and monitor real-time weather and long-term climate cycles to support decision making for governmental agencies, scientists, businesses and policy makers. Our technologies capture, analyze and visualize data from various altitudes to improve understanding of weather and climate and enhance Earth observation. In space, advanced environmental satellite systems utilize our imagers and sounders to deliver weather and climate data back to Earth at high resolutions and speeds. On the ground, our satellite ground data processing systems, consisting of complex suites of hardware and software, receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into actionable information. Our weather ground systems, for example, are capable of handling multiple missions simultaneously across a common architecture and enable users to realize the full benefits of our new environmental imaging technology. Our climate monitoring instruments help provide a complete picture of carbon dioxide cycles and other greenhouse gases from space, air and ground.

An example of our capabilities is the solutions we provide under the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”) Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite - Series R (“GOES-R”) Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs. We are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. We also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communication links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communication link to direct data users. As an additional example, we are providing weather payloads for satellites for NASA’s Joint Polar Satellite System program.

We provide integrated real-time, autonomous geospatial solutions, extending from image and data collection through processing, exploitation and dissemination of actionable intelligence. Our specialized capabilities include highly reliable remote sensing systems for ground, air and space; data encryption; information processing; real-time forensic and predictive analytics; and system performance modeling and simulation. We also provide ground processing and analytics solutions that map and monitor Earth for a variety of commercial and government users.

Our geospatial solutions suite of products and services are designed to make it easier and more cost effective for customers to analyze the physical environment and obtain actionable information for more informed decisions, through advanced data collection sources, innovative software tools, and high-volume, high-accuracy processing services. Examples of these advanced products and solutions include:

•Our ENVI® image analysis software that analyzes virtually any geospatial data type;

•Our Geiger-mode light detection and ranging (“LiDAR”) sensor, which measures distance by illuminating a target with a laser light, that makes large-scale and high-density data collections possible at affordable prices;

•Our Jagwire™ web-based geospatial data management software that helps quickly discover data, transform it into information and deliver it to decision makers, even in low bandwidth environments;

•Our imagery products for two of three regions for the Foundation GEOINT Content Management (“FGCM”) program under two 5-year, single-award IDIQ contracts awarded in fiscal 2014 by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”);

•Our geospatial marketplace that offers online access to geospatial imagery and data, off-the-shelf data products such as digital elevation models and orthomosaics, and customized geospatial products for visual simulation databases or to meet customer-specific project requirements; and

•Tracking maritime vessels and delivering robust global shipping information through access to Satellite Automated Identification System data.

In order to help our U.S. Government customers gain, maintain and exploit space superiority, we provide the full spectrum of enterprise architecture services that support the long-term planning, development, integration and sustainment of highly advanced, mission-critical space-based surveillance, communication, navigation and meteorology systems. We provide









space situational awareness and design, integrate and sustain offensive and defensive space control systems. For example, we sustain, maintain and modernize large radar installations globally and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems that support U.S. missile warning, missile defense and space surveillance missions for the U.S. Air Force under the System Engineering and Sustainment Integrator (“SENSOR”) program. We also provide COTS, highly flexible, satellite mission command and control (“C2”) systems for government and commercial applications. Our satellite mission C2 systems support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.

We develop, supply and integrate communication and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of classified programs. Serving primarily U.S. Intelligence Community customers, including the NSA, the NGA, the National Reconnaissance Office and the Defense Intelligence Agency, we provide integrated ISR solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. In addition, we have advanced capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. Although classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other U.S. Government programs.

We are a global provider of positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”) products, systems and solutions. For example, our U.S. Global Positioning System (“GPS”) navigation systems comprise high-performance, reliable, cost-effective GPS payload, control and interference location solutions. Our navigation payload technology is an integral component of GPS satellites and supports GPS availability, accuracy and integrity. We currently are deploying advanced technologies under the GPS III program to improve the accuracy and reliability of the next generation of GPS satellites.

Revenue and Operating Income:

Revenue for our Space and Intelligence Systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$1.899 billion

,

$1.007 billion

and

$0.966 billion

, respectively. Segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$294 million

,

$142 million

and

$128 million

, respectively. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

25 percent

,

20 percent

and

19 percent

, respectively. The percentages of this segment’s revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 72 percent and 28 percent, respectively. In fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. Some of this segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included GPS, GOES-R, SENSOR, FGCM and various other classified programs. The percentages of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment’s largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 56 percent, respectively. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately

95 percent

. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Electronic Systems

Electronic Systems offers an extensive portfolio of solutions in electronic warfare, avionics, wireless technology, C4I and undersea systems, for aviation, defense and maritime applications.

We design, develop, produce and sell electronic warfare solutions for airborne, maritime and ground applications to most U.S. military service branches and to classified customers and allied nations. Our electronic warfare capabilities include threat identification, electronic countermeasures, decoys and expendables, strategic and situational support, electronic attack, passive coastal defense, radar, counter-improvised explosive device (“IED”) and border surveillance. We have provided electronic warfare solutions for strategic and tactical fixed-wing and rotary aircraft such as the F/A-18, F-16, B1-B, B-52, C-130H, MH-60, MH-47 and CV-22 aircraft, and we also provide maritime electronic support measures (“ESM”) for surface and subsurface vessels.

Examples of our airborne electronic warfare technology include sophisticated sensor fusion for multispectral situational awareness, as well as internal and podded self-protection and jamming capabilities. Examples of our maritime electronic warfare technology include ESM systems for situational awareness and threat detection, including emitter identification to support tactical decisions and indications of possible hostile intentions; integrated self-protection systems and decoys that operate at every layer of shipboard defense; and electronic attack capabilities to disrupt and deny enemy operations. An









example of our ground electronic warfare technology is counter-radio controlled IED technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments by continually scanning for threatening radio frequency signals and denying enemy use of these portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, without disrupting friendly signals and keeping lines of communication open. We also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions.

We design and manufacture high-performance radar systems and signal intelligence systems for both domestic and international military customers. Our core radar capabilities include air defense radars, air traffic control (“ATC”) radars and airborne multifunction radars. Our advanced radar technologies support military and domestic operation missions in homeland security, law enforcement, search and rescue, disaster relief and environmental science. We provide electronic warfare and signals intelligence systems for reconnaissance and surveillance for electronic intelligence, ESM, electronic counter measures and signals intelligence applications.

We develop advanced, custom solutions which provide our government and commercial customers with self-protection, data protection, enhanced communications and situational awareness. We specialize in satellite-based communication systems, ground electronic warfare systems, commercial wireless technologies, tagging, tracking and locating, and information assurance. To combat the anti-access/area denial (“A2/AD”) threat, we leverage an adaptive multi-platform approach to ensure that users can connect and share data globally without being constrained by terrain or distance. We integrate data devices into A2/AD-resilient architectures which provide a secure global backbone for C4ISR capabilities against sophisticated adversaries.

We have decades of experience designing, testing and integrating advanced avionics equipment, electronics and software, including cockpit communications, digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics, microelectronics and conformal wideband antennas. We are a supplier of avionics systems and products on a variety of aircraft platforms, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet. For F-35 and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications with other network nodes without revealing positions. Our advanced antenna technologies provide communication, navigation, direction-finding and electronic warfare capabilities for military aircraft.

We design and produce aircraft carriage and release equipment and weapons interface systems for fighter jets, surveillance aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the U.S. military and allied forces. Our carriage and release technology provides capabilities necessary for aircraft to successfully deliver mission payloads and support a variety of aircraft stores, including weapons, sonobuoys, electronics pods, fuel tanks and even unmanned vehicles. Our racks and launchers are components on aircraft including the F-35, F-22 Raptor, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15E Strike Eagle, F-16 Fighting Falcon, P-8A Poseidon and MQ-9 Reaper. In addition to current pyrotechnic release technology, we have developed next-generation pneumatic and electronically actuated release systems. Our control electronics provide aircraft with the ability to communicate directly with smart and precision-guidance payloads and create compatibility between a wide range of stores and platforms.

We supply to the U.S. Navy and allied navies a broad range of undersea warfare systems for maritime platforms and environments, including mine sweeping systems, shipboard command and control systems, anti-submarine warfare sonar systems, data link systems, submarine flank and passive towed arrays, and acoustic sensors for military and commercial uses. We produce influence and mechanical mine sweeping systems and mine countermeasures that detect and neutralize subsurface threats to military and commercial maritime vessels. For example, our minesweeping technologies identify and safely detonate acoustic, magnetic and multiple influence sea mines to enable naval operations and keep commercial vessels safe. Our transducer arrays used in sonar and acoustic systems support navigation and situational awareness, through search, detection, tracking and classification of targets, as well as capabilities for anti-submarine and torpedo self-defense.

As noted above, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed the divestiture of Aerostructures.









Revenue and Operating Income:

Revenue for our Electronic Systems segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$1.530 billion

,

$0.584 billion

and

$0.420 billion

, respectively. Segment operating income in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$277 million

,

$97 million

and

$72 million

, respectively. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

20 percent

,

11 percent

and

8 percent

, respectively. The percentages of this segment’s revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 54 percent and 46 percent, respectively. In fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 200 programs. Some of this segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included F/A-18E/F, MET and F-35. The percentages of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment’s largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 10 percent and 48 percent, respectively. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately

80 percent

. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Critical Networks

Critical Networks provides managed services supporting air traffic management, energy and maritime communications, and ground network operation and sustainment, as well as high-value IT and engineering services, to government and commercial customers.

Our managed services supporting air traffic management include implementing and managing large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced, standards-based communications and information processing technologies in order to provide highly reliable, customized, mission-critical communication systems, information networks for voice, data and video and navigation and surveillance solutions that meet the most demanding needs of our customers, including the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and other civil and military air navigation service providers (“ANSPs”), airports, airlines and system integrators. Our networks and information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data.

As an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air traffic control system. We designed and deployed, and are currently operating and maintaining, the FTI network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at approximately 4,500 FAA sites across the U.S. (including administrative sites supported by the FTI network).

As part of the FAA’s Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”) initiative to transform the U.S. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, we are:

•Transforming voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management under the Data Communications Integrated Services (“Datacomm”) program (including the Data Communications Network Service component);

•Delivering systems for modern Voice Over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel under the National Airspace System (“NAS”) Voice System contract;

•Designing and implementing a system that provides real-time weather information across the NAS under the Common Support Services Weather program;

•Providing enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather under a NAS Enterprise Messaging Service IDIQ contract for the Systems Wide Information Management program; and

•Designing, building and operating a nationwide system of radio communications, telecommunications networks, IT and software to deliver highly accurate, networked, real-time surveillance data to the automated systems of the FAA, as the prime contractor on the ADS-B program to modernize from a ground-based to a satellite-based system of air traffic management.

We also have developed a number of other solutions under FAA programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the critical air-to-ground communication links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental U.S.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for Alaska’s general aviation community; a meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the NAS; and a satellite-based, interfacility communication system linking the Alaskan Air Route Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with FAA facilities throughout the region.









We have extended our integrated network systems capabilities to the commercial aviation market with a comprehensive, web-based application suite called Symphony®, which enables key business functions, such as flight information display systems, billing, auditing, resource allocation, environmental monitoring and situational awareness, for airports and airlines to improve efficiencies in their operations.

Our managed services supporting space and ground networks operation and sustainment include design, operations, maintenance, lifecycle sustainment, logistics and advanced engineering services for secure systems and networks to deliver actionable information to advance government missions. For example:

•For the Deep Space Network (“DSN”) at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (“JPL”) and NASA, we operate and maintain the large antennas for the DSN, as well as multiple network and communication systems, several network operations centers and facilities for testing, logistics and maintenance and repair; and we provide maintenance, operations and engineering support for JPL’s Goldstone, California complex. The DSN is an international communication network that supports interplanetary, robotic spacecraft missions conducting radio, radar and astronomy observations of the solar system and beyond and that provides connectivity with the spacecraft and their data-gathering instruments.

•We provide near-Earth spacecraft connectivity for NASA as the prime contractor on the Space Communications Network Services (“SCNS”) program for the Goddard Space Flight Center, which provides most of the communications and tracking services for a wide range of Earth-orbiting spacecraft, such as the International Space Station, the Hubble Space Telescope and the Earth Observing System satellites.

We are a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy and maritime customers. Our Harris CapRock Communications One Clear Path solution provides a global infrastructure that offers teleports on six continents, network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week, a local presence in over 20 countries and hundreds of global operations and field service personnel. We actively support customer locations across North America, Central and South America, Europe, West Africa, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. Our customers include major land-based and offshore energy, mining and engineering and construction companies and leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies. We focus on voice, data and networking solutions that are supported by a global managed satellite network and that connect customers’ remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters, including, for example:

•Satellite communication services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard IT system integration and satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering over 1,000 sites operating worldwide for energy customers;

•Data, voice and networking services to drilling ships operating in offshore Brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships operating in offshore Norway;

•Turnkey managed satellite communications to over 450 offshore supply and commercial shipping and service vessels worldwide; and

•Managed global satellite communication services for a major cruise line across its fleet of more than 100 cruise ships and managed global communication services for more than 30 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences.

Our high-value IT and engineering services for intelligence, defense, civilian and homeland security government customers comprise a broad, end-to-end range of services encompassing designing, developing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communication networks and information systems. Specific areas of services include integrating key capabilities in cyber defense, cross-domain information sharing, broad enterprise IT applications and network and systems architecture for securely accessing, integrating and sharing sensitive data; intelligence services; advanced engineering; enduring mission support; advanced research and development support; enterprise information support; and space launch and range support. We deliver affordable, mission-critical solutions for critical networks, ISR, analytics and other complex applications. We are a systems and network integrator and have positions as a prime contractor on many U.S. Government IDIQ contract vehicles related to IT services. Examples of our IT and engineering services include the following:

•Comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the Defense Information Systems Agency (“DISA”) Crisis Management System;

•Enterprise IT support services to the North American Air Defense Command and the U.S. Northern Command;

•IT integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the U.S. Department of State under the Consular Affairs Support Services Contract in support of U.S. embassies and consulates around the world;

•Serving enduring missions in military and national intelligence, strategic deterrence and defense against chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats, and other core defense programs; and

•Operations and maintenance of a series of airborne radar platforms and associated infrastructure and communications under the Tethered Aerostat Radar System (“TARS”) program to provide persistent, long-range detection and monitoring (radar surveillance) capability along the United States-Mexico border, the Florida Straits and a portion of the Caribbean.









On September 27, 2014, before being acquired by Harris, Exelis completed the spin-off of part of its military and government services business into a separate company, Vectrus, Inc. (“Vectrus”). For a discussion of risks relating to the spin-off of Vectrus completed by Exelis, see “Item IA. Risk Factors” of this Report.

Revenue and Operating Income:

Revenue for our Critical Networks segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$2.233 billion

,

$1.680 billion

and

$1.786 billion

, respectively. Segment operating income (loss) in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

$(106) million

,

$131 million

and

$198 million

, respectively. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was

30 percent

,

33 percent

and

36 percent

, respectively. The percentages of this segment’s revenue under contracts directly with end customers and under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2016 were approximately 88 percent and 12 percent, respectively. In fiscal 2016, this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 500 programs. Some of this segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2016 included FTI, ADS-B, SCNS and various classified programs. The percentages of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 represented by this segment’s largest program by revenue and ten largest programs by revenue were approximately 12 percent and 42 percent, respectively. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived outside of the U.S. was 17 percent. The percentage of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2016 that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately

78 percent

. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business - International Business” of this Report.

For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

International Business

Revenue from products and services exported from the U.S., including foreign military sales, or manufactured or rendered abroad in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1.6 billion (22 percent of our revenue), $1.6 billion (31 percent of our revenue) and $1.5 billion (30 percent of our revenue), respectively. Most of our international sales were derived from our Communication Systems and Critical Networks segments. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Central and South America, Africa and Asia. We have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 of this Report.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. The percentages of our total revenue and international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were approximately 12 percent and 46 percent; 16 percent and 44 percent; and 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively.

Fiscal2016international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.

The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. We believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. In our opinion, these risks are









partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments.

Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Many of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. We frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.

In the Communication Systems segment, principal competitors include Aselsan A.S., Elbit Systems Ltd., General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., Motorola Solutions, Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc., Raytheon Company, Rohde & Schwarz Group, Selex ES (a Finmeccanica Group company) and Thales Group.

In the Space and Intelligence Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems plc, The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and Rockwell Collins, Inc.

In the Electronic Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems plc, The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and Rockwell Collins, Inc.

In the Critical Networks segment, principal competitors include AT&T Inc., BAE Systems plc, The Boeing Company, CACI International, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, CSRA Inc., Engility Holdings, Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, Global Eagle Entertainment Inc., Leidos Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, ManTech International Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company, RigNet, Inc. and Speedcast International Limited.

Principal Customers; Government Contracts

The percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately 76 percent, 64 percent and 67 percent, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal2016. Additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales in our Space and Intelligence Systems segment, our Electronic Systems segment and, with respect to U.S. Government programs in our Critical Networks segment, are made directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based on performance.

Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Government-wide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and multi-vendor IDIQ contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs.

Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding









the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. Our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.

Funded and Unfunded Backlog

Our total Company-wide funded and unfunded backlog in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $10.8 billion, $12.2 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively. The funded portion of this backlog in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $5.1 billion, $5.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. The determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. The level of order activity related to U.S. Government programs can be affected by timing of U.S. Government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. Year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source IDIQ contracts awarded for a specific limited purpose. In fiscal2017, we expect to convert to revenue approximately 68 percent of our total funded backlog as ofJuly 1, 2016. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control.

Research and Development

Company-sponsored research and development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on bid and proposal efforts, in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $309 million, $277 million and $264 million, respectively. A portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets.

Customer-sponsored research and development costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally U.S. Government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). This research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. Customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services.

As ofJuly 1, 2016, we employed approximately9,000engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments.











Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. As of

July 1, 2016

Environmental and Other Regulations

Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. We believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates to historic discontinued operations (other than CIS and Broadcast Communications) for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. We did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal


,


or


. Based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. If future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures.

Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report and inNote 1: Significant Accounting PoliciesandNote 25: Legal Proceedings and Contingenciesin the Notes.

Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our Communication Systems, Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products.

Wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. Equipment produced in our Communication Systems and Critical Networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.









Raw Materials and Supplies

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. We are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. Although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the RoHS environmental regulations in the European Union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. These events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. As of

July 1, 2016

, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. For further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.

Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We had approximately21,000employees at the end of fiscal2016. Approximately 93 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal2016were located in the U.S. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. Approximately 850, or approximately 4 percent, of our U.S. employees are working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. These collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. Exelis and its predecessors have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. For certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters.We previously adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website athttps://www.harris.com/about/corporate-governance. In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.

Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in November 2015 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.















