ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.

HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and information
technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. We are dedicated to developing best-in-classassured communications®products, systems and services for global markets, including RF communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems.

Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive
offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRS.” On June 29, 2012, we
employed approximately 15,200 people. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its
subsidiaries.

General

We structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three reportable operating
segments:



ŸOur RF Communications segment, comprised of (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public
Safety and Professional Communications;

ŸOur Integrated Network Solutions segment, comprised of (i) IT Services, (ii) Harris CapRock Communications and (iii) Healthcare
Solutions; and

ŸOur Government Communications Systems segment, comprised of (i) Civil Programs, (ii) National Intelligence Programs and (iii) Defense
Programs.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our cyber
integrated solutions operation (“CIS”), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we reported CIS as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation (“Broadcast Communications”), which provides digital media
management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we are reporting Broadcast Communications as discontinued operations beginning with our financial results presented in this Report. Both CIS and Broadcast Communications were formerly part
of our Integrated Network Solutions segment. Our results of operations for fiscal 2012 and our financial







position as of the end of fiscal 2012 presented in this Report reflect both CIS and Broadcast Communications as discontinued operations. Our results of operations for all periods prior to fiscal
2012 presented in this Report have been restated to account for CIS and Broadcast Communications as discontinued operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, seeNote 3: Discontinued Operationsin the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”). Except for disclosures related to our financial position as of the end of periods prior to fiscal 2012 or to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in
this Report relate solely to our continuing operations.

Financial information with respect to all of our other activities,
including corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or “Non-operating income (loss)” line items in our Consolidated Financial
Statements and accompanying Notes.

Financial Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with
respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

Description of Business by Segment

RF Communications

RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for military,
government and commercial organizations and also of secure communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation markets. RF Communications is comprised of (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International
Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and Professional Communications.

U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications:

®

Unlike many of our competitors in the U.S. Government market operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we
operate this business on a “commercial” customer-driven business model. This means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast, and provide ready-to-ship,
commercial, off-the-shelf (“COTS”) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements.

Our Falcon III®family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting the U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System
(“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards
and mission requirements of the future. Advances in our Falcon III radios include the support of wideband networking waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations.

Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152 (“152”), is the world’s most widely deployed
JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first Falcon III radio to be fielded. We have successfully fielded more than 180,000 152s across all branches of the DoD, many allies worldwide and U.S. Federal agencies. The 152
offers users a wide range of capabilities, such as legacy Single Channel Ground and Airborne System interoperability; UHF ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications; close-air support; tactical satellite communications







(“SATCOM”); and the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials — International (“APCO”) P25 waveform to provide direct communications with first
responders. The 152 also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our Falcon III AN/VRC-110, a high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle dismount — a “grab-and-go” feature
that delivers continuous communications when removed from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.

The
AN/PRC-152A builds on the 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability, supporting both our Harris-developed Adaptive Networking Wideband Waveform (“ANW2”) for high bandwidth data operation and the JTRS Soldier Radio
Waveform (“SRW”). This is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform.

Our Falcon III multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G (“117G”), is the first JTRS Software Communications
Architecture-certified and National Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1 certified manpack radio system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the transition to a networked battlefield communications environment and high-bandwidth
applications, including streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, intelligence reporting and analysis, collaborative chat, route planning, convoy tracking, checkpoint biometrics and connectivity to secure networks. The 117G is Type-1
certified for narrowband communications, as well as for wideband communications using our ANW2 for high bandwidth data operation and the JTRS SRW. The 117G’s wideband network access capabilities give warfighters and field commanders critical
real-time information. The 117G has been deployed to all branches of the DoD and is being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne applications, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”). For example,
the 117G is currently being developed using our ANW2 to serve as the mid-tier networking backbone for the U.S. Army’s Brigade Combat Team modernization.

Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and systems that range from single integrated circuits to
major communications systems. These solutions include our Sierra®and Citadel®embedded encryption solutions, KGV-72 blue force tracking programmable encryption devices and our new KIK-11
Tactical Key Loader.

®

Public Safety and Professional Communications:We supplyassured communications®systems and equipment for public safety, Federal, utility, commercial and transportation markets, with products
ranging from complete end-to-end wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced IP voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable and mobile single-band and
multiband, multimode radios, to public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions. This business has more than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems around the world.

As part of our business of designing, building, distributing, maintaining and supplying wireless communications
systems, we offer our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access (“VIDA”) network platform — a unified IP-based voice and data communication system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety
agencies by supporting a full line of communications systems, including OpenSky®, NetworkFirst, P25IP, Enhanced Digital Access Communication System (“EDACS”)
and the next-generation 4G Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) communications standard for wireless broadband for first responders. Our VIDA network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide and
regional communications networks in North America, including for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and State of Florida.

In
addition, we are designing and building the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System that will provide public safety communications within the 256,000 square-mile area of the Province of Alberta, Canada; are







supporting mission-critical communications needs of the Oregon Department of Transportation and the Oregon State Police under the Oregon Statewide Radio Project; and have received an order from
the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to deploy a communications network to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety and provide interoperability with public safety agencies. We also have provided 700 MHz band LTE pilot
programs to multiple U.S. cities and successfully conducted the first live, multi-state LTE demonstration for first responders, which enabled them to share streaming video, voice and mapping.

In addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals, we offer our UnityTMfamily of multiband radios, including the Unity XG-100P handheld
radio and Unity XG-100M full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. Our Unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on APCO P25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM
systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver for situational awareness, internal secure Bluetooth®wireless technology, and background noise suppression features. They also include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth,
including a software-only upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation emerging standard for mission-critical communications. Our Unity radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple
organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over most current radio systems for U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry
multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for the RF Communications segment decreased 6.3 percent
to $2,144 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $2,289 million in fiscal 2011, and was $2,067 million in fiscal 2010. Segment operating income decreased 10.6 percent to $703.7 million in fiscal 2012 compared with
$787.0 million in fiscal 2011, and was $707.4 million in fiscal 2010. The RF Communications segment contributed 39 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 42 percent in fiscal 2011 and 44 percent in fiscal
2010. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United States was 40 percent in fiscal 2012 compared with 31 percent in fiscal 2011 and 20 percent in fiscal 2010. U.S. Government customers,
including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 46 percent of this segment’s
total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 63 percent in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of
cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment
markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. See “Item 1. Business — International Business” of this Report.

The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $1,300 million at June 29, 2012 compared with $1,503 million at
July 1, 2011 and $1,764 million at July 2, 2010. We expect to fill approximately 48 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional information regarding funded
backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and
subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Integrated Network Solutions

Our Integrated Network Solutions segment addresses the fast-growing global market for integrated communications and information technology and services and provides a variety of trusted networking
capabilities to support government, energy, maritime and healthcare customers. These capabilities are comprised of (i) mission-critical end-to-end information technology (“IT”) services, (ii) managed satellite and terrestrial
communications solutions and (iii) standards-based healthcare interoperability and image management solutions.

IT
Services:We are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor serving customers in the defense, intelligence, homeland security, civilian and commercial markets by delivering scalable, flexible, secure
solutions that achieve objectives and advance mission readiness.

We have positions as a prime contractor on many key
Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contract vehicles related to IT services, including on four IDIQ contract vehicles awarded to us in fiscal 2012. Our business is a standards and process driven enterprise, our IT
services platform follows strict methodologies, and we have attained







high-level, specialized IT services registrations and ratings. We invest in the expertise of our employees to ensure currency with evolving technologies and promote optimal service delivery, and
we have a mix of clearances that enable us to support our broad customer base. Our business is built around a firm fixed-price, performance-based contract portfolio, providing the ability to leverage our workforce across multiple engagements to
adapt quickly to specific customer requirements. In the U.S., our operational footprint offers a physical presence in all 50 states and provides support to more than 10,000 customer sites in 300 of the largest U.S. cities.

Examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure communications systems and information networks
for high-profile customers include the following:



ŸWe provide operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air Force
50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control of various space programs managed by
the DoD and other national security space organizations, under the Network and Space Operations and Maintenance (“NSOM”) program;

ŸWe provide the U.S. Department of the Navy with comprehensive, end-to-end support for data, video and voice communications for over 700,000 users
as a Tier One subcontractor under the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (“NMCI”) program;

ŸWe provide operations and maintenance support for the U.S. Navy Cyber Forces Command OCONUS Navy Enterprise Network as a Tier One subcontractor;

ŸWe provide the U.S. Transportation Command (“USTC”) at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois with technical and support services to ensure
information security of the USTC Distribution Process Owner Secure Enclave, as well as numerous applications hosted within the secure network;

ŸWe provide the Government of Canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the CF-18 Hornet fighter aircraft under
the CF-18 Avionics Optimized Weapon System Support program;

ŸWe provide IT integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the U.S. Department of State,
Bureau of Consular Affairs in support of more than 240 U.S. embassies and consulates around the world;

ŸWe provide comprehensive clinical data management for the National Cancer Institute’s intramural clinical trials program;

ŸWe provide system maintenance and engineering for the Defense Information Systems Agency Crisis Management System;

ŸWe maintain networks that enable over 12 million U.S. military members and their families to receive goods and services at 250 locations
around the world for the Defense Commissary Agency; and

ŸWe provide IT infrastructure and follow-on operations and maintenance support for the relocation of the U.S. Army Materiel Command Headquarters
building to Huntsville, Alabama, and we delivered the migration and consolidation of the communications systems for nine U.S. Southern Command buildings into a new headquarters complex.

Harris CapRock Communications:We are a global provider of managed satellite and terrestrial communications
solutions, specifically for remote and harsh environments, including for energy, maritime and government customers. We own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; five network operations centers running
24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 125 countries, including across North America, Central and South America, Europe,
West Africa and Asia-Pacific. Our customers include BP, Baker Hughes, Bristow Group, Chevron, Diamond Offshore, ExxonMobil, Halliburton, MODEC, Shell, Transocean, KBR, Green Reefers, Gulf Offshore, Nabors, Seatrans, Oceaneering, Subsea 7, Royal
Caribbean Cruise Lines, the DoD, the Department of Homeland Security, other Federal civilian U.S. Government agencies, and foreign governments and allied forces, and we are a preferred supplier to the Schlumberger group. We combine satellite,
terrestrial and wireless technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers’ remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. Our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote
sites and are supported by the largest global managed satellite network in the world.

Harris CapRock Communications operations
are the result of our combination in fiscal 2011 of (i) CapRock Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including CapRock Communications, Inc. (collectively, “CapRock”), a global provider of mission-critical, managed satellite
communications services for the government, energy and maritime industries, which we acquired on July 30, 2010; (ii) the Schlumberger group’s Global Connectivity Services business (“Schlumberger GCS”), a provider of
satellite and terrestrial communications services for the worldwide energy industry, which we acquired on April 4, 2011; and (iii) the terrestrial network infrastructure assets of the government business of Core180, Inc. (the “Core180
Infrastructure”) that we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, with (iv) our existing Maritime Communications Services operations.







Examples of our fully-managed end-to-end communications services to critical operations in
remote and harsh environments include:



ŸProviding complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard IT system integration and satellite
bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer;

ŸProviding data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore Brazil for a major drilling contractor, Brasdril Sociedad de
Perfurações Ltda., under a four-year contract;

ŸProviding offshore satellite communications under a contract with Odfjell Drilling in Norway;

ŸProviding global communications services on board 34 cruise ships under a five-year contract with Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. to improve overall
communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences;

ŸDelivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the North Sea, Brazil, Australia and Indian
Pacific regions under a five-year contract with Farstad Shipping;

ŸProviding managed communication services on over 300 vessels worldwide for a variety of commercial shipping and service vessels;

ŸProviding managed satellite communication services covering 2,000 commercial vessels located around the globe under a five-year contract with a
customer in the Asia Pacific region;

ŸOperating the Offshore Communications Backbone, a modular system of seafloor communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in the eastern
Mediterranean Sea under a three-year master service agreement;

ŸProviding end-to-end terrestrial and satellite communications services and solutions to a leading global helicopter transportation company under a
five-year contract;

ŸProviding C-, Ku-, and X-band space segment capacity, monitoring and control, teleport services, and operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers
operating in Asia, Europe, the United States and all major ocean regions under task orders on the DISN Satellite Transmission Services — Global and Future Commercial SATCOM Acquisition contracts;

ŸProviding managed network services and more than 400 MHz of commercial satellite capacity to four separate U.S. Government agencies,
supporting a range of missions, including airborne ISR, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations; and

ŸProviding a fully-managed, end-to-end communications solution using both terrestrial and satellite capabilities under a five-year contract with a
classified customer.

Healthcare Solutions:We provide enterprise intelligence
solutions and services for government and commercial customers — including systems integration, intelligent infrastructure, interoperability, imaging and other IT solutions. We are a leader in Federal healthcare IT integration, and we also
offer commercial providers a full range of interoperability solutions, including IT infrastructure and management, clinical workflow management and analytics, health information exchange, portals, business intelligence and image management. Our
products, systems and services help improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and outcomes by ensuring that the right information travels, with security and privacy, to the right person, at the right time, on the right device, at the
point of care. Examples include the following:



ŸWe were one of eight companies in the large business category awarded the five-year T4 IDIQ contract vehicle from the Department of Veterans Affairs
(“VA”) designed to upgrade the VA’s IT system and covering services that will streamline and modernize VA operations, including patient care delivery at more than 150 VA hospitals;

ŸUnder the T4 IDIQ vehicle, we are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the DoD and the VA
under a five-year contract, potentially worth $80 million, and (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for VA medical centers under a two-year contract, potentially worth $19 million;

ŸWe are deploying under the VA’s Enhance the Veteran Experience and Access to HealthCare blanket purchase agreement a Surgery Quality and Workflow
Manager solution to all of the 130 VA medical centers that perform surgery, to support the surgery process from the initial evaluation through the completion of the surgery and follow-up and result in improved patient safety, operational efficiency
and communication with the veteran’s family regarding surgery progress;

ŸWe operate, maintain and enhance the VA’s enterprise wide storage, retrieval and viewing of medical images and artifacts under the Veterans Health
Information Systems and Technology Architecture Imaging contract, and, as a result of our services, VA clinicians have access to a veteran’s medical images at the point of care regardless of where in the VA enterprise such images were captured;







ŸWe are creating under the VA’s Enterprise Management Foundation Federated Data Repository program a centralized network monitoring system that
will provide the VA with a unified view of its critical infrastructure; and

ŸWe are implementing statewide Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) infrastructures in Florida and Oregon to connect physicians, hospitals,
regional HIEs and state government agencies.

In addition to providing interoperability solutions for
large-scale health information exchange enterprises, such as the VA, the DoD and certain states, we also have extended our interoperability solutions to the private sector. On April 4, 2011, we acquired Carefx Corporation (“Carefx”),
which provides interoperability workflow solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers, and its software solution suite, Fusionfx, gives healthcare providers a unified look at patient data and closes data gaps to ensure a more
consistent, higher quality experience for the patient, reducing clinical errors and increasing individual productivity. Also in fiscal 2011, we formed Peake Healthcare Innovations, LLC, a joint venture with Johns Hopkins Medicine to focus on
developing next-generation medical image management solutions to be deployed by the Johns Hopkins Health System and later marketed to hospitals, accountable care organizations and healthcare providers around the United States.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for the Integrated Network Solutions segment increased
8.7 percent to $1,571 million in fiscal 2012 compared with $1,445 million in fiscal 2011, and was $1,000 million in fiscal 2010. Segment operating income decreased 22.9 percent to $69.9 million in fiscal 2012 compared with
$90.7 million in fiscal 2011, and was $119.9 million in fiscal 2010. The Integrated Network Solutions segment contributed 29 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with 27 percent in fiscal 2011 and 21 percent in fiscal
2010. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United States was approximately 28 percent in fiscal 2012 compared with 16 percent in fiscal 2011 and 9 percent in fiscal 2010.

The following information pertains to the portions of this segment’s operations in connection with U.S. Government programs
(“Integrated Network Solutions’ government business”):



ŸSome of the more significant programs in fiscal 2012 included the U.S. Air Force Network Centric Solutions contract, NMCI, the Defense Information
Systems Network Access Transport Services program, the National Reconnaissance Office “Patriot” program and NSOM;

ŸThe largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 9 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal 2012
compared with approximately 10 percent in fiscal 2011 and 16 percent in fiscal 2010;

ŸThe five largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately 31 percent of this segment’s total revenue in
fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 38 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 55 percent in fiscal 2010;

ŸU.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the
U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 66 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 74 percent in fiscal 2011 and
approximately 93 percent in fiscal 2010; and

ŸFor Integrated Network Solutions’ government business, in fiscal 2012, approximately 70 percent of revenue was under direct contracts with
customers and approximately 30 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately 74 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 26 percent of revenue under
contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2011 and approximately 60 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately 40 percent of revenue under contracts with prime contractors in fiscal 2010.

For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of
revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through
established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. See “Item 1. Business — International
Business” of this Report.

The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was $930 million at June 29,
2012 compared with $765 million at July 1, 2011 and $390 million at July 2, 2010. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $1,174 million at June 29, 2012 compared with $1,295 million at July 1, 2011 and $772
million at July 2, 2010. We expect to fill approximately 78 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under
“Item 1. Business — Funded and







Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
“Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Government Communications Systems

Government Communications Systems
conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily
the U.S. Government, and is comprised of (i) Civil Programs, (ii) National Intelligence Programs and (iii) Defense Programs.

Civil Programs:We provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the
U.S. civilian Federal market, including the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). We use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs that
integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and information processing and to achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and information systems for large-scale,
geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground data processing and mission
command-and-control (“C2”) systems. Our ground data processing systems consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable information. Our C2 systems feature COTS design and
high levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.

For example, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in July 2002, with a potential value of
$5 billion, for the Federal Aviation Administration Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air traffic control system. FTI is
a modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 FAA sites across the United States. We designed and deployed the FTI network and it is fully operational.

Other FAA programs under which we have developed solutions include the following:



ŸThe Operational and Supportability Implementation System (“OASIS”), for which we are the prime contractor and which provides integrated
weather briefing and flight planning capabilities for preflight weather briefings and in-flight updates for Alaska’s general aviation community. In fiscal 2011, we were awarded a follow-on contract by the FAA to upgrade and manage the OASIS
system;

ŸThe Weather and Radar Processor (“WARP”) system, a meteorological data processing system serving the en-route air traffic control environment
that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the National Airspace System (“NAS”). In fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year contract, with a potential value
of $97 million, by the FAA under the WARP Maintenance and Sustainment Services II program to continue to maintain the WARP system by providing hardware and software maintenance, depot support, on-site field support and engineering services
at 22 operational FAA facilities in the United States;

ŸThe Voice Switching and Control System, which provides the critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic
controllers throughout the continental United States; and

ŸThe satellite-based Alaskan NAS Interfacility Communications System (“ANICS”), which links the Alaskan Air Route Traffic Control Center in
Anchorage with 64 FAA facilities throughout the region. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we were selected as the prime contractor under the Alaska Satellite Telecommunications Infrastructure program for a 10-year contract, with a potential value
of $85 million, from the FAA to upgrade the ANICS network by replacing and upgrading components and providing a new network management system, system security enhancements, logistics support and training in order to increase network performance
and availability while reducing the FAA’s operating and maintenance costs.

Another example of our
capabilities relates to NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite — Series R (“GOES-R”) Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs. Under two ten-year contracts, with an aggregate potential value of
approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data and generate and
distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. We also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command, telemetry and
sensor data, as well as the communications link to







direct data users. The new antennas will operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites. In fiscal 2012, we received a
follow-on contract, potentially worth $51 million, from NOAA for the GOES-R Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs.

We
also are modernizing, under a five-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (“SGSS”) program for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”), the ground
segment of the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (“TDRSS”) network used by satellites and spacecraft in low-Earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in White Sands, New Mexico and in Guam. The modernization will
improve situational awareness for TDRSS network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs. The SGSS program builds on our
30-year incumbency with the TDRSS. We were a primary developer of the original TDRSS ground system in White Sands in the early 1980s, and we also provided the large deployable antennas on the original TDRSS satellites for the space segment of the
original program.

National Intelligence Programs:A significant portion of this business
involves classified programs. While classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the business risks
associated with those programs do not differ materially from the business risks of other U.S. Government programs.

We are
a major developer, supplier and integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the Intelligence
Community into a more collaborative enterprise. Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including NSA, the National Reconnaissance Office (“NRO”) and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(“NGA”), we provide integrated ISR solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic
and tactical planners and decision makers. Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed. We strive to produce innovative ISR solutions that
provide our customers with information dominance for battle-space superiority.

During fiscal 2012, we were awarded a number of new contracts and follow-on contracts under classified programs. Also in fiscal 2012, we were awarded a five-year contract to supply Aireon, LLC with
81ADS-B receiver payloads that will be part of a satellite-based aircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control and that will be hosted on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation.

Defense Programs:We develop, supply and integrate communications and information processing products,
systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the ongoing transformations of military communications for
U.S. and international customers. Our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical boundaries in support of the
DoD’s full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. Our major







technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and SATCOM terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission
antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications.

For example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the military to take its communications infrastructure
with it, creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks across the battlefield. Our Highband Networking RadioTM(“HNR”) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth, on-the-move communications among users of widely
dispersed local area networks by establishing line-of-sight connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a Harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best communications path available, allowing seamless communication of
voice, video and data to all levels of command. Our HNR system was deployed to the U.S. Army 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) 2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq, which was the first combat deployment of the HNR system, and also was
selected by the U.S. Army for rapid deployment into Afghanistan. Our HNRs form the communications backbone of the U.S. Army’s new Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System, and we are currently producing and delivering
HNRs under the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (“WIN-T”) program.

In fiscal 2011, we introduced KnighthawkTM3G, a ruggedized, highly mobile tactical base station that enables warfighters on the move to maintain third
generation cellular services in locations with limited or no cellular connectivity. Knighthawk 3G is a customizable cellular network in a box compatible with COTS equipment, including smartphones and tablets. In fiscal 2012 we were selected, as part
of the Boeing team, to continue to provide critical communications capability for the U.S. Missile Defense Agency’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense Development and Sustainment Contract.

Examples of ongoing programs for us include the following:



ŸThe U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract, with a
potential value of $600 million, awarded to us in fiscal 2009, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support IP and
Dedicated Circuit Connectivity within the Global Information Grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;

ŸThe F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide high-performance, advanced
avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link communications subsystems primarily
intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allow F-35s to communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions;

ŸThe WIN-T program for the U.S. Army, for which we are designing and testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven
enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network solutions such as our HNR system; and

ŸThe Commercial Broadband Satellite program for the U.S. Navy, for which we supply broadband multiband SATCOM terminals that support essential
mission requirements and provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as high-speed Internet access and video communications.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:







directly or through prime contractors, accounted for approximately 97 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 97 percent in fiscal 2011 and
approximately 94 percent in fiscal 2010. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see
“Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

The funded backlog of
unfilled orders for this segment was $875 million at June 29, 2012 compared with $775 million at July 1, 2011 and $848 million at July 2, 2010. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $2,763 million at June 29, 2012
compared with $3,193 million at July 1, 2011 and $2,504 million at July 2, 2010. We expect to fill approximately 83 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2013, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our
U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

International Business

Revenue from products and services exported from the United States (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,330.1 million (24 percent of our total revenue) in
fiscal 2012 compared with $1,003.4 million (19 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2011 and $454.1 million (10 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2010. Essentially all of the international sales are derived from our RF
Communications and Integrated Network Solutions segments. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial
information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained inNote 24: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Central and South America, and Asia. We have also
established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the Registrant” of this Report.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of
products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer
in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting
the final sales prices paid by the customer. Revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2012 represented 12 percent of our total revenue and approximately 48 percent of our international revenue, compared with revenue from indirect
sales channels in fiscal 2011 representing 10 percent of our total revenue and approximately 49 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 representing 6 percent of our total revenue
and approximately 54 percent of our international revenue.

Fiscal 2012 international revenue came from a large number of
countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments,
progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay
competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.

The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the United States differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that the
overall business risk for the international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to which we are subject in international business is contained in
“Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of the international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and
advance payments.

Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Although successful product and systems development is not necessarily dependent on substantial financial resources,
many of our competitors in each of our businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research







and development. In each of our businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and
objectives. Principal competitive factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery
schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. Within the IT services market, there is intense competition among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services market depends
on a number of factors, including the capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of the IT services market.

In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V. (“EADS”), General Dynamics, ITT Exelis, Motorola Solutions, Raytheon,
Rohde & Schwarz, Tadiran and Thales.

In the Integrated Network Solutions segment, principal competitors include Aetna
Medicity, CACI, Computer Sciences Corporation, Dell, EADS/Vizada, General Dynamics, Globecomm, Health Care DataWorks, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, MTN, NCI Information Systems, Northrop Grumman, Optum, Orion Health, Raytheon,
RigNet, SAIC, Stratos, TCS, Telos Corporation, and The Advisory Board Company, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of large companies.

In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and Rockwell Collins.
We frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.

Principal Customers; Government Contracts

Sales to U.S. Government
customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, were 70 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012
compared with 78 percent in fiscal 2011 and 82 percent in fiscal 2010. No other customer accounted for more than 3 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2012. Additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided
under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most
of the sales of our Government Communications Systems segment and of the portions of our Integrated Networks Solutions segment’s operations in connection with U.S. Government programs are made directly or indirectly to the
U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based
upon performance.

Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price
contracts. Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and IDIQ contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under
such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the
payment of a fee. Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus
incentive-fee contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and
(iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government
cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation defense costs.

Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific
scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued from contracts
performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly,
under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either







milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the
contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than
our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts. Our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.

Funded and Unfunded Backlog

Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $6,993 million at June 29, 2012 compared with approximately $7,523 million at July 1, 2011 and $6,266 million
at July 2, 2010. The funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,056 million at June 29, 2012 compared with approximately $3,035 million at July 1, 2011 and $2,991 million at July 2, 2010. The determination
of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of
U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated, including the value of
contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised. We do not include potential task or delivery orders under IDIQ contracts in our backlog. In fiscal 2013, we expect to fill approximately
67 percent of our total funded backlog as of June 29, 2012. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and
program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report.

Research, Development and Engineering







Patents and Other Intellectual Property

Environmental and Other Regulations

Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies

Electronic products are subject to
governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by our Integrated Network Solutions segment, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or
restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our Government Communications Systems and RF
Communications segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our
future products.

Wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to governmental
regulation. Equipment produced by our Integrated Network Solutions and RF Communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to
permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Additionally, Harris CapRock Communications holds licenses for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which authorize operation







of networks and teleports. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have
complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental
reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials and
Supplies

Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between
accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We employed
approximately 15,200 at the end of fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 15,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2011. Approximately 90 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2012 were located in the United States. A significant
number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our
employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://harris.com.Our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make
available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish
to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate
Governance Principles and Committee Charters.We previously adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website athttp://harris.com/corporate_governance/.
In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and
Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
Melbourne, Florida 32919.

Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the certifications required
by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive







Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in October 2011 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any
violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.



