ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    serving government and commercial markets in more than 150
    countries. We are dedicated to developingbest-in-classassured
    communications®products, systems and services for global markets, including RF
    communications, government communications and broadcast
    communications.



Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the
    successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
    Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is(321) 727-9100.Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On July 2, 2010, we employed
    approximately 15,800 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as
    used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its
    subsidiaries.



General

We structure our operations primarily around the products and
    services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report our
    financial results in the following three business segments:



•Our RF Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses;•Our Government Communications Systems segment, comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses; and•Our Broadcast Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Workflow, Infrastructure and Networking Solutions,
    (ii) Media and (iii) Transmission Systems businesses.



In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the
    May 27, 2009 spin-off (the “Spin-off”) in the
    form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all
    the shares of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. (now known as Aviat
    Networks, Inc.) (“HSTX”) common stock owned by us, we
    eliminated as a reporting segment our former HSTX segment.
    Accordingly, our historical financial results have been restated
    to account for HSTX as discontinued operations for all periods
    presented in this Report, and unless otherwise specified,
    disclosures in this Report relate





solely to our continuing operations. For additional information
    regarding discontinued operations, seeNote 3:
    Discontinued Operationsin the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”).



Financial information with respect to all of our other
    activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the
    business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as
    part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or“Non-operatingincome (loss)” line items in our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.



Recent
    Acquisitions

Acquisition of Patriot Technologies, LLC.On
    November 16, 2009, we acquired Patriot Technologies, LLC
    (“Patriot”), which was privately held and had about
    100 employees. Patriot is a leading provider of Department
    of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) healthcare information
    technology (“IT”), imaging and enterprise software
    solutions. We report Patriot within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of Patriot
    expanded our position as a leading provider of integrated and
    interoperable healthcare IT solutions for the
    U.S. Government market. Additionally, we believe the
    acquisition further positions us for providing a comprehensive
    solution addressing the national priority of integrating the VA
    and Military Health Systems.



Acquisition of SignaCert, Inc.On May 28,
    2010, we acquired privately held SignaCert, Inc.
    (“SignaCert”), a leading provider of IT compliance
    solutions that form the foundation for software supply chain
    assurance. We report SignaCert within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of SignaCert
    expanded our position as a leading provider of cyber solutions
    for U.S. Government and commercial customers, strengthened
    our cyber leadership team, brings discriminating technology to
    our cyber portfolio and better positions us to provide trusted,
    comprehensive solutions that address the national priority of
    enhancing critical cyber infrastructure.



Subsequent
    Event — Acquisition of CapRock

On July 30, 2010, after the end of our fiscal 2010, we
    acquired privately held CapRock Holdings, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries, including CapRock Communications, Inc.
    (collectively, “CapRock”), a global provider ofmission-criticalmanaged satellite communications services for the government,
    energy and maritime markets. CapRock’s highly reliable
    solutions include broadband Internet access, voice over Internet
    Protocol (“VOIP”) telephony, wideband networking and
    real-time video, delivered to nearly 2,000 customer sites around
    the world, including many very harsh and remote locations, by
    leveragingbest-of-breedpartnerships, technical expertise and its robust global
    infrastructure that includes four self-owned and operated
    teleports and eleven regional support centers across North
    America, Central and South America, Europe, West Africa and Asia
    Pacific. The purchase price for CapRock was $525 million in
    cash, subject to possible post-closing upward or downward
    adjustment. We will report CapRock within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of CapRock
    increased the breadth of ourassured
    communications®capabilities while enabling us to enter new vertical markets and
    increase our international presence.



Financial
    Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets,
    and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is
    contained inNote 25: Business Segmentsin the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.



Description
    of Business by Segment



RF
    Communications

RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio
    communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for
    military and government organizations and also of secure
    communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility
    and transportation markets. RF Communications is comprised of
    our (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses.



Tactical Radio Communications:We design,
    develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio
    communications products and systems for manpack, handheld,
    soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard
    applications that operate in various radio frequency
    bands — high-frequency (“HF”), very
    high-frequency (“VHF”) and ultra high-frequency
    (“UHF”) — over satellite communications
    (“SATCOM”) and in multiband mode. These radio systems
    are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting
    diverse mission requirements. Our
    Falcon®family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio
    platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software
    upgrades. Our Falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded
    encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable
    network communications capability without relying on a fixed
    infrastructure. This capability allows warfighters, for example,
    to remain connected with each other, their command structures
    and





support organizations, and gives them the ability to communicate
    information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly
    and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and
    success of their missions.



Unlike many of our competitors in the U.S. Government
    market, we operate this business on a “commercial”
    customer and market-driven business model, as opposed to a
    government programs-driven business model. This means that we
    anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and
    development resources, build to our internal forecast, and
    provideready-to-ship,commercial,off-the-shelf(“COTS”) products to customers more quickly than
    customers can typically obtain similar products under
    government-funded programs.



Our Falcon
    III®family of radios is the next generation of multiband,
    multi-mission tactical radios, which supports the
    U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System
    (“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric
    operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the
    full range of current mission and interoperability requirements
    and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical
    standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in
    our Falcon III radios include extended frequency range,
    significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous
    generations and programmable encryption.



Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152(C)
    (“152C”), is the world’s most widely deployed
    JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first
    Falcon III radio to be fielded. We have successfully
    fielded more than 100,000 152Cs, which are widely fielded by all
    branches of the U.S. Department of Defense
    (“DoD”), many allies worldwide and U.S. Federal
    agencies. The 152C offers users a wide range of capabilities,
    such as legacy Single Channel Ground and Airborne System
    (“SINCGARS”) interoperability; UHFground-to-groundline-of-sightcommunications; close-air support; tactical SATCOM; and the
    Association of Public Safety Communications
    Officials — International (“APCO”) P25
    waveform to provide direct communications with first responders.
    The 152C also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our
    Falcon III AN/VRC-110, ahigh-performance,multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy
    vehicle dismount — a“grab-and-go”feature that delivers continuous communications when removed
    from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.





Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and
    systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems, including our
    Sierra®and
    Citadel®embedded encryption solutions and our SecNet
    11®and SecNet
    54tmInternet Protocol (“IP”) communications families of
    communications security (“COMSEC”) terminals.



In the international market, our tactical radios are the
    standard of NATO and Partnership for Peace countries and are
    sold to more than 100 countries through our strong, longstanding
    international distribution channels consisting of regional sales
    offices and a broad dealer network. International tactical radio
    demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications
    modernization and standardization programs to provide more
    sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional
    and emerging threats and to provide interoperability. In fiscal
    2010, we received tactical radio orders from,and/ormade
    deliveries to, a wide range of international customers,
    including Australia, Ethiopia, Iraq, Mexico, Pakistan, Saudi
    Arabia, Sweden and Yemen, as well as other countries in the
    Middle East and Central Asia. Additionally, we are providing
    integrated communications systems for the international market.
    Our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our
    products, but include other





companies’ products, as well as a wide variety of
    applications, in order to implement integrated command, control,
    communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) systems for many different
    types of platforms, including command post and transit case
    systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and
    specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in
    border security and surveillance systems.



Public Safety and Professional
    Communications:We supplyassured
    communications®systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility,
    commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging
    from completeend-to-endwireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced IP
    voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and
    provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable
    and mobile single-band and multiband radios, to public
    safety-grade broadband video and data solutions. On May 29,
    2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the Tyco
    Electronics wireless systems business (“Wireless
    Systems”) (formerly known as M/A-COM). Our acquisition of
    Wireless Systems served to form our Public Safety and
    Professional Communications business. This business has more
    than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems
    around the world.



As part of our business of designing, building, distributing,
    maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we
    offer our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access
    (“VIDA”) network solution — a unique,cost-effectiveIP-basednetwork that is flexible, responsive, expandable and easily
    upgradeable, and that supports a full line of communications
    systems, including
    OpenSky®,

    NetworkFirst,
    P25IPand

    Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
    (“EDACS”), allowing seamless interconnection of
    diverse systems. Our VIDA network solutions currently serve as
    the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide
    and regional communications networks in North America, including
    the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and State of Florida.



tm

®



Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue
    for the RF Communications segment increased 17 percent to
    $2,067 million in fiscal 2010 compared with
    $1,761 million in fiscal 2009, and was $1,507 million
    in fiscal 2008. Segment operating income increased
    24 percent to $707.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared
    with $571.5 million in fiscal 2009, and was
    $525.5 million in fiscal 2008. The RF Communications
    segment contributed 40 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2010 compared with 35 percent in fiscal 2009 and
    32 percent in fiscal 2008. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was 20 percent in fiscal 2010 compared with
    39 percent in fiscal 2009 and 27 percent in fiscal
    2008. U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    66 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal
    2010 compared with approximately 79 percent in fiscal 2009
    and 82 percent in fiscal 2008. For a general description of
    our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated fromcost-reimbursementversus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts” of this Report.



In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.



The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,764 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $922 million at July 3, 2009 and $982 million at
    June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    79 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded backlog is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded
    Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks
    affecting this segment, including risks relating to our
    U.S. Government contracts





and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —
    Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.



Government
    Communications Systems

Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research
    studies and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable,
    net-centric communications and information technology that solve
    the mission-critical challenges of our defense, intelligence and
    civilian U.S. Government customers, and is comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses. Also, as described under “Item 1.
    Business — Subsequent Event — Acquisition of
    CapRock” of this Report, on July 30, 2010, we acquired
    CapRock, which we will report within our Government
    Communications Systems segment.



Defense Programs:We develop, supply and
    integrate communications and information processing products,
    systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace,
    terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions,
    and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies
    that support the military’s ongoing transformation to
    network-centric communications. Our technologies are providing
    advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure
    timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic,
    operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s
    full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics
    missions. Our major technology capabilities include SATCOM
    terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard
    applications; flat-panel and phased-array antennas; aviation
    electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios,
    digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and
    microelectronics; high-speed data links and data networks for
    wireless communications and smart weapons; and advanced ground
    control systems.



For example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the
    military to take its communications infrastructure with it,
    creating mobile, self-forming and self-healing networks across
    the battlefield. Our Highband Networking
    Radiotm(“HNR”) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth (30
    megabits per second),on-the-movecommunications among users of widely dispersed local area
    networks (“LANs”) by establishingline-of-sightconnectivity using a Harris-developed waveform that
    automatically selects the best communications path available,
    allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all
    levels of command. We announced in fiscal 2009 that our HNR
    system was deployed to the U.S. Army 101st Airborne
    Division (Air Assault) 2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq,
    which was the first combat deployment of the HNR system. In
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded a contract to provide HNRs to form
    the communications backbone of the U.S. Army’s new
    Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System
    (“IBCS”). We also are currently producing and
    delivering HNRs under a Warfighter Information Network-Tactical
    (“WIN-T”) Increment 2 low-rate initial production
    (“LRIP”) contract. HNRs provide the first-ever use of
    directive beam technology to achieve higher throughput over
    longer distances in a robust, self-forming and self-healing
    directional mesh network.



Examples of ongoing programs for us include the following:





•The U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals
    (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a
    ten-year contract awarded to us in fiscal 2009 that is
    potentially worth $600 million, next-generation large
    satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for
    high-priority military communications and missile defense
    systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit Connectivity
    within the Global Information Grid (“GIG”), providing
    critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;

•The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”), F-22 Raptor
    andF/A-18E/FSuper Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
    high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber
    optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image
    processing, digital map software and other electronic
    components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link
    (“MADL”) communications subsystems primarily intended
    for stealth platformair-to-aircommunications and which allow F-35s to communicate in a stealth
    fashion with other network nodes without revealing their
    positions;

•The WIN-T program for the U.S. Army, for which we are
    designing and testing the wireless transmission system
    architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for
    wirelesson-the-movecommunications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure
    wireless network solutions such as our HNR system;

•The Multiple Launch Rocket System (“MLRS”) Improved
    Fire Control System (“IFCS”) program for the
    U.S. Army, for which we provide the launcher interface
    unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit; and

•The Commercial Broadband Satellite Program (“CBSP”)
    for the U.S. Navy, for which we supply broadband multiband
    SATCOM terminals that support essential mission requirements and
    provide enhancedmorale-relatedcommunications services such as high-speed Internet access and
    video communications, and for which we successfully completed in
    fiscal 2010 development of the Unit Level Variant
    (“ULV”) and Force Level Variant (“FLV”)
    and delivery of the first production lot of ULV terminals.







National Intelligence Programs:A significant
    portion of this business involves classified programs. While
    classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe
    that the business risks associated with those programs do not
    differ materially from the business risks of other
    U.S. Government programs.



We are a major developer, supplier and integrator of
    communications and information processing products, systems and
    networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community
    programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the
    Intelligence Community into a more collaborative enterprise.
    Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency
    customers, including NSA and the National
    Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide ISR
    solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection
    accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time
    mission data and intelligence reference data for display and
    analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers.
    Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst
    workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been
    collected and processed. We strive to produce innovative ISR
    solutions that provide our customers with information dominance
    for battle-space superiority.



state-of-the-art

man-portable,



During fiscal 2010, we were awarded a number of new contracts
    and follow-on contracts under classified programs. We also have
    expanded our capabilities and customer footprint in the cyber
    security market through our acquisition of Crucial Security,
    Inc. (“Crucial”) in fiscal 2009. Crucial offers an
    array of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address
    both offensive and defensive IT security challenges, providing
    critical support to Federal law enforcement and other
    U.S. Government agencies.



Civil Programs:We provide highly reliable,
    mission-critical communications and information processing
    systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the
    U.S. civilian Federal market, including the Federal
    Aviation Administration (“FAA”), Census Bureau,
    National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (“NOAA”) and Department of Health and Human Services
    (“HHS”). We use our ability to implement and manage
    large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced
    communications and information processing technologies in order
    to improve productivity and information processing and to
    achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and
    information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed
    enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting,
    processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing,
    storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground
    data processing and missioncommand-and-control(“C2”) systems. Our ground data processing systems
    consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive
    sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable
    information. Our C2 systems feature COTS design and high levels
    of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial
    applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as
    some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.



For example, we are the prime contractor under a15-yearcontract, awarded in July 2002 that is potentially worth
    $3.5 billion, for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure
    (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and
    maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air
    traffic control system. FTI is a modern, secure and efficient
    network providing voice, data and video communications deployed
    at more than 4,500 FAA sites across the U.S., to enhance network
    efficiency, reliability and security and improve service while
    reducing operating costs. We designed and deployed the FTI
    network and it is fully operational. The FTI network consists of
    the Operations Network, the Mission Support Network, the
    Satellite Network and the Microwave Network. The supporting
    infrastructure includes the Network Operations Control Centers
    (“NOCCs”) and Security Operations Control Centers





air-to-ground

on-site



Under the U.S. Census Bureau’s Field Data Collection
    Automation (“FDCA”) program, awarded to us during
    fiscal 2006 in support of the 2010 census, we are the prime
    contractor responsible for integrating multiple automated
    systems. The FDCA program is nearing completion.



In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year
    contract, potentially worth $736 million, to provide a
    complete,end-to-endsolution for NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental
    Satellite — Series R Ground Segment (“GOES-R
    GS”) program, under which we will design, develop, deploy
    and operate the ground segment system, which will receive and
    process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data
    to more than 10,000 direct users. We will also provide the
    command and control of operational satellites under the GOES-R
    GS program. Following the close of the fourth quarter of fiscal
    2010, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth
    $130 million, to supply antennas and control systems for
    NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental
    Satellite — Series R (“GOES-R”)
    program. The antennas will provide communications links for
    command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the
    communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will
    operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be
    compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites.



In our Healthcare Solutions business, we are continuing to focus
    on delivering standards-based interoperable healthcare solutions
    for government and commercial clients with security, privacy and
    patients in control of how their information is shared. For
    example, we are developing and integrating, under a contract
    from HHS, anopen-sourceNational Health Information Network (“NHIN”) CONNECT
    Gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information
    sharing among multiple Federal agencies and regional healthcare
    providers. We are developing a multi-hospital military health
    network with image-sharing capabilities under the DoD Military
    Health System global Healthcare Artifact and Image Management
    Solution (“HAIMS”) program. As described under
    “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report, we acquired Patriot during
    the second quarter of fiscal 2010. In the third quarter of
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded a three-year contract, potentially
    worth $72 million, from the VA for further improvements to
    the complex billing and collection activities of the VA, one of
    the largest healthcare delivery organizations in the world with
    21 networks and 170 medical centers nationwide. We were awarded
    the contract after successfully implementing a pilot project for
    the VA’s Mid-Atlantic region.



state-of-the-art





communications and information systems (“Patriot”)
    program network for the National Reconnaissance Office
    (“NRO”), and (iii) the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet
    (“NMCI”) program network. Our technology,
    countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital
    information systems that support the critical missions of
    U.S. military, intelligence and Federal law enforcement
    customers.



IT Services:We provideend-to-endsolutions in mission-critical IT transformation, managed
    solutions and information assurance. With over 3,000
    professionals performing to the highest industry standards at
    locations worldwide, we offer demonstrated past performance,
    proven technical expertise and innovative solutions in
    supporting large-scale IT programs that encompass the full
    technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment,
    operations and ongoing support. Our distributed workforce,
    present in all 50 states, and extensive experience in
    performance-based contracting and managed IT services, are key
    factors in delivering results to our defense, intelligence,
    homeland security, civil and commercial customers.



Our IT transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on
    proven methodologies to design, implement and manage
    enterprise-wide architectures that align IT goals with
    customers’ business and mission goals. Our standards-based,
    repeatable IT transformation solutions unify, streamline and
    modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across
    distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified,
    flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures.



Our managed services solutions include outsourced staffing and
    infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and
    maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and
    repeatable service level agreement (“SLA”)
    performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price
    environment. Our managed services solutions use an Information
    Technology Infrastructure Library (“ITIL”)-based
    best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting IT and
    communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering
    operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission
    performance.



Our information assurance solutions include architecture
    analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management;
    security assessments; certification and accreditation process
    support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation;
    system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and
    physical security countermeasures. Our information assurance
    solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and
    availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical
    business data over the full IT lifecycle, from infrastructure
    design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance.
    Those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation
    standards, including the Federal Information Security Management
    Act (“FISMA”), the National Security Agency/Central
    Security Service Information System Certification and
    Accreditation Process (“NISCAP”) and the Department of
    Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
    Process (“DIACAP”).



As examples, for NRO, which designs, builds and operates
    U.S. reconnaissance satellites, we provide operations,
    maintenance and support services for its Patriot program network
    in space and on the ground under a ten-year contract awarded in
    August 2004, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of
    NRO’s global analyst community. We are providing the
    U.S. Navy with comprehensive,end-to-endsupport for data, video and voice communications for over
    700,000 users as a Tier One subcontractor under the NMCI
    program awarded in October 2000 and potentially worth
    $1.1 billion. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were
    awarded a Continuity of Service subcontract under the NMCI
    program to extend the support services we are providing and to
    add site support, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal
    2011. Under a five-year contract awarded by the
    U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs (the
    “State 6” program) in August 2009, potentially worth
    $200 million, we provide IT integration of installation,
    training, help desk, passport and configuration management
    services in support of more than 230 U.S. embassies and
    consulates around the world. We also provide system maintenance
    and engineering for the Defense Information Systems
    Agency’s (“DISA”) Crisis Management System.



Additionally, under the Network and Space Operations and
    Maintenance (“NSOM”) program contract awarded to us in
    January 2008 for a six-month base period with six one-year
    options, potentially worth $410 million in aggregate, we
    provide operations and maintenance support at locations around
    the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air
    Force 50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network
    (“AFSCN”), a global, continuously operational network
    of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications
    links that support launch and command and control of various
    space programs managed by the DoD and other national security
    space organizations.



We also have key positions on a number of Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts. We
    are a prime contractor under the U.S. Air Force Network
    Centric Solutions (“NETCENTS”) contract, which
    provides IT installation, integration and operations and
    maintenance services for networks and systems and offers IT
    products for networks. Our NETCENTS task orders include the
    Maxwell Air Force Base and the Overseas Navy Enterprise





Network(“ONE-NET”).We are also a prime contractor under the U.S. Army ITES-2S
    contract, which provides IT installation, integration,
    infrastructure and operations and maintenance services for
    networks and systems. OurITES-2Stask
    orders include the Fort Bliss Department of Information
    Management (“DOIM”), the Army G-1 support and the
    Army.mil website and content support. In the second quarter of
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded an ITES-2S task order for the
    U.S. Southern Command (“USSOUTHCOM”) to migrate
    and consolidate the communications systems for nine USSOUTHCOM
    buildings into a new headquarters complex. We are one of
    59 awardees under the ALLIANT Government-Wide Acquisition
    Contract (“GWAC”) for the General Services
    Administration (“GSA”), which is an IT procurement
    contract broadly accessible to all U.S. Government agencies.



In our Commercial Managed Services business, we are providingend-to-endsolutions and services across our vertical commercial markets,
    including cyberspace, healthcare and “new media”
    broadcast markets. For example, we are providing Health First,
    Inc., a Florida-based healthcare provider, with managed services
    for back office infrastructure and networks. We also are
    collaborating with the Broadcast Communications segment to
    design and manage systems that manage, monitor and play out
    video content for a branded TV channel for the McDonald’s
    fast food chain and systems that combine IP television
    (“IPTV”) and digital signage and IT infrastructure to
    create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for
    the Orlando Magic’s new basketball arena, as described in
    more detail below under “Item 1. Business —
    Description of Business by Segment — Broadcast
    Communications” of this Report.



Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:

GOES-R,



The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,238 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $1,146 million at July 3, 2009 and $836 million
    at June 27, 2008. Unfunded backlog for this segment was
    $3,276 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $4,002 million at July 3, 2009 and $3,760 million
    at June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    77 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided
    under “Item 1. Business — Funded and
    Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating
    to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of
    this Report.



Broadcast
    Communications

Broadcast Communications offers hardware and software products,
    systems and services that provide interoperable workflow
    solutions for broadcast, cable, satellite andout-of-homenetworks worldwide. Those solutions are designed to receive
    content in any format and then manage, move and reformat that
    content for any delivery network to any viewing device.
    Broadcast Communications offers customers a comprehensive,
    single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow
    capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value
    chain,





including content creation, management, distribution and
    delivery. The Harris
    ONEtmsolution for interoperable workflows that depend on IT-centric
    systems, integrated infrastructure and enterprise software
    brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products
    that enable advanced media workflows for emerging content
    delivery business models. Broadcast Communications is supporting
    customers as they upgrade media operations to digital and high
    definition (“HD”) services from analog and standard
    definition (“SD”) services and as they expand services
    for HD television (“HDTV”), IPTV,video-on-demandand interactive TV. This segment serves the global digital and
    analog media markets, providing workflow, infrastructure and
    networking products and solutions; media solutions; and
    television and radio transmission equipment and systems.



Workflow, Infrastructure and Networking
    Solutions:

state-of-the-art

tm

tm

tm

tm

tm

electrical-to-optical

optical-to-electrical

tm

tm

®

tm

larger-format

®

tm

end-to-end



Media:Our media solutions offerings enable
    customers to manage their digital media workflow through a
    portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media
    management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), digital
    signage, broadband, digital asset management and play-out
    automation. Our media solutions products include the Harris
    media software suite and our OSi
    Traffictmsoftware. The Harris media software suite is a unified system of
    interoperable broadcast and media applications based on open
    standards, with a network-, content- andservice-agnosticapproach, which supports customers’ core services and
    business operations, makes data exchange and workflow more
    efficient and facilitates adding services that can lead to new
    revenue streams. Our products also include our
    Velocitytmfamily of editing controllers that employ open standards to
    acceleratetime-to-airand reduce the costs associated with content acquisition,
    production, distribution and media management; and
    Punctuatetmout-of-homeadvertising and digital signage traffic, scheduling and ad sales
    advanced software solution.



Transmission Systems:We develop, manufacture
    and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission
    systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast
    terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile TV
    applications. We can provide single products orend-to-endsystems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of
    transmitters. Our television and radio transmission systems
    solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all
    sizes. We are a leader in television’s transition from
    analog to digital technology and in technology for the
    U.S. digital standard known as “ATSC” and the
    European digital standard “DVB-T.” In fiscal 2007, we
    introduced with LG Electronics Inc. the jointly developed Mobile
    Handheld in-band mobile digital TV system (“M/H”), a
    new technology capable of providing digital TV (“DTV”)
    signals and extendingover-the-airbroadcast TV signals beyond customary TV viewing at home to
    mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile
    phones or laptop computers). Our products also include our
    Maxivatmline of UHF multimedia transmitters, comprised of our Maxiva ULX
    Series of liquid-cooled transmitters for high-power UHF
    multimedia broadcasters and our Maxiva UAX Series of air-cooled,
    solid-state transmitters for low-power UHF transmission.



We are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital
    radio. Our product offerings address the U.S. digital
    standard called “IBOC” (In-Band/On-Channel), which is
    referred to in the market as “HD
    Radio®,”

    as well as international digital standards including
    “DAB” and “DRM.” Our radio transmission
    products include our
    Intraplex®line of audio transport products, includingstudio-to-transmitterlinks, and our
    FLEXSTARtmfamily, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so
    broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability





along with the main program stream, offering listeners 5.1
    surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports,store-and-playcapabilities and real-time navigation.



This segment also is focused on three principal growth areas.
    First, in many international markets, the transition from analog
    to digital broadcasting is just beginning, which we believe will
    result in growing demand for both digital transmission systems
    and related infrastructure. Second, in the U.S. Government
    market for full-motion video systems, we believe we have unique
    technology capabilities. Our Full-Motion Video Asset Management
    Engine
    (“FAMEtm”)

    solution provides our U.S. Government customers with
    greater visibility into increasing amounts of digital ISR
    information, including real-time and archived video, such as
    that collected from manned and unmanned aircraft and
    ground-based sensors. FAME is a COTS-based solution developed
    based on our digital asset management technologies, input from
    intelligence analysts and our Government Communications Systems
    segment’s image processing, system integration and security
    capabilities. Third, in digitalout-of-homeadvertising, our solutions enable advertisers to reach consumers
    on the move, and we believe new systems will be increasingly
    deployed to deliver rich media content in live sports and
    entertainment venues and in retail establishments.



Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue
    for the Broadcast Communications segment decreased
    17 percent to $486 million in fiscal 2010 compared
    with $584 million in fiscal 2009, and was $643 million
    in fiscal 2008. The segment had an operating loss of
    $30.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared with an operating
    loss of $238.0 million in fiscal 2009, which included a
    $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill
    and other long-lived assets, and operating income of
    $33.8 million in fiscal 2008. The Broadcast Communications
    segment contributed 9 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2010 compared with 11 percent in fiscal 2009 and
    14 percent in fiscal 2008. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was approximately 56 percent in fiscal 2010 compared
    with 47 percent in fiscal 2009 and 47 percent in
    fiscal 2008. No single customer accounted for more than
    3 percent of fiscal 2010 revenue for the Broadcast
    Communications segment.



In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.



The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $260 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $247 million at July 3, 2009 and $305 million at
    June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    45 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2011, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report.



International
    Business

Revenue from products exported from the United States (including
    foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was
    $724.6 million (14 percent of our total revenue) in
    fiscal 2010 compared with $1,016.6 million (20 percent
    of our total revenue) in fiscal 2009 and $759.7 million
    (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008.
    Essentially all of the international sales are derived from the
    RF Communications and Broadcast Communications segments. Direct
    export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars,
    whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally
    denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial
    information regarding our domestic and international operations
    is contained inNote 25: Business Segmentsin the
    Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.



Our principal international manufacturing facilities are located
    in Canada and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” of this Report for further information
    regarding our international subsidiaries.



We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the independent representative and may be above
    or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally
    receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those
    prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
    Revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 represented
    6 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    35 percent of our international revenue, compared with
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 representing
    11 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    55 percent of our international revenue, and revenue





from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 representing
    7 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    44 percent of our international revenue.



Fiscal 2010 international revenue came from a large number of
    countries, and no such single country accounted for more than
    3 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are
    paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either
    on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments,
    progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or
    upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred.
    Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to
    provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in
    international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and
    vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain
    customers.



The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
    Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are
    partially mitigated by the diversification of the international
    business and the protection provided by letters of credit and
    advance payments.



Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our
    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability;
    technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability
    to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability
    to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party
    sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness.
    Within the IT services market, there is intense competition
    among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services
    market depends on a number of factors, including the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the
    diverse spectrum of the IT services market.



In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include
    European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V.
    (“EADS”), General Dynamics, ITT Industries, Motorola,
    Raytheon, Rohde & Schwarz, Selex, Tadiran and Thales.



In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal
    competitors include Boeing, CACI, General Dynamics, GTSI, L-3
    Communications, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, Northrop Grumman,
    Raytheon, RigNet, Rockwell Collins, Schlumberger Global
    Connectivity Services, SRA and SAIC. Consolidation among
    U.S. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a
    reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. As a
    result of this consolidation, we frequently “partner”
    or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with
    companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other
    programs.



In the Broadcast Communications segment, principal competitors
    include Avid, Broadcast Electronics, Chyron, Evertz, EVS,
    Harmonic, Miranda, Nautel, NEC, Omnibus, Orad, Open Text, Pilat
    Media, Rohde & Schwarz, Sony Broadcast, Technicolor,
    Tektronix/Danaher, Thomson, Vizrt and Wide Orbit, as well as
    other smaller companies and divisions of large companies.



Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts

Sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, were 76 percent of our total
    revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 79 percent in both
    fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. No other customer accounted for
    more than 2 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010.
    Additional information regarding customers for each of our
    segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment” of
    this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly
    derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors
    to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales of the
    Government Communications Systems segment are made directly or
    indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or
    subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses
    providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for
    termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or
    for default based upon performance.





These U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include
    both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of
    allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types:
    (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the
    payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of
    performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which
    provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified
    limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual
    targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and
    delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts,
    which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the
    discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the
    contractor against pre-established performance criteria. Under
    cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for
    allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on
    contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially
    or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
    regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs,
    lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation
    defense costs.





In fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, approximately
    38 percent, 36 percent and 35 percent,
    respectively, of the total combined revenue of our RF
    Communications and Government Communications Systems segments
    was from fixed-price contracts. GWAC and IDIQ contracts, which
    can include task orders for each contract type, require us to
    compete both for the initial contract and then for individual
    task or delivery orders under such contracts.





Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog

Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $6,526 million at July 2, 2010 compared
    with approximately $6,317 million at July 3, 2009 and
    $5,883 million at June 27, 2008. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $3,250 million at
    July 2, 2010 compared with approximately
    $2,315 million at July 3, 2009 and $2,123 million
    at June 27, 2008. The determination of backlog involves
    substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer
    requirements contracts and development and production contracts
    of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature.



In fiscal 2010, we changed how we define funded backlog to be
    more consistent with industry practices. This change of
    methodology, which we applied retrospectively, had no impact on
    our total backlog, but did result in a reclassification of
    certain amounts of backlog from unfunded backlog to funded
    backlog for prior periods presented in this Report. We now
    define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and
    services for which funding





has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government
    agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily
    unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been
    authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies,
    appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases
    of material contracts that have options we believe are probable
    of being exercised. We do not include potential task or delivery
    orders under IDIQ contracts in our backlog. In fiscal 2011, we
    expect to fill approximately 75 percent of our total funded
    backlog as of July 2, 2010. However, we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will
    become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is
    subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are
    beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the
    backlog of each of our segments is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Description of Business
    by Segment” of this Report.



Research,
    Development and Engineering



Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property



Environmental
    and Other Regulations

Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently available information, we do not expect





expenditures over the next several years to protect the
    environment and to comply with current environmental laws and
    regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending
    climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords,
    to have a material impact on our competitive position or
    financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such
    expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future
    treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent
    requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may
    be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. We
    have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control
    equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste
    minimization and prevention goals. We did not spend material
    amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2010, fiscal
    2009 or fiscal 2008. A portion of our environmental expenditures
    relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained
    certain environmental liabilities. We currently expect that
    amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects
    will not be material in fiscal 2011. These amounts may increase
    in future years. Additional information regarding environmental
    and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report and inNote 1:
    Significant Accounting Policiesin the Notes.



Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Broadcast Communications segment, in particular, is subject
    to domestic and international requirements requiringend-of-lifemanagementand/orrestricting materials in products delivered to customers,
    including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted
    similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not
    applicable to most equipment produced by our Government
    Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We
    believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations,
    where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold
    into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations with respect to our future products.



Broadcast and wireless communications (whether TV, radio,
    satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to
    governmental regulation. Equipment produced by our Broadcast
    Communications and RF Communications segments, in particular, is
    subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid
    interference among users of radio and television frequencies and
    to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment.
    Additionally, our managed satellite communications services
    business holds licenses for very small aperture terminals
    (“VSATs”) and satellite earth stations, which
    authorize operation of networks and teleports. We are also
    required to comply with technical operating and licensing
    requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and
    operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products
    and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and
    services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum
    also could impact our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.



Raw
    Materials and Supplies

industry-wide



Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    contract awards and the timing and availability of
    U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product
    deliveries and customer acceptance.





Employees

We employed approximately 15,800 employees at the end of
    fiscal 2010 compared with approximately 15,400 employees at
    the end of fiscal 2009. Approximately 91 percent of our
    employees as of the end of fiscal 2010 were located in the
    United States. A significant number of employees in our
    Government Communications Systems segment possess a
    U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a
    number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the
    United States is represented by a labor union. In certain
    international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by
    workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we
    believe that our relations with our employees are good.



Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://www.harris.com.Our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available
    free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
    We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form
    free of charge upon request. We also make available free of
    charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and
    proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon
    are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other
    periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All
    reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available
    free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and
    retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the
    SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.



Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report.



Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website atwww.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation,
    1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.



Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In
    addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief
    Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange
    (“NYSE”) in November 2009 in accordance with the
    NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification
    that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.



