ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

HARRIS

Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an international communications and
information technology company serving government and commercial markets in more than 125 countries. We are dedicated to developing best-in-classassured communications®products, systems and services for global markets, including RF communications, integrated network solutions and government communications systems.

Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive
offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRS.” On June 27, 2014, we
had approximately 14,000 employees. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.

General

We
structure our operations primarily around the products and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our operations in the following three business segments:



ŸRF Communications, serving (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and
Professional Communications markets;

ŸIntegrated Network Solutions, serving (i) IT Services, (ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions and
(iii) Commercial Healthcare Solutions markets; and

ŸGovernment Communications Systems, serving (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan to exit our cyber integrated
solutions operation (“CIS”), which provided remote cloud hosting, and to dispose of the related assets, and we completed the sale of the remaining assets of CIS in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our
Board of Directors approved a plan to divest our broadcast communications operation (“Broadcast Communications”), which provided digital media management solutions in support of broadcast customers, and we completed the sale of Broadcast
Communications in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Both CIS and Broadcast Communications were formerly part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, seeNote 3: Discontinued
Operationsin







the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”). Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this Report
relate solely to our continuing operations.

At the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, to leverage the breadth of
our information technology (“IT”) enterprise network and information assurance capabilities for the IT services market, we began managing our cyber security network testing operation as part of our Integrated Network Solutions segment
rather than our Government Communications Systems segment. As a result, we reassigned $2.4 million of goodwill (determined on a relative fair value basis) to our Integrated Network Solutions segment from our Government Communications Systems
segment. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of this change to our business segment reporting structure for all periods presented in this
Report.

Financial information with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to our
business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or “Non-operating income (loss)” line items in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.

Financial Information About Our Business Segments

Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained inNote 23: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

Description of Business by Segment

RF Communications

RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio communications and high-grade encryption solutions for military, government and commercial customers and also of secure communications
systems and equipment for public safety, utility and transportation customers. RF Communications serves (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and Professional Communications
markets.

U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical Communications
Market:

®

Unlike many of our competitors operating on a government-funded programs-driven business model, we operate in this market on a
“commercial” customer-driven business model. This means that we anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and development resources, build to our internal forecast and provide ready-to-ship, commercial off-the-shelf
(“COTS”) products to customers, enabling us to bring products to market faster and adapt to changing customer requirements. We believe the U.S. market is transitioning from operational tempo to a modernization cycle driven by wideband
technology and that demand in the international market is being driven not only by the transition to wideband capability, but also by the need for network system solutions. Our extensive line of radios is designed to operate and interface well
together and support a variety of tactical requirements, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage in the international market, where fully integrated solutions for command, control and communications are often required. We believe our
unique commercial business model that drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our extensive international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market.

Our Falcon III®family of radios is the next generation of multiband, multi-mission tactical radios supporting U.S. and international network-centric operations worldwide. Our
Falcon III radios address the full range of current mission and interoperability requirements and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in our Falcon III radios
include the support of wideband networking







waveforms, extended frequency range and significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous generations. Our Falcon III radios are used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and
airborne applications and include the following:



ŸOur multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G (“117G”), which provides wideband networking capability, enabling enhanced situational awareness
through high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video, simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat and connectivity to secure networks, and which is National Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1-certified for narrowband
communications, as well as for wideband communications using our Harris-developed Adaptive Networking Wideband Waveform (“ANW2”) for high bandwidth data operation and the U.S. military Joint Tactical Radio System (“JTRS”) Soldier
Radio Waveform (“SRW”);

ŸOur 2-channel vehicular radio system, the AN/VRC-118 (“118”), which uses the DoD-developed Wideband Networking Waveform (“WNW”)
over L-band, and which we began shipping in fiscal 2014 under the U.S. Army JTRS Mid-Tier Networking Vehicular Radio (“MNVR”) program;

ŸOur multiband handheld radios, the AN/PRC-152 (“152”), which is the world’s most widely fielded JTRS-approved software-defined handheld
radio and offers a wide range of capabilities, and the AN/PRC-152A (“152A”), which builds on our 152 by adding wideband, networked communications capability and is the first radio of its kind to support both a full range of narrowband
legacy waveforms and wideband networking waveforms in a handheld platform; and

ŸOur multi-channel manpack radio, the RF-340M (“340M”), which is the first and only commercially developed, NSA Type-1-certified radio
offering two channels integrated into the same chassis, and our wideband rifleman team radio, the RF-330E (“330E”), which is the commercially developed U.S. variant of our widely fielded international soldier personal radio.

In fiscal 2014, we continued to invest to position ourselves for tactical radio modernization opportunities,
for example, in developing our 340M and 330E and in incorporating the powerful Mobile User Objective System (“MUOS”) waveform into our products. Our 340M and 330E are our next-generation solutions for the U.S. Army JTRS Handheld, Manpack
and Small Form Factor tactical radio (“HMS”) program, for which the U.S. Army has officially changed its procurement strategy to full and open competition and a multi-vendor award, allowing us an opportunity to compete. We received the
first order for our 340M from a DoD customer in fiscal 2014, and our receipt of NSA certification was a significant milestone needed for deliveries to begin. MUOS is the DoD’s next-generation military satellite communications
(“SATCOM”) system that will deliver cellular-based service through tactical radios. We are embedding MUOS capability in our 340M, as well as offering it as a separate simple and fast software upgrade for widely fielded 117Gs, creating an
opportunity for the DoD to transition its 117G inventory to MUOS-capable radios and quickly maximize the use of the satellite infrastructure.

Examples of significant awards for us in fiscal 2014 included the following:



Ÿ5-year multi-vendor, Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts from the U.S. Army for SRW vehicular appliqué systems,
with a potential total value of $988 million;

ŸA 2-year, $141 million sole-source, IDIQ contract from the U.S. Army for the MNVR program, with an initial order of $8 million for up to 232 radio
systems;

ŸAn $847 million increase in the ceiling value of our sole-source, IDIQ contract with the U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Command
(“CECOM”), which supports international sales of tactical radio systems under the U.S. Government’s Foreign Military Sales program; and

ŸA number of significant international orders, many of which are a part of multi-year programs or larger opportunities, across a broad customer base,
including a $100 million follow-on order from Australia; orders of $82 million and $49 million from two countries in Asia, $78 million from a country in Central Asia and $14 million from the Philippines; orders of $49 million and $15 million from
two countries in the Middle East; orders of $36 million and $21 million from two NATO countries; and a $28 million order from a country in Latin America.

Public Safety and Professional Communications Market:We supply assured communications®systems and equipment for public safety, Federal, utility, commercial and transportation organizations.

We design, build, distribute, maintain and supply wireless communications systems. Our Voice, Interoperability, Data
and Access (“VIDA”) network platform is a unified Internet Protocol (“IP’) based voice and data communications system that provides network-level interoperable communications among public safety agencies by supporting a full line
of communications systems, including OpenSky®, NetworkFirst, P25IPand Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
(“EDACS”). Our VIDA®network solutions currently serve as the backbone in some of the largest and most
advanced statewide and regional communications networks in North America. We also are investing in next-generation, secure public safety-grade Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) solutions for voice, video and data applications.







We also offer a full range of single-band land mobile radio terminals,
as well as our UnityTMfamily of multiband radios,
including a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. Our Unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands in a single radio; operate on Association of Public Safety Communications Officials —
International (“APCO”) P25 conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver for situational
awareness, internal secure Bluetooth®wireless technology and background noise suppression features. They also
include true software-defined radio architecture that allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation standard for mission-critical communications. Our Unity radios’ multiband,
multi-mode capabilities enable a single radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems, providing a significant improvement over many current radio systems for
U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where agencies
responding to a common incident cannot talk to each other.

Other examples of our Public Safety and Professional Communications
solutions and services include the following:



ŸWe are designing and building the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System that will provide public safety communications within the
256,000 square-mile Province of Alberta, Canada;

ŸWe are deploying a communications network for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Authority to increase operational efficiencies, improve safety
and provide interoperability with public safety agencies;

ŸWe are deploying an APCO P25 system for the U.S. Marine Corps Installations East region that also will provide interoperability with civilian agencies;
and

ŸWe are designing and deploying a VIDA network system for the Trinidad and Tobago Ministry of National Security that will improve voice and data
communication and provide interoperability among first responders and the Ministry’s agencies.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:Revenue for our RF Communications segment decreased 1.1 percent
to $1,828 million in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,849 million in fiscal 2013, and was $2,144 million in fiscal 2012. Segment operating income decreased 2.7 percent to $561.5 million in fiscal 2014 compared with
$576.9 million in fiscal 2013, and was $703.7 million in fiscal 2012. The percentage of our revenue contributed by this segment was 36 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with 36 percent in fiscal 2013 and 39 percent in fiscal
2012. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the U.S. was approximately 54 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 44 percent in fiscal 2013 and 40 percent in fiscal 2012. The percentage
of this segment’s revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
through prime contractors was approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 43 percent in fiscal 2013 and 46 percent in fiscal 2012. For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts,
including a discussion of revenue generated thereunder and of cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts” of this Report.

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through
established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see
“Item 1. Business — International Business” of this Report.

The funded backlog for this segment was
$1,134 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $1,341 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $1,300 million at the end of fiscal 2012. Additional information regarding funded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business —
Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal
Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Integrated Network Solutions

Integrated Network Solutions provides integrated communications and information technology (“IT”) and services, including a variety of trusted networking capabilities, to support government,
energy, maritime and healthcare customers. Integrated Network Solutions serves (i) IT Services, (ii) Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions and (iii) Commercial Healthcare Solutions markets.

IT Services Market:We are a leading systems and network integrator and prime contractor providing
mission-critical end-to-end IT services for defense, intelligence, homeland security and civilian government customers. We have positions as a prime contractor on many key U.S. Government IDIQ contract vehicles related to IT services.







Examples of our work in designing, integrating, deploying, operating and supporting secure
communications systems and information networks for complex, mission-critical applications include the following:



ŸWe are providing operations and maintenance support at locations around the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air Force
50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network, a global, continuously operational network of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications links that support launch and command and control (“C2”) of various space
programs managed by the DoD and other national security space organizations, under the Network and Space Operations and Maintenance (“NSOM”) program, and we are a leader in satellite mission C2 systems, which feature COTS design and high
levels of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed;

ŸWe are providing the Government of Canada with engineering and logistics services to support the avionics systems on the CF-18 Hornet fighter aircraft
under the CF-18 Avionics Optimized Weapon System Support program;

ŸWe are providing IT integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and configuration management services for the U.S. Department of
State under the Consular Affairs Support Services Contract in support of more than 240 U.S. embassies and consulates around the world;

ŸWe are providing comprehensive operational and system maintenance support and engineering and technology enhancements for the Defense Information
Systems Agency Crisis Management System;

ŸWe are providing enterprise IT support services to the North American Air Defense Command and the U.S. Northern Command; and

ŸWe are (i) providing electronic health record interoperability to enhance continuity of care between the DoD and the Department of Veterans
Affairs (“VA”), (ii) designing and installing a wireless network for VA medical centers and (iii) improving electronic data interoperability for claims processing, as one of eight companies in the large business category awarded
the 5-year Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology (“T4”) IDIQ contract vehicle from the VA designed to upgrade the VA’s IT system and covering services to streamline and modernize VA operations, including patient care delivery at
more than 150 VA hospitals.

Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions
Market:Harris CapRock Communications is a global provider of end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions to critical operations in remote and harsh locations for energy, maritime and government
customers. We own and operate a robust global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents; network operations centers running 24 hours per day, seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over 275 global field
service personnel supporting customer locations in more than 80 countries across North America, Central and South America, Europe, Africa andAsia-Pacific.Our customers include major land-based and offshore
energy, mining and engineering and construction companies; leading transocean shipping and cruise line companies; and government and military customers with defense and intelligence missions. We combine satellite, terrestrial and wireless
technologies to provide comprehensive communications solutions that connect customers’ remote sites with each other and with distant headquarters. Our solutions focus on voice, data and networking solutions for remote sites and are supported by
a global managed satellite network.

Examples of our end-to-end fully-managed hybrid communications network solutions include
the following:



ŸWe are providing complete turnkey managed satellite communications services, including all shipboard equipment, onboard IT system integration and
satellite bandwidth, under multi-year agreements covering 150 vessels operating worldwide for one energy customer and over 100 vessels operating worldwide for another energy customer;

ŸWe are providing data, voice and internet service to drilling ships operating in offshore Brazil and satellite communications to drilling ships
operating in offshore Norway;

ŸWe are delivering turnkey managed satellite communications to a fleet of 53 offshore supply vessels operating in the North Sea, Brazil, Australia and
Indian Pacific regions and managed communication services on over 300 commercial shipping and service vessels;

ŸWe are providing dual-band satellite voice, data and internet services for a major cruise line across its fleet of 103 ships and providing global
communications services onboard 34 cruise ships for another major cruise line to improve overall communications performance and enhance guest and crew experiences; and

ŸWe are providing managed service networks leveraging 2 GHz of C-, Ku-, UHF- andX-bandcommercial space
segment capacity for monitoring and control, teleport services, terrestrial communications, operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers operating around the world and to classified customers, supporting a range of missions, including airborne
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”), tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of operations.







Commercial Healthcare Solutions
Market:We offer commercial and international healthcare providers a full range of interoperability and business intelligence solutions. Our interoperability solutions include FusionFX®, our new vendor-neutral integrated suite of software tools that advances our previous interoperability platform by
incorporating a new service-oriented architecture foundation and that integrates with leading electronic health record and other legacy systems to securely bring together patient information from across the continuum of care and makes it available
to clinical teams for value-based, accountable and coordinated care. We released FusionFX in fiscal 2014 and have been increasing the numbers of live hospital deployments and system users.

Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:

In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and serviced directly to customers through its sales organization and through established distribution channels. Internationally, this segment
markets and sells its products and services through regional sales offices and established distribution channels. For a general description of our international business, see “Item 1. Business — International Business” of
this Report.

The funded backlog for this segment was $973 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $934 million at
the end of fiscal 2013 and $964 million at the end of fiscal 2012. Unfunded backlog for this segment was $921 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $1,118 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $1,242 million at the end of fiscal
2012. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks
relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this
Report.

Government Communications Systems

Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research and develops, produces, integrates and supports advanced communications and information systems that solve the mission-critical challenges of
our civilian, intelligence and defense government customers worldwide, primarily the U.S. Government. Government Communication Systems serves (i) Civil, (ii) National Intelligence and (iii) Defense markets.

Civil Market:We provide highly reliable, mission-critical communications and information processing systems
that meet the most demanding needs of civilian U.S. Government agencies, including the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). We use our ability to implement
and manage large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced communications and information processing technologies in order to improve productivity and to achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and information systems for
large-scale, geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing, storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground data processing, in which
our systems consisting of complex suites of hardware and software receive sensor data from satellites and turn it into useable information.

As an example of our capabilities, we are the prime contractor and system architect under a 20-year contract awarded in July 2002, with a potential value of $5 billion, for the FAA Telecommunications
Infrastructure (“FTI”)







program to integrate, modernize, operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air traffic control system. We designed and deployed, and are currently operating and
maintaining, the FTI network, which is a fully operational, modern, secure and efficient network providing voice, data and video communications deployed at more than 4,500 FAA sites across the U.S.

We recently have been awarded multiple contracts for essential elements of the FAA’s multi-billion dollar Next Generation Air
Transportation System (“NextGen”) initiative to transform the U.S. air traffic control system to meet future requirements, including:



Ÿ7-year contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $481 million, for the Data Communications Integrated Services (“Datacomm”) program
(including the Data Communications Network Service component) to transform voice-based air traffic control to automated air traffic management;

ŸA 15-year, $291 million NextGen National Airspace System (“NAS”) Voice System (“NVS”) contract to create a modern Voice Over
Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) network for communications among air traffic controllers, pilots and ground personnel; and

ŸA 5-year, $63 million NAS Enterprise Messaging Service (“NEMS”) IDIQ contract that provides the Systems Wide Information Management
(“SWIM”) program with enterprise-wide data sharing for a variety of critical information such as flight planning, traffic flow, surface radar and weather.

We also have developed a number of other solutions under FAA programs, including a voice switching and control system providing the
critical air-to-ground communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic controllers throughout the continental U.S.; an integrated weather briefing and flight planning system for Alaska’s general aviation community; a
meteorological data processing system that generates radar mosaic data for air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to critical subsystems within the NAS; and a satellite-based Alaskan NAS interfacility communications system linking
the Alaskan Air Route Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with FAA facilities throughout the region.

Another example of our
capabilities relates to the NOAA Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite — Series R(“GOES-R”)Ground and Antenna Segment weather programs. Under two 10-year contracts, with
an aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion (including change orders), we are providing a complete, end-to-end solution to design, develop, deploy and operate the ground segment system that will receive and process satellite data
and generate and distribute weather data to more than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and control of operational satellites. We also are supplying antennas and control systems that will provide communications links for command,
telemetry and sensor data, as well as the communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites. In fiscal 2013, the
GOES-R weather program transitioned from the design and development phase to the integration, test and deployment phase.

We
also are modernizing the ground segment of the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (“TDRSS”) network under a 5-year contract, potentially worth $140 million, for the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (“SGSS”)
program for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”). The TDRSS network is used by satellites and spacecraft in low-Earth orbit to relay data continuously to ground stations in White Sands, New Mexico and in Guam. The
modernization will improve situational awareness for TDRSS network operators, upgrade computing and signal processing equipment, enhance reliability and maintainability, improve efficiency and reduce operations and sustainment costs.

National Intelligence Market:A significant portion of this market involves classified programs. Although
classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the business risks associated with those programs do not
differ materially from the business risks of other U.S. Government programs.

We are a major developer, supplier and
integrator of communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the Intelligence Community into a more collaborative
enterprise. Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency customers, including NSA, the National Reconnaissance Office (“NRO”) and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide integrated ISR
solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers.
Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been collected and processed.

For example, our image processing capabilities extend from algorithm development through delivery of operations systems, and we are providing advanced image exploitation and dissemination solutions for
ISR applications by advancing image processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital product generation







techniques. Applicable technologies range from new techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization. Also, our mapping
and visualization capabilities provide complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data, pictures, voice and
video drawn from vast storage banks or from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in fractions of a second. In addition, we have industry-leading capabilities in the architecture, design and development of highly specialized
satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays and on-board processors, which are used to enable next-generation satellite systems to provide the U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic and tactical advantages. We are also a
leader in the design and development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial space telecommunications applications. With more than 50 reflectors in orbit, we are the leading supplier of large reflector apertures and deployable mesh
antenna systems for government and commercial applications.

In fiscal 2014, we were awarded a number of new contracts and
follow-on contracts under classified programs. In addition, we were awarded two 5-year, single-award IDIQ contracts, with an aggregate contract value of $773 million, by the NGA for the Foundation GEOINT Content Management (“FGCM”) program
to provide imagery products for two of three regions-$365 million for Region A for the U.S. Pacific Command and U.S. Northern Command and $408 million for Region C for the U.S. Africa Command and U.S.
Southern Command (the Region C award, however, is currently under protest).

We also are leveraging our core capabilities to
address adjacencies and create new opportunities. For example, we are supplying Aireon, LLC with 81 automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast (“ADS-B”) receiver payloads that will be part of asatellite-basedaircraft tracking system to enhance global air traffic control. The payloads will be hosted on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation but provide a capability separate from the main mission
of the constellation, and we are adding other customers and increasing the number of payloads. In fiscal 2014, we received a $63 million order for a new payload program on the Iridium NEXT satellite constellation, and in the first quarter of fiscal
2015, we were awarded a $495 million multi-vendor IDIQ contract from the U.S. Air Force for the Hosted Payload Solutions (“HoPS”) program for commercial hosting capabilities for U.S. Government payloads, which provides us a contract
vehicle to pursue additional opportunities.

Defense Market:We develop, supply and integrate
communications and information processing products, systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace, terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions, and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies that support the
ongoing transformations of military communications for U.S. and international customers. Our technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic,
operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. Our major technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems and SATCOM terminals for transportable
ground, fixed-site and shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for military jets, including digital maps, processors, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and
high-speed data links and data networks for wireless communications. We also develop and supply state-of-the-art wireless voice and data products and solutions.

Examples of ongoing programs for us in this market include the following:



ŸThe U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a ten-year contract awarded in
fiscal 2009 with a potential value of $600 million, next-generation large satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for high-priority military communications and missile defense systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit
Connectivity within the Global Information Grid, providing critical reach-back capability for the warfighter (and which has started full-rate production); and

ŸThe F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet (“F/A-18E/F”) aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link communications
subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications and which allowF-35sto communicate in a stealth fashion with other network nodes without revealing their positions.

In fiscal 2014, we were awarded an 8-year, single-award IDIQ follow-on contract for $133 million for the
U.S. Navy’s Commercial Broadband Satellite program, bringing total potential program value to more than $250 million; and a 5-year multi-vendor Communication Transmission Systems IDIQ contract from the U.S. Army to provide upgrades and
maintenance of its terrestrial communications networks worldwide.







Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:

The funded backlog for this segment was $918 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $948 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $842 million at the end of fiscal 2012. Unfunded backlog
for this segment was $3,263 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with $2,492 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $2,695 million at the end of fiscal 2012. Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided under
“Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
“Item 1. Business — Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

International Business

Revenue from products and services exported from
the U.S. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was $1,482 million (30 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2014 compared with $1,313 million (26 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2013 and $1,330 million
(24 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2012. Essentially all of our international sales are derived from our RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions segments. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas
sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our domestic and international operations is contained inNote 23: Business Segmentsin the Notes and is
incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries
which operate in Canada, Europe, the Middle East, Central and South America, Africa and Asia. We have also established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international
subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 of this Report.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and
sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or governmental
customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a
discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. The percentages of our total revenue and of our international revenue represented by revenue from indirect sales channels were
approximately 13 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2014 compared with approximately 10 percent and 33 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 12 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2012.

Fiscal 2014 international revenue came from a large number of countries, and no such single country accounted for more than 3 percent of
our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment
often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or
recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.







The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the
U.S. differ from those encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description
of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are partially mitigated by the
diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments.

Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Many of our competitors in each of
our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that our management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions;
ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness.

In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include Airbus DS Communications (formerly Cassidian Communications, an Airbus Group company), Aselsan A.S., Bharat Electronics Limited, Elbit
Systems Ltd., Exelis Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, JVC Kenwood Corporation, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc., the Rohde & Schwarz Group, Selex ES (a Finmeccanica Group company), Tait Ltd. and Thales Group.

In the Integrated Network Solutions segment, principal competitors include Astrium Services Government, Inc. (an Airbus Group company),
Computer Sciences Corporation, Engility Holdings, Inc., Exelis Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, Leidos Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, MTN, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and RigNet, Inc.

In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal competitors include BAE Systems plc, The Boeing Company, Exelis Inc., General
Dynamics Corporation,L-3Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company, and Rockwell Collins, Inc. We frequently “partner” or are
involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.

Principal
Customers; Government Contracts

The percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government
customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2014 compared with
approximately 67 percent in fiscal 2013 and 70 percent in fiscal 2012. No other customer accounted for more than 4 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2014. Additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided
under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most
of the sales in our Government Communications Systems segment and with respect to U.S. Government programs in our Integrated Network Solutions segment are made directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts
containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based on performance.

Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Government-wide Acquisition
Contracts (“GWACs”) and multi-vendor IDIQ contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and
fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may
increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of
an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a
portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions
and certain litigation defense costs.







Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or
fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S.
Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher
than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met.
Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government in amounts
equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. Our production contracts are
mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.

Funded and Unfunded Backlog

Our total Company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $7,202 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with approximately $6,789 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $6,993 million
at the end of fiscal 2012. The funded portion of this backlog was approximately $3,018 million at the end of fiscal 2014 compared with approximately $3,179 million at the end of fiscal 2013 and $3,056 million at the end of fiscal 2012. The
determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of
U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated, including the value of
contract options in cases of material contracts that have options we believe are probable of being exercised, as well as the most probable value of material sole-source IDIQ contracts awarded for a specific limited purpose. In fiscal 2015, we expect
to fill approximately 59 percent of our total funded backlog as of June 27, 2014. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject
to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment”
of this Report.

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures totaled approximately $865 million in fiscal 2014, $900 million in fiscal 2013 and $838 million in fiscal 2012. Company-sponsored research and development costs,
which included research and development for commercial products and services and independent research and development related to government products and services, as well as concept formulation studies and technology development that occurs on bid
and proposal efforts, were approximately $264 million in fiscal 2014, $254 million in fiscal 2013 (including an approximately $18 million write-off of capitalized software in our Integrated Network Solutions segment) and $219 million in fiscal
2012. A portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored research and development costs not otherwise allocable are
charged to expense when incurred. The portion of total research and







development expenditures that was not Company-sponsored — principally funded by the U.S. Government and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services — was $601
million in fiscal 2014, $646 million in fiscal 2013 and $619 million in fiscal 2012. Company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in selected communications and
electronic systems markets. U.S. Government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. As of June 27, 2014, we employed approximately 6,000 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the
technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments.

Patents and Other Intellectual Property

Environmental and Other Regulations

Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies

Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international
requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2002/95/EC on the
Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment
produced by our Government Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to
comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products.







Wireless communications (whether radio, satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to
governmental regulation. Equipment produced in our RF Communications and Integrated Network Solutions segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television
frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Additionally, we hold licenses for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions market for very small aperture terminals and satellite earth stations, which
authorize operation of networks and teleports. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations
and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could
impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and
the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We had
approximately 14,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2014. Approximately 91 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2014 were located in the U.S. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance.
We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the U.S. is represented by a labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In
general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information

General.We maintain an Internet website athttp://harris.com. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon
as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We
also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with
or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters.We previously adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our
website athttp://harris.com/corporate_governance/. In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance
Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary
at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.







Certifications.We have filed with the SEC the certifications
required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in October 2013 in
accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.



