10-K


a2207416z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document


ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

PART IV


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from            to

Commission File Number 1-10989

VENTAS, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

61-1055020

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

353 N. Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

(877) 483-6827

(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $0.25 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a

smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of shares of the Registrant's common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
$8.5 billion, computed by reference to the closing price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. For purposes of the foregoing calculation only, all directors, executive
officers and 10% beneficial owners of the Registrant have been deemed affiliates.

As
of February 14, 2012, 288,915,189 shares of the Registrant's common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2012 are incorporated by reference into
Part III, Items 10 through 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

Unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "us" and "our" and other similar terms in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Ventas, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements regarding our or our
tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing opportunities and
plans, capital markets transactions, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions,
investment opportunities, dispositions, merger integration, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of
management for future operations, and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will," and other similar
expressions are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from our expectations. We do
not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.

Our
actual future results and trends may differ materially from expectations depending on a variety of factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
"SEC"). These factors include without limitation:

•

The ability and willingness of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform
their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with us, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims,
litigation and liabilities;

•

The ability of our tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary
to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness;

•

Our success in implementing our business strategy and our ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and
integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including our acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "NHP"), our pending transaction with Cogdell
Spencer Inc. ("Cogdell") and investments in different asset types and outside the United States;

•

Macroeconomic conditions such as a disruption of or lack of access to the capital markets, changes in the debt rating on
U.S. government securities, default and/or delay in payment by the United States of its obligations, and changes in the federal budget resulting in the reduction or nonpayment of Medicare or Medicaid
reimbursement rates;

•

The nature and extent of future competition;

•

The extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in
reimbursement policies, procedures and rates;

•

Increases in our borrowing costs as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors;

i


•

The ability of our operators and managers, as applicable, to comply with laws, rules and regulations in the operation of
our properties, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients;

•

Changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which we may, from time to time,
compete, and the effect of those changes on our revenues, earnings and funding sources;

•

Our ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend our indebtedness as it becomes due;

•

Our ability and willingness to maintain our qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other
considerations;

•

Final determination of our taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 and for the year ending
December 31, 2012;

•

The ability and willingness of our tenants to renew their leases with us upon expiration of the leases, our ability to
reposition our properties on the same or better terms in the event of nonrenewal or in the event we exercise our right to replace an existing tenant, and obligations, including indemnification
obligations, we may incur in connection with the replacement of an existing tenant;

•

Risks associated with our senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in our operating income
and earnings generated by our properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of food, materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs,
insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties;

•

The movement of U.S. and Canadian currency exchange rates;

•

Year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") and the effect of those changes on the
rent escalators contained in our leases, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred"), and our earnings;

•

Our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate property,
liability and other insurance from reputable, financially stable providers;

•

The impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition
and results of operations of our tenants, operators, borrowers and managers and the ability of our tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims;

•

Risks associated with our medical office building ("MOB") portfolio and operations, including our ability to successfully
design, develop and manage MOBs, to accurately estimate our costs in fee-for-service projects and to retain key personnel;

•

The ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems to remain
competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups;

•

Our ability to build, maintain and expand our relationships with existing and prospective hospital and health system
clients;

•

Risks associated with our investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including our lack of sole
decision-making authority and our reliance on our joint venture partners' financial condition;

ii


•

The impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of our investments in marketable securities; and

•

The impact of litigation or any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect us or our tenants,
operators, borrowers or managers.

Many
of these factors, some of which are described in greater detail under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are
beyond our control and the control of our management.

Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise and Atria Information

Each of Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale Senior Living") and Sunrise Senior
Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") is subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC and is required to file with the SEC annual reports containing audited financial
information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise contained or referred to in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K is derived from SEC filings made by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise, as the case may be, or from other publicly available information, or has been provided to
us by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by reviewing Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's or Sunrise's
public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot provide any assurance that all of this information is accurate. Kindred's,
Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's filings with the SEC can be found on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to
obtain Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's publicly available filings from the SEC.

Atria
Senior Living, Inc. ("Atria") is not subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The information related to Atria contained or referred to in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K is derived from publicly available information or has been provided to us by Atria. We have not verified this information through an independent investigation. We have no
reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot provide any assurance that all of this information is accurate.

iii



PART I

Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

(Removed and Reserved)


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


iv


PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

BUSINESS

Overview

We are a REIT with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties throughout the United States and
Canada. As of December 31, 2011, we owned 1,378 properties located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces, consisting of: 678 seniors housing communities; 396 skilled
nursing facilities; 47 hospitals; 249 MOBs; and eight personal care facilities. We also were in the process of developing three properties as of December 31, 2011. We are headquartered in
Chicago, Illinois and have been a constituent member of the S&P 500® Index, a leading indicator of the large cap U.S. equities market, since March 2009.

Our
primary business focuses on acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to unaffiliated tenants or operating those properties through
independent third-party managers. Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ("Lillibridge") subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ("PMBRES"),
which we acquired in July 2011 in connection with our acquisition of NHP, we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and
health systems throughout the United States. In addition, from time to time, we make mortgage loan and other investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.

As
of December 31, 2011, we leased 929 properties (excluding MOBs) to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases that
obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent third parties, such as Atria
and Sunrise, to manage 200 seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements.

Ventas
was incorporated in Kentucky in 1983, commenced operations in 1985 and reorganized as a Delaware corporation in 1987. We currently operate through three reportable business
segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and MOB operations. See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including
"Note 2—Accounting Policies," included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy focuses on three principal objectives: (1) generating consistent, reliable and growing cash flows;
(2) maintaining a well-diversified portfolio; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.

Generating Consistent, Reliable and Growing Cash Flows

We strive to enhance shareholder value by generating consistent, reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and
healthcare assets. To achieve this objective, we endeavor to balance our portfolio through a combination of long-term triple-net leases that provide steady contractual growth,
seniors housing operating assets that allow for greater growth potential than our fixed rent escalators, and MOBs that provide stable cash flows.

Maintaining a Well-Diversified Portfolio

We believe that maintaining a portfolio of properties and mortgage loan and other investments diversified by asset class,
tenant/operator/manager, geographic location, revenue source and business model makes us less susceptible to regional economic downturns and adverse changes in regulation or



reimbursement
rates or methodologies in any single state or with respect to any particular asset type. Portfolio diversification also reduces our exposure to any individual tenant/operator/manager and
diminishes the risk that a single event could materially harm our business.

Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity

A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to create and exploit growth opportunities through
acquisitions, investments and development projects. We intend to maintain our financial strength and invest profitably by actively managing our leverage, lowering our cost of capital and preserving
our access to multiple sources of liquidity, such as unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and the public debt and equity markets.

2011 Highlights and Recent Developments

Over the last twelve months, we have completed several significant transactions and financing activities, including without limitation
the following:

•

In February 2011, we completed the sale of 5,563,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering
pursuant to our shelf registration statement for $300.0 million of aggregate proceeds;

•

In May 2011, we issued and sold $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021, at a
public offering price equal to 99.132% of par, for total proceeds of $693.9 million before the underwriting discount and expenses;

•

Also in May 2011, we acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately owned Atria
Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, "ASLG"), which added 117 seniors housing communities and one land parcel to our senior living operating portfolio;

•

In July 2011, we acquired publicly traded NHP in a stock-for-stock transaction, which expanded our
portfolio by 643 seniors housing and healthcare properties;

•

In October 2011, we repaid all borrowings outstanding and terminated the commitments under our unsecured revolving credit
facilities and entered into a new $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, currently priced at LIBOR plus 110 basis points;

•

In December 2011, we entered into a $500.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a weighted average maturity of
4.5 years, priced at 125 basis points over LIBOR;

•

Also in December 2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire publicly traded Cogdell and its 72 MOBs in an
all-cash transaction;

•

In addition to the transactions described above, during 2011, we invested approximately $329.5 million, including
the assumption of $134.9 million in debt, in MOBs and seniors housing communities; and

•

In February 2012, we issued and sold $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2022, at a
public offering price equal to 99.214% of par, for total proceeds of $595.3 million before the underwriting discount and expenses.



Portfolio of Properties and Other Investments

As of December 31, 2011, we had ownership interests in 1,378 seniors housing and healthcare properties as follow:

Consolidated

(100% interest)

Consolidated

(<100% interest)

Unconsolidated

(5% - 25% interest)

Total

Seniors housing communities





Skilled nursing facilities


—



Hospitals


—

—


MOBs





Personal care facilities


—

—


Total

1,257



1,378

Through
Lillibridge and PMBRES, we also provided management and leasing services to third parties with respect to 44 MOBs as of December 31, 2011.

The
following table provides an overview of our consolidated portfolio of properties and other investments, excluding development projects, as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2011:

Portfolio by Type

# of

Properties(1)

# of

Beds/

Units(2)

Revenue(3)

Percent of

Total

Revenues

Real Estate

Property

Investments,

at Cost

Percent of

Real

Estate

Property

Investments

Real Estate

Property

Investment

Per

Bed/Unit

Number

of

States/

Provinces(4)

(Dollars in thousands)

Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties

Seniors housing communities


56,025

$

1,169,885

65.9

%

$

11,969,153

67.1

%

$

213.6


Skilled nursing facilities


44,020

261,106

14.7

2,994,082

16.8

68.0


Hospitals


3,822

103,571

5.8

482,083

2.7

126.1


MOBs(5)


—

167,003

9.4

2,377,811

13.3

nm


Personal care facilities



1,025

0.1

7,133

0.1

58.5


Total seniors housing and healthcare properties

1,286

103,989

1,702,590

95.9

%

$

17,830,262

100.0

%


Other Investments

Loans and investments

34,415

1.9

$

1,737,005

97.8

%(6)

nm—not

meaningful.

(1)

Excludes
20 seniors housing communities, fourteen skilled nursing facilities and 58 MOBs included in investments in unconsolidated entities.

(2)

Seniors
housing communities are measured in units; skilled nursing facilities, hospitals and personal care facilities are measured by bed count; and MOBs
are measured by square footage.

(3)

Revenues
relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.

(4)

As
of December 31, 2011, our consolidated properties were located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces and, excluding
MOBs, were operated or managed by 95 different third-party healthcare operating companies, including the following publicly traded companies: Kindred (198 properties); Brookdale (167 properties);
Sunrise (79 properties); Emeritus Corporation (17 properties); Assisted Living Concepts, Inc. (12 properties), Capital Senior Living, Inc. (11 properties) and Sun Healthcare
Group, Inc. (5 properties).

(5)

As
of December 31, 2011, 64 of our MOBs were managed by 11 different third-party managers, 100 of our MOBs were managed by Lillibridge or PMBRES and
27 of our MOBs were leased pursuant to triple-net leases.

(6)

The
remainder of our total revenues is medical office building and other services revenue and interest and other income. Revenues from properties held for
sale as of December 31, 2011 are included in this presentation. Revenues from properties sold during 2011 are excluded from this presentation.



Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties

Seniors Housing Communities.

Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities,
continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. These communities offer studio, one bedroom
and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance. Basic services for residents of these
communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents. More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional
fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable
them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities. These services are often met by home health providers, close coordination with the resident's physician and skilled nursing
facilities. Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources.

Skilled Nursing Facilities.

Our skilled nursing facilities provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and
medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital. Treatment programs
include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment. Charges for these
services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources.

Hospitals.

Substantially all of our hospitals are operated as long-term acute care hospitals, which have a
Medicare average length of stay greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do
not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit. The operators of these hospitals have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such
as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and
cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and
dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital. All of our
long-term acute care hospitals are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any "hospitals within hospitals." We also own two hospitals focused on providing children's care and five
rehabilitation hospitals devoted to the
rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.

Medical Office Buildings.

Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to several different unrelated medical
practices, although they can be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group. Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, with
space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services. While MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more
plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians' requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. As of December 31, 2011, we
owned or managed more than 14 million square feet of MOBs, a significant majority of which are "on campus," meaning on or near an acute care hospital campus.

Personal Care Facilities.

Our personal care facilities provide specialized care, including supported living services,
neurorehabilitation, neurobehavioral management and vocational programs, for persons with acquired or traumatic brain injury.



Mortgage Loan and Other Investments

As of December 31, 2011, we had $276.2 million of net loans receivable relating to seniors housing and healthcare
operators or properties. See "Note 6—Loans Receivable" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. In addition, we had marketable debt securities classified as available-for-sale and having an aggregate amortized cost basis of
$41.2 million and a fair value of $43.3 million as of December 31, 2011.

Geographic Diversification

Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geography throughout the United States and Canada,
with properties in only one state (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.

The
following table shows our rental income and resident fees and services derived by geographic location for the year ended December 31, 2011:

Rental Income and

Resident Fees and

Services(1)

Percent of Total

Revenues

(Dollars in thousands)

Geographic Location

California

$

242,622

13.7

%

New York

154,143

8.7

Illinois

113,497

6.4

Massachusetts

88,264

5.0

Texas

88,003

5.0

Pennsylvania

76,600

4.3

Florida

67,157

3.8

New Jersey

62,617

3.5

Colorado

55,139

3.1

Connecticut

51,578

2.9

Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)

610,946

34.3

Total U.S

1,610,566

90.7

%

Canada (two Canadian provinces)

92,024

5.2

Total

$

1,702,590

95.9

%(2)

(1)

Revenues
relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.

(2)

The
remainder of our total revenues is medical office building and other services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest and other income.
Revenues from properties held for sale as of December 31, 2011 are included in this presentation. Revenues from properties sold during 2011 are excluded from this presentation.

Segment Information

As of December 31, 2011, we operated through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties,
senior living operations and MOB operations. See "Note 20—Segment Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our business segments and the geographic diversification of our portfolio of properties.



Certificates of Need

Our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are generally subject to federal, state and local licensure statutes and statutes that may
require regulatory approval, in the form of a certificate of need ("CON") issued by a governmental agency with jurisdiction over healthcare facilities, prior to the expansion of existing facilities,
construction of new facilities, addition of beds, acquisition of major equipment or introduction of new services. CON requirements, which are not uniform throughout the United States, may restrict our
or our operators' ability to expand our properties in certain circumstances.

The
following table shows our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2011 derived by skilled nursing facilities and hospitals in states with and without CON requirements:

Skilled

Nursing

Facilities

Hospitals

Total

States with CON requirements

70.2

%

45.9

%

63.3

%

States without CON requirements

29.8

54.1

36.7

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers

As of December 31, 2011, Atria, Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred operated or managed, as applicable, approximately
19.0%, 14.4%, 13.0% and 5.0%, respectively, of our real estate investments based on their gross book value (including amounts held for sale as of December 31, 2011).

The
following table shows the percentage of our revenues and net operating income ("NOI"—defined as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating
expenses and medical office building services costs) for the year ended December 31, 2011 (including amounts in discontinued operations) received by or attributed to our top
triple-net lease tenants and our senior living operations managed by independent third parties:

Number of

Properties

Operated,

Managed or

Leased

Percentage of

Revenues

Percentage of

NOI

Senior living operations(1)


49.2

%

24.3

%

Kindred


14.3

23.2

Brookdale Senior Living(2)


8.2

13.4

(1)

Amounts
attributable to senior living operations managed by Atria relate to the period from May 12, 2011, the date of the ASLG acquisition, through
December 31, 2011.

(2)

Excludes
six properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

Each of our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living is a
triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with
the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties. In addition, each of these leases have guaranty and cross-default provisions tied to other leases with the same tenant,
as well as bundled lease renewals (as described in more detail below).



Because
the properties we lease to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI, our financial condition and results of operations could
be weakened and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders could be limited if either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living were unable or unwilling to satisfy
its obligations to us or to renew its leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof. We cannot provide any assurance that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income
and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to do so could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and on our ability to make distributions to our
stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect"). We also cannot provide any assurance that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living will elect to renew their
respective leases with us upon expiration of their terms or that we will be able to reposition any properties that are not renewed on a timely basis or on the same or better economic terms, if at all.
See "Risks Factors—Risks
Arising from Our Business—We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or
Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Kindred Master Leases.

The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred Master Lease is referred to as "base
rent." Base rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, contingent upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent
escalator under three of our four Kindred Master Leases is 2.7%, and the annual rent escalator under the fourth Kindred Master Lease is based on year-over-year changes in CPI,
subject to a floor of 2.25% and a ceiling of 4%. Assuming the applicable facility revenue parameters are met, we currently expect that base rent due under the Kindred Master Leases for the period from
May 1, 2012 through April 30, 2013 will be approximately $261.5 million. See "Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The
197 properties we lease to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases are grouped into bundles or renewal groups (each, a "renewal group") containing a varying number of
properties. All properties within a single renewal group have the same primary lease term of ten to fifteen years (commencing May 1, 1998), and each renewal group is subject to three successive
five-year renewal terms at the tenant's option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

The
current lease term for ten renewal groups covering a total of 89 properties leased to Kindred (the "Renewal Assets") will expire on April 30, 2013 unless Kindred provides us
with renewal notices with respect to one or more of those bundles on or before April 30, 2012. In November 2011, we received renewal notices from Kindred with respect to two renewal groups
covering a total of sixteen Renewal Assets (the "Early Renewal Assets") and collectively representing approximately $23 million of current annual base rent. In December 2011, we initiated a
fair market rental reset process with respect to certain Early Renewal Assets. While we believe that aggregate annual base rent for those Early Renewal Assets is likely to increase as a result of the
reset process, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the final determination of fair market rent, which is highly speculative and may be influenced by a variety of factors. In addition, in certain
cases Kindred may have the right to revoke its renewal of those Early Renewal Assets for which we initiated the fair market rental reset process.

The
remaining eight renewal groups covering a total of 73 Renewal Assets collectively represent approximately $99 million of current annual base rent, and each renewal group
contains six or more properties, including at least one hospital. Kindred is required to continue to perform all of its obligations under the applicable Kindred Master Lease for the Renewal Assets
within any renewal group that is not renewed until expiration of the term on April 30, 2013, including without limitation



payment
of all rental amounts. Therefore, as to any renewal group for which we do not receive a renewal notice, we will have at least one year to arrange for the repositioning of the applicable
Renewal Assets with new operators. Moreover, we own or have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and ensure an orderly
transition of the properties to another operator.

We
cannot provide any assurance that Kindred will elect to renew any or all of the remaining eight renewal groups whose lease expires April 30, 2013, that Kindred will not revoke
its renewal of the Early Renewal Assets for which we initiated the fair market rental reset process, or that we will be able to reposition any or all non-renewed assets on a timely basis or on the
same or better economic terms, if at all. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition
the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Item 1A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The
current lease term for 108 properties leased to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases and not comprising the Renewal Assets will expire on April 30, 2015, subject to
Kindred's two sequential five-year renewal options for those assets.

Brookdale Senior Living Leases

.    Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living have primary terms of fifteen years (commencing
in 2004) and are subject to two successive renewal terms of either five or ten years each at the tenant's option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

Under
the terms of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Provident Senior Living Trust ("Provident") in 2005, Brookdale Senior
Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on January 1 or November 1 of each year by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in CPI
during the immediately preceding year or (ii) either 2.5% or 3%, depending on the lease. Under the terms of the lease with respect to our remaining "Grand Court" property (as described in more
detail below), Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on February 1 of each year by an amount equal to the greater of (i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the
increase in CPI during the immediately preceding year. In February 2012, we sold nine of our original ten "Grand Court" properties to Brookdale Senior Living for aggregate consideration of
$121.3 million, including a lease termination fee of $1.8 million. The current aggregate annual contractual cash base rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living for 2012, excluding
variable interest that Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt assumed by us in the Provident acquisition, is approximately
$158.1 million (excluding properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities and properties held for sale as of December 31, 2011). The current aggregate annual contractual
base rent (computed
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP")) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living for 2012, excluding the variable interest, is approximately $161.2 million
(excluding properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities and properties held for sale as of December 31, 2011). See "Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk" and
"Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.



Senior Living Operations

As of December 31, 2011, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services
with respect to 197 of our seniors housing communities for which we pay an annual management fee pursuant to long-term management agreements. Each management agreement with Atria has a
term of ten years commencing in 2011, subject to successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and each management agreement with Sunrise has a term of 30 years commencing as early
as 2004. Under the Sunrise management agreements, our management fee was reduced to 3.75% of revenues generated by the applicable properties for 2011, but will revert to 6% of revenues generated by
the applicable properties (with a range of 5% to 7%) for 2012 and thereafter. See "Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Because
Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our
triple-net tenants. However, we rely on our managers' personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and
judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set resident fees and
otherwise operate those properties in compliance with the terms of our management agreements. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, Atria's or
Sunrise's inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information
with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior management or any adverse developments in their businesses and affairs
or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a
significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Although Atria and Sunrise are managers, not tenants, of our properties, adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial
condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We generally compete in the acquisition, leasing and financing of seniors housing and healthcare properties with publicly traded,
private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including without limitation developers, banks, insurance companies,
pension funds, government sponsored entities and private equity firms. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes
it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives, as our ability to compete in those areas is affected by, among other factors, the
availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable acquisition or investment terms and our access to and cost of capital. See "Risk
Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to
meet our expectations" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The
tenants and managers that operate our properties compete on a local and regional basis with healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services. The operators and
managers of our seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities and hospitals compete to attract and retain residents and patients based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial
condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences. The managers of our MOBs compete to attract and
retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician



preferences
and proximity to hospital campuses. The ability of our tenants and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws
and regulations. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and
enforcement" and "—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on
certain of our tenants and operators" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 328 employees, none of whom is subject to a collective bargaining agreement.

Insurance

We maintain and/or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all
applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations. We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants,
operators and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. Although we believe that our tenants, operators and managers are in compliance with their respective insurance
requirements, we cannot provide any assurance that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and the failure by any of them to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We also
cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance will be available at a
reasonable cost in the future or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the
future financial viability of the insurers.

We
maintain property and casualty insurance for our senior living operations, and we maintain general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related
operations managed by Atria. The general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Sunrise is currently maintained by Sunrise in
accordance with the standards contained in our management agreements. Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for
maintaining the
required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

As
part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we
develop could result in substantial injury or damage to clients or third parties. Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or
completed projects. Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot provide any assurance that our policy limits would be
adequate to cover the loss in full. If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, and/or experience reduced
profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

In
an effort to reduce and manage their costs and for various other reasons, many companies in the healthcare industry, including some of our tenants, operators and managers, are
pursuing different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or programs (commonly referred to as "captives") that may provide them with less insurance
coverage. As a result, those companies who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity,
financial condition and results of operations.



The
implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person's ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms
of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive, any large funded and unfunded
professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Additional Information

We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

We
make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and
Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our
Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Healthcare Regulation

Overview

While the properties within our portfolio are all susceptible to many varying types of regulation, we expect that the healthcare
industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. A
significant expansion of applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations, previously enacted or future healthcare reform, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations or changes in
enforcement priorities could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their
contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, or otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us. In addition, efforts by third-party payors, such as the federal
Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and private insurance carriers, including health maintenance organizations and other health plans, to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost
controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or
otherwise) are expected to intensify and continue. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could also have a material adverse effect on certain of
our operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise
complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Licensure and Certification

Participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs generally requires the operators of our skilled nursing facilities to be licensed
on an annual or bi-annual basis and certified annually through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws. These legal requirements relate to
the quality of the nursing care provided, qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with the laws and
regulations governing the operation of skilled nursing facilities. The



failure
of an operator to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent it from continuing operations
at a property. A loss of licensure or certification could also adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator's ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in
turn, could affect adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Similarly,
in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions of participation set forth by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services ("HHS") relating to the type of hospital and its equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, as well as comply with state and local laws and regulations. Hospitals undergo
periodic on-site licensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations) or other recognized accreditation organizations. A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a hospital's ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases
with us.

Seniors
housing communities are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are regulated, the regulation is conducted mainly by state and local
laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters. These laws vary greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth in the U.S.
seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal regulation of these properties is necessary, thus far, Congress has deferred to state
regulation of seniors housing communities. However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have
revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are expected to do the same in the future.

CONs

Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to various state CON laws requiring governmental approval prior to the development
or expansion of healthcare facilities and services. The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or
services. CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new
services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process. CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator's ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain
circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator's revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of, its leases with us. In
addition, in the event that any operator of our properties fails to make rental payments to us or to comply with applicable healthcare regulations, our ability to evict that operator and substitute
another operator for a particular facility may be materially delayed or limited by CON laws, as well as by various state licensing and receivership laws and Medicare and Medicaid
change-of-ownership rules. Such delays and limitations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect rent, to obtain possession of leased properties, or
otherwise to exercise remedies for tenant default. We may also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any such licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership
proceedings.

Fraud and Abuse

Various federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who participate in,
receive payments from or make or receive referrals for work in



connection
with government-funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The federal laws include, by way of example, the following:

•

The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act), which prohibits certain
business practices and relationships, including the payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral of any patient or service or item covered by a
federal health care program, including Medicare or a state health program, such as Medicaid;

•

The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the
"Stark Law"), which prohibits referrals by physicians of Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated healthcare services with which the physicians (or their immediate
family members) have ownership interests or certain other financial arrangements;

•

The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment by the
federal government (including the Medicare and Medicaid programs);

•

The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and

•

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (commonly referred to as "HIPAA"), which among other
things, protects the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information by limiting its use and disclosure.

Sanctions
for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and
Medicaid payments, and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that they do not employ or contract with persons excluded
from the Medicare and other government programs.

Many
states have adopted or are considering legislative proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of whether the service was reimbursed by Medicare or
Medicaid. Many states have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels, criminal background checks, and limiting the use and
disclosure of patient specific health information. These state laws also impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.

In
the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that
oversee applicable laws and regulations. Increased funding through recent federal and state legislation has led to significant growth in the number of investigations and enforcement actions over the
past several years. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private
individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients or nurses
and other employees. HIPAA also created a series of new healthcare crimes.

As
federal and state budget pressures persist, administrative agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and enforcement efforts to eliminate waste and to control fraud and
abuse in governmental healthcare programs. A violation of any federal or state anti-fraud and abuse laws or regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse
effect on the operator's liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its



contractual
obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, its leases and other agreements with us.

Healthcare Legislation

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with a reconciliation measure, the
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the "Affordable Care Act"). The passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expected
to expand health care coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursement
rates for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.

The
Affordable Care Act, among other things, reduced the inflationary market basket increase included in standard federal payment rates for long-term acute care hospitals by
25 basis points in fiscal year 2010, 50 basis points in fiscal year 2011, 10 basis points in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, 30 basis points in fiscal year 2014, 20 basis points in fiscal years 2015 and
2016, and 75 basis points in fiscal years 2017 through 2019. In addition, under the Affordable Care Act, long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are subject to a rate
adjustment to the market basket increase, beginning in fiscal year 2012, to reflect improvements in productivity. The constitutionality of various provisions of the Affordable Care Act is being
considered by the U.S. Supreme Court. In addition to the constitutionality of the so-called individual mandate, the U.S. Supreme Court is considering the constitutionality of provisions
that expand Medicaid coverage to include individuals who would otherwise not be eligible and whether those provisions, if declared unconstitutional, can be severed from the rest of the Affordable Care
Act. Oral argument on these matters has been scheduled for March 2012 with a decision likely by the end of June 2012.

Healthcare
is one of the largest industries in the United States and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest and public attention. We cannot provide any assurance that
previously enacted or future healthcare reform legislation or changes in the administration or implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare reimbursement programs will
not have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, or on their ability to satisfy their obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a
Material Adverse Effect on us.

Medicare Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA") mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute care
hospitals ("LTAC PPS") for cost reporting periods commencing on or after October 1, 2002. Under LTAC PPS, which classifies patients into distinct diagnostic groups based on clinical
characteristics and expected resource needs, long-term acute care hospitals are reimbursed on a predetermined rate, rather than on a reasonable cost basis that reflects costs incurred.
LTAC PPS requires payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per discharge amount for each defined patient category (called "Long-Term Care—Diagnosis Related
Groups" or "LTC-DRGs"), adjusted for differences in area wage levels.

Updates
to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital rate year, which coincides with annual updates to
the LTC-DRG classification system and corresponds to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30).

The
Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (Pub. L. No. 110-173) (the "Medicare Extension Act") significantly expanded medical necessity reviews by the
Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") by requiring long-term acute care hospitals to institute a patient review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a continuing
basis for appropriateness of care.



In
addition, the Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the following long-term acute care hospital payment policy changes, all of which were extended for two years by the
Affordable Care Act:

•

It prevented CMS from applying the "25-percent rule," which limits payments from referring
co-located hospitals, to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals for three years;

•

It modified the application of the 25-percent rule to certain urban and rural long-term acute care
"hospitals-within-hospitals" and "satellite" facilities for three years;

•

It prevented CMS from applying the "very short stay outlier" policy for three years; and

•

It prevented CMS from making any one-time adjustments to correct estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS for
three years.

Lastly,
the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years.

In
a final rule published in May 2008, CMS delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals and
increased the
patient percentage thresholds for certain urban and rural long-term acute care "hospitals-within-hospitals" and "satellite" facilities for three years, as mandated by the Medicare
Extension Act. The rule also set forth policies on implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.

In
a final rule published in August 2009, CMS finalized policies to implement changes required by Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers Act of
2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-275), continuing reforms intended to improve the accuracy of Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group
(MS-LTC-DRG) classification system for long-term acute care hospitals.

On
August 18, 2011, CMS published its final rule updating LTAC PPS for the 2012 fiscal year (October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012). Under the rule, the LTAC
PPS standard federal payment rate will increase by 1.8% in fiscal year 2012, reflecting a 2.9% increase in the market basket index, less a 1% productivity adjustment and the additional 10 basis point
reduction required by the Affordable Care Act. As a result, CMS estimates that net payments to long-term acute care hospitals in fiscal year 2012 under the final rule will increase
relative to fiscal year 2011 by approximately $126 million, or 2.5%, due to area wage adjustments, as well as increases in high-cost and short-stay outlier payments and
other policies adopted in the final rule.

In
addition, as a result of the enactment of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and subsequent events, which are discussed below, Medicare payments to long-term acute care
hospitals will be reduced by 2% on January 2, 2013.

We
regularly assess the financial implications of CMS's rules on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals, but we cannot provide any assurance that the current
rules or future updates to LTAC PPS, LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn,
could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors,
including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.



Medicare Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities ("SNF PPS") offering Part A
covered services. Under SNF PPS, payment amounts are based upon classifications determined through assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled nursing facility, rather than on the
facility's reasonable costs. SNF PPS payments are made on a per diem basis for each resident and are generally intended to cover all inpatient services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing
care, most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay, and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy, occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain covered drugs.

In
response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 ("BBRA").
The BBRA increased the per diem reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from April 1, 2000 until case mix refinements were implemented by CMS, as explained below. The BBRA
also imposed a two-year moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical, occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient by outpatient rehabilitation therapy
providers, including Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities. Relief from the BBA therapy caps was subsequently extended multiple times by Congress, but these extensions expired
on December 31, 2009 and have not been renewed by Congress.

Pursuant
to its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal year, CMS refined the resource utilization groups ("RUGs") used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in
skilled nursing facilities by adding nine new payment categories, the result of which was to eliminate the temporary add-on payments that Congress enacted as part of the BBRA.

Under
its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year, CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance amounts for all beneficiaries (other than
beneficiaries of both Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005. The rule also included various options
for classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.

Under
its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year, CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for RUGs used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in
skilled nursing facilities and implemented the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities for the 2011 fiscal year. However, the Affordable Care Act delayed the
implementation of RUG-IV for one year, and CMS subsequently modified the implementation schedule in its notice updating SNF PPS for the 2011 fiscal year.

In
November 2010, CMS placed on public display its final Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule for the 2011 calendar year, which set a $1,870 cap on physical therapy and speech-language
pathology services and a separate $1,870 cap on occupational therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing facilities, both without an exceptions process. In December 2010, the
Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 (Pub. L. No. 111 309) was enacted to lift the caps on therapy services and continue the exceptions process.

On
August 8, 2011, CMS published its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2012 fiscal year (October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012). Under the rule, the update to
the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate includes a 2.7% increase in the market basket index, less a 1.0% productivity adjustment mandated by the Affordable Care Act and a 12.6% "parity adjustment
recalibration" to account for estimated overpayments under the RUG-IV classification model, resulting in a net 11.1% decrease in the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate for fiscal year
2012. The rule also requires group therapy to be treated in the same manner as concurrent therapy (i.e., allocating therapy minutes



among
the group's patients, rather than counting the same minutes for each patient), which may additionally affect net payments to skilled nursing facilities. CMS estimates that net payments to
skilled nursing facilities as a result of the final rule will decrease by approximately $3.87 billion in fiscal year 2012, but stated that "Even with the recalibration, the FY 2012 payment
rates will be 3.4 percent higher than the rates established for FY 2010, the period immediately preceding the unintended spike in payment levels."

In
addition, as a result of the enactment of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and subsequent events, which are discussed below, Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities will be
reduced by 2% on January 2, 2013.

We
regularly assess the financial implications of CMS's rules on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we cannot provide any assurance that the current rules or future
updates to SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect
on us. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicaid Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

Approximately two-thirds of all nursing home residents are dependent on Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates, however,
typically are less than the amounts charged by the operators of our skilled nursing facilities. Although the federal government and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid, states have
a wide range of discretion, within certain federal guidelines, to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. In addition, federal legislation limits an operator's ability to withdraw from
the Medicaid program by restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents. As state budget pressures continue to escalate and in an effort to address actual or potential budget shortfalls,
many state legislatures have enacted or proposed reductions to Medicaid expenditures by implementing "freezes" or cuts in Medicaid rates paid to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing
facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.

In
the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171), Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were estimated to result in $10 billion in
savings to the federal government over the five years following enactment of the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some states use to calculate their matched payments and
revising the qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid benefits. The changes made by CMS's final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal year were also anticipated to reduce
Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators, and as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (Pub. L. No. 109-432), Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that
states may impose on healthcare providers and that would qualify for federal financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%, until October 1, 2011. While it was anticipated
that this reduction would have a negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in excess of 5.5%, we have not ascertained its financial implications on our skilled nursing facility
operators.



In contrast, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. No. 111-5) (the "Recovery Act"), temporarily increased federal
payments to state Medicaid programs by $86.6 billion through, among other things, a 6.2% increase in the federal share of Medicaid expenditures across the board, with additional funds available
depending on a state's federal medical assistance percentage and unemployment rate. Though the Medicaid federal assistance payments were originally expected to expire on December 31, 2010, the
President's fiscal year 2011 budget extended those payments through June 30, 2011. The Recovery Act also requires states to promptly pay nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and
precludes states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements.

We
expect more states to adopt significant Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or other program changes as their reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve. In addition, the U.S.
government may revoke, reduce or stop approving "provider taxes" that have the effect of increasing Medicaid payments to the states. We cannot predict what impact these actions would have on the
operators of our skilled nursing facilities, and we cannot provide any assurance that payments under Medicaid are now or in the future will be sufficient to fully reimburse those operators for the
cost of providing skilled nursing services. Severe and widespread Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could materially adversely affect our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in turn, could
adversely affect their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Debt Ceiling and Deficit Reduction Legislation

On August 2, 2011, President Obama and the U.S. Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 to increase the federal
government's borrowing authority (the so-called "debt ceiling") and reduce the federal government's projected operating deficit. To implement this legislation, President Obama and members
of the U.S. Congress have proposed various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives, some of which could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or
Medicare Advantage Plans. Under the agreement reached to allow the federal government to raise the debt ceiling in August, a twelve-member, bipartisan committee was given a deadline of
November 23, 2011 to develop recommendations for reducing the federal budget deficit by a total of at least $1.2 trillion over ten years. However, the committee was not able to agree on a plan
and, therefore, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts, including a 2% reduction in Medicare payments to long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as noted above,
are expected to go into effect on January 2, 2013. These measures and any future federal legislation relating to the debt ceiling or deficit reduction could have a material adverse effect on
our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse
Effect on us.

Environmental Regulation

As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health
and safety matters. These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials,
medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. Even with
respect to properties that we do not operate or manage, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from
which there is or has been an actual or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. Such costs typically are
not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property's value. In addition, we may be liable for certain other costs, such as governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or



natural
resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If any of our properties are
found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Under
the terms of our lease and management agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused
by them. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to
us, and any such inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental claims. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—We depend
on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations
under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on
or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our
managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that
condition.

We
did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in 2011 and do not expect that we will be required
to make any such material capital expenditures during 2012.

CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that you may deem relevant as a holder of our common
stock. It is not tax advice, nor does it purport to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to particular stockholders in light of their personal circumstances or to
certain types of stockholders that may be subject to special rules, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under
"—Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders"), financial institutions, pass-through entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S.
individuals and entities (except to the extent discussed below under "—Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders").

The
statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), U.S. Treasury Regulations and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof.
The laws governing the U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical
and complex, and this discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed above, as in effect on the date hereof. We cannot provide any assurance that new laws, interpretations of law or
court decisions, any of which may take effect retroactively, will not cause any statement herein to be inaccurate.

Federal Income Taxation of Ventas

We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999. Beginning with the 1999 tax year, we believe that we
have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT, and we intend to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally
will not be subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" (i.e., taxation at both the
corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation.



Notwithstanding
such qualification, we will be subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates.
In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. See "—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual
Distribution Requirements." Under certain circumstances, we may be subject to the "alternative minimum tax" on our undistributed items of tax preference. If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of "foreclosure property" (see below) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property,
we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on that income. See "—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Asset Tests." In addition, if we have net income from
"prohibited transactions" (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
business), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.

We
may also be subject to "Built-in Gains Tax" on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation
generally subject to full corporate-level tax). If we dispose of any such asset and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period immediately after the asset was owned by a
C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally will be subject to regular corporate income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the
recognized gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset.

In
addition, if we fail to satisfy either of the gross income tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but still maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of
the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we
violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other things, pay a tax equal to the
greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period. If we fail to satisfy any requirement for
REIT qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests mentioned above, but nonetheless maintain such qualification by meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a $50,000
penalty for each failure. Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary (including rental income derived from leasing
properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary) that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.

See
"—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT" below for other circumstances in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.

Requirements for Qualification as a REIT

To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets
and distributions of income to stockholders.

Organizational Requirements

The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees;
(ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation
but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial
ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the "100 Shareholder
Rule"); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as



defined
in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the "5/50 Rule"); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a
previous taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") that must be met in order to elect and to maintain
REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets.

We
believe but cannot provide any assurance that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for qualification as a REIT. Our certificate of
incorporation contains certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares that are intended to prevent a concentration of ownership of our stock that would cause us to fail the 5/50 Rule or the 100
Shareholder Rule; however, we cannot provide any assurance as to the effectiveness of these restrictions.

In
addition, to qualify as a REIT, a corporation may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status
or that are from acquired non-REIT corporations. We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods or from acquired
corporations that were not REITs, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.

Gross Income Tests

We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify as a REIT:

•

At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist
of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding
real property and also including "rents from real property" (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary investment income; and

•

At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be
derived from such real property or temporary investments, dividends, interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.

We
believe but cannot provide any assurance that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the gross income tests described above. If we fail to satisfy one or both gross
income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions of the Code, in which case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the
income exceeding one or both of the gross income tests. If we fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests and do not qualify under the relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not
qualify as a REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Asset Tests

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our
assets:

•

At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain receivables),
government securities, "real estate assets" (including interests in real property and in mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) or, in cases where we raise new capital
through stock or long-term (maturity of at least five years) debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following our receipt
of such capital (the "75% asset test"); and



•

Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any one issuer's debt and equity
securities owned by us (other than our equity interests in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock or debt of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock or debt
of a qualified REIT subsidiary or other disregarded entity subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the "5% asset test"), and we may not own more than 10% of any one issuer's
outstanding voting securities (the "10% voting securities test") or 10% of the value of any one issuer's outstanding securities (the "10% value test"), subject to limited "safe harbor" exceptions.

In
addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets (20% for taxable years beginning prior to 2009) can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the "25% TRS
test").

We
believe but cannot provide any assurance that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described above. If we fail to satisfy the asset tests at the end
of any quarter, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the discrepancy between the value of our
assets and the asset test requirements is due to changes in the market values of our assets and not caused in any part by an acquisition of non-qualifying assets.

Furthermore,
if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests at the end of any calendar quarter without curing such failure within 30 days after the end of such quarter, we would
fail to qualify as a REIT unless we qualified under certain relief provisions enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Under one relief provision, we would continue to qualify as a
REIT if our failure to satisfy the 5% asset test, the 10% voting securities test or the 10% value test is due to the ownership of assets having a total value not exceeding the lesser of 1% of our
assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10 million and we disposed of such assets (or otherwise met such asset tests) within six months after the end of the quarter in which the failure
was identified. If we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests for a particular quarter but do not qualify under the relief provision described in the preceding sentence, then we would be deemed to have
satisfied the relevant asset test if: (i) following identification of the failure, we filed a schedule with a description of each asset that caused the failure; (ii) the failure is due
to reasonable cause and not willful neglect; (iii) we disposed of the non-qualifying asset (or otherwise met the relevant asset test) within six months after the end of the quarter
in which the failure was identified; and (iv) we paid a penalty tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the
non-qualifying asset during the period beginning on the first date of the failure and ending on the date we disposed of the asset (or otherwise cured the asset test failure). We cannot
predict, however, whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests and do not qualify for the relief
provisions, we will lose our REIT status, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Foreclosure Property

The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as
a result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests. However, in that case, we would be subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from
"foreclosure property," and the after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders. See "—Annual Distribution Requirements" below.
The corporate tax imposed on non-qualifying income would not apply to income that does qualify as "good REIT income," such as a lease of qualified healthcare property to a taxable REIT
subsidiary, where the taxable REIT subsidiary engages an eligible independent contractor to manage and operate the property.



Foreclosure
property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will give rise to income that does not constitute "good REIT
income" under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code, but such treatment will not end if the lease will only give rise to "good REIT income." In addition, foreclosure property treatment will end if any
construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building or other improvement more than 10% complete before default became imminent). Foreclosure property treatment (other than
for qualified healthcare property) is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property treatment for
qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries

A taxable REIT subsidiary, or "TRS," is a corporation subject to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can own assets that
cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would otherwise disqualify the REIT's
rental income under the gross income tests. Also, notwithstanding general restrictions on related party rent, a REIT can lease healthcare properties to a TRS if the TRS does not manage or operate the
healthcare facilities and instead engages an "eligible independent contractor" to manage the healthcare facilities. We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS, subject to the 25% TRS test, but there
are certain limits on the ability of a TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any
excess payments that we receive or any excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT's tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements
among unrelated parties.

Annual Distribution Requirements

In order to be taxed as a REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an
amount at least equal to the sum of (i) 90% of our "REIT taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income
(after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus the sum of certain items of non-cash income. These dividends must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the
following taxable year if (i) they are declared in October, November or December, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date in any one of those months and actually paid during
January of such following year or (ii) they are declared before we timely file our tax return for such year and paid on or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration, and
we elect on our federal income tax return for the prior year to have a specified amount of the subsequent dividend treated as paid in the prior year. To the extent we do not distribute all of our net
capital gain or at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our "REIT taxable income," as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular capital gains and ordinary corporate tax
rates except to the extent of our net operating loss or capital loss carryforwards. If we pay any Built-in Gains Taxes, those taxes will be deductible in computing REIT taxable income.
Moreover, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year (or, in the case of distributions with declaration and record dates falling in the last three months of the calendar year, by the end of
January following such calendar year) at least the sum of 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than long-term capital
gain we elect to retain and treat as having been distributed to stockholders), and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the
excess of such required distribution over the amounts actually distributed.



We
believe but cannot provide any assurance that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the
year ended December 31, 2011. Although we intend to satisfy the annual distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for the year ending December 31, 2012 and subsequent
years, economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to meet those requirements.

In
Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS stated that it would treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar
years 2008
through 2012, provided that stockholders can elect to receive the distribution in either cash or stock, subject to certain limitations. Any stock so distributed would be taxable to the recipient. We
may choose to declare stock dividends in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2010-12 or otherwise. We also have net operating loss carryforwards that we can use to reduce our annual
distribution requirements. See "Note 13—Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Failure to Continue to Qualify

If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset test for which
relief is otherwise available as described above, we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each
such failure. We cannot predict, however, whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of this relief provision.

If
our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests without qualifying for any applicable relief
provisions), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT
election is revoked or terminated), and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us, nor would they be required to be made. To the extent of current and accumulated earnings and
profits, all distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income (except to the extent such dividends are eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to
non-corporate holders), and, subject to certain limitations in the Code, corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition, we would be prohibited
from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied. We cannot
predict, however, whether we would be entitled to such relief.

Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term "U.S. Stockholder" refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax
purposes, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia,
an estate the income of which is includible in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision
over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury
Regulations to retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person. If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our common stock, the
tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of
the partner and the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock as a
capital asset.

As
long as we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our taxable U.S. Stockholders out of current or accumulated earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain dividends)
generally



will
be taxable to such U.S. Stockholders as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders or for the dividends
received deduction generally available to corporations. Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as a long-term capital gain (to the extent such
distributions do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year) without regard to the period for which the stockholder has held its shares. Distributions in excess of current and
accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a U.S. Stockholder to the extent they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder's shares (determined on a
share-by-share basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits
exceed the adjusted basis of a stockholder's shares, such distributions will be included in income as capital gains. The tax rate applicable to such capital gains will depend on the stockholder's
holding period for the shares. Any distribution declared by us and payable to a stockholder of record on a specified date in October, November or December of any year will be treated as both paid by
us and received by the stockholder on December 31 of that year, provided that we actually pay the distribution during January of the following calendar year.

We
may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders. If we make such an election, our stockholders would be
required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us. Each such stockholder would be deemed to
have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder. In addition,
the tax basis of the stockholder's shares would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax
imposed on us with respect to such gains.

Stockholders
may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, we would carry over those losses for potential offset
against our future income, subject to certain limitations. Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and,
therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply any "passive activity losses" (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder is a limited partner)
against such income. In addition, taxable
distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.

We
will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and
capital gain. To the extent a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a "15% rate gain distribution" and the portion
that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution. A 15% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable
at a maximum rate of 15%. An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution would be taxable to taxable domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common Stock

In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our
common stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However, a U.S.
Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and
any other actual or deemed distributions from us which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable
disposition of our common stock



may
be disallowed if the stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock (or certain options to acquire our common stock) within 30 days before or after the disposition.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders

Tax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts
(collectively, "Exempt Organizations"), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However, they are subject to
taxation on their unrelated business taxable income ("UBTI"). While many investments in real estate generate UBTI, the IRS has issued a published ruling that dividend distributions by a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on that
ruling, and subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its
acquisition of our common stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the "debt-financed property" rules. Furthermore, social clubs, voluntary
employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20),
respectively, of Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI rules, which generally require them to characterize distributions from us as UBTI. In addition, in certain
circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us as UBTI.

Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term "Non-U.S. Stockholder" refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S.
federal income tax purposes, a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign estate or foreign trust, but does not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is
"effectively connected" with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in general, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to its investment
in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals). In addition, a
foreign corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% "branch profits tax" on its effectively connected
earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption. Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively
connected income to be exempt from withholding.

Distributions
to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital
gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital gains) will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and
profits. Such distributions ordinarily will be subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax.
Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a Non-U.S. Stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted
basis of the stockholder's shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those shares. To the extent that distributions in excess
of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis of a Non-U.S. Stockholder's shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S.
Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of its shares, as described below.

We
expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property
interests



and
capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS Form W-8BEN evidencing eligibility for
that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or
the appropriate withholding agent properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

For
any year in which we qualify as a REIT, distributions to a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 5% of our common shares at any time during the one-year
period ending on the date of distribution and that are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests will be taxed to the Non-U.S. Stockholder under
the provisions of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 ("FIRPTA") as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. business. Accordingly, a Non-U.S. Stockholder
that owns more than 5% of our common shares will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. Stockholder (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative
minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals). Distributions subject to FIRPTA also may be subject to a branch profits tax equal to 30% of its effectively connected earnings and profits
(subject to adjustments) if the recipient is a foreign corporate stockholder not entitled to treaty relief or exemption. Under FIRPTA, we are required to withhold 35% (which is higher than the maximum
rate on long-term capital gains of non-corporate persons) of any distribution to a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 5% of our common shares which is or
could be designated as a capital gain dividend attributable to U.S. real property interests. Moreover, if we designate previously made distributions as capital gain dividends attributable to U.S. real
property interests, subsequent distributions (up to the amount of such prior distributions) will be treated as capital gain dividends subject to FIRPTA withholding. This amount is creditable against
the Non-U.S. Stockholder's FIRPTA tax liability.

If
a Non-U.S. Stockholder does not own more than 5% of our common shares at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of a distribution, any capital
gain distributions, to the extent attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, will not be considered to be effectively connected with a U.S. business, and the
Non-U.S. Stockholder would not be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return by receiving such a distribution. In that case, the distribution will be treated as a REIT
dividend to that Non-U.S. Stockholder and taxed as a REIT dividend that is not a capital gain distribution (and subject to possible withholding), as described above. In addition, the
branch profits tax will not apply to the distribution. Any capital gain distribution, to the extent not attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, generally will not be
subject to U.S. federal income taxation (regardless of the amount of our common shares owned by a Non-U.S. Stockholder). For so long as our common stock continues to be regularly traded on
an established
securities market, the sale of such stock by any Non-U.S. Stockholder who is not a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder (as defined below) generally will not be subject to U.S.
federal income tax (unless the Non-U.S. Stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who was present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year of the sale
and certain other conditions apply, in which case such gain (net of certain sources within the U.S., if any) will be subject to a 30% tax on a gross basis). A "Five Percent Non-U.S.
Stockholder" is a Non-U.S. Stockholder who, at some time during the five-year period preceding such sale or disposition, beneficially owned (including under certain attribution
rules) more than 5% of the total fair market value of our common stock (as outstanding from time to time).

In
general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common stock by a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are a
"domestically controlled REIT." A REIT is a "domestically controlled REIT" if, at all times during the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less than 50% in value of its
shares is held directly or indirectly by Non-U.S. Stockholders. Although we believe that we currently qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, because our common stock is publicly
traded, we cannot provide any assurance that we do so qualify or that we will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT at any time in the future. If we do not constitute a domestically controlled
REIT, a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder generally will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to applicable
alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).



Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax

Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup withholding tax may be collected in connection with distributions paid or
required to be treated as paid during each calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Under the backup withholding rules, a stockholder may be
subject to backup withholding at the applicable rate (currently 28% and scheduled to increase to 31% in 2013) with respect to distributions paid and proceeds from a disposition of our common stock
unless such holder is a corporation, non-U.S. person or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer identification
number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who does not provide us with
its correct taxpayer identification number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.

Backup
withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax withheld. If
backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is furnished timely thereto.

As
a general matter, backup withholding and information reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by or through a foreign office of a foreign
broker. Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by a foreign office of a broker that is a U.S. person, a
foreign partnership that engaged during certain periods in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States or more than 50% of whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain
periods by U.S. persons, any foreign person that derives 50% or more of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, or a "controlled foreign
corporation" for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder and certain other conditions are satisfied, or the
stockholder otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock is subject to both backup withholding and information
reporting unless the stockholder certifies under penalties of perjury that the stockholder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder or otherwise establishes an exemption. A stockholder may obtain a
refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax liability by timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.

Other Tax Consequences

State and Local Taxes

We and/or our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder
transact business, own property or reside. State and local tax treatment may differ from the federal income tax treatment described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax
advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in connection with an investment in our common stock.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in effect,
could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under
review by persons involved in the legislative
process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established
concepts.



We
cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment in
our common stock.

ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors

This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe
all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that
we currently deem not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline.

We
have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:

•

Risks arising from our business;

•

Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•

Risks arising from our status as a REIT.

Risks Arising from Our Business

We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale
Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

The properties we lease to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI, and since the
Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living are triple-net leases, we also depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and
maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot provide any assurance that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income and access to
financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy those obligations, and any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to do so could have a
Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its
business reputation and its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living have also
agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot provide any assurance
that either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations.

The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Although Atria and Sunrise are managers, not tenants, of
our properties, adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

As of December 31, 2011, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, managed 197 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to
long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our revenues
and NOI. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Atria's and Sunrise's personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical
resources and information systems, proprietary
information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Atria and Sunrise to set resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial
results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate our properties in accordance with the terms of our management agreements



and
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. For example, we depend on Atria's and Sunrise's ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the
day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise or Atria to
enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, and Atria or Sunrise may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any
increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by Atria or Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior
management could adversely affect the income we receive from our seniors housing communities and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Because
Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as a triple-net
tenant. However, any adverse developments in Atria's or Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could impair their ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could
have a Material Adverse Effect on us. If Atria or Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to the weakened economy or otherwise, such
difficulties could result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or
the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, any one or a combination of which indirectly could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors.

We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or insolvent.
Although our lease, loan and management agreements provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain
insolvency events, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a
bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap could be
substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full. In addition, a
debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender,
compared to a landlord, are generally more limited. Similarly, if a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from
enforcing our remedies against the manager unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In the event of an obligor bankruptcy, we may also be required
to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or
transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager.

If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays,
limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term. If the Kindred Master Leases, our leases
with Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other leases are not renewed, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. In case of non-renewal, we
generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the
payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such



expiration.
However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant or operator in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease
altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases with new
tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt
costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and
liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Our
ability to reposition our properties with a suitable tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by
the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or
change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual
restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the
properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant
default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are
terminated or not renewed.

We are parties to long-term management agreements with each of Atria and Sunrise pursuant to which Atria and Sunrise,
collectively, provide comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 197 of our seniors housing communities.

Each
management agreement with Atria has a term of ten years commencing in 2011, subject to successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and each management agreement with
Sunrise has a term of 30 years commencing as early as 2004. Each management agreement with Atria or Sunrise may be terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by Atria or
Sunrise, respectively, in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in
most cases to the defaulting party's right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Atria or Sunrise, respectively. In addition, we may terminate each
management agreement with Atria based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets, and we may terminate each management agreement with Sunrise based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or
to comply with certain expense control covenants. Under certain circumstances, we may also terminate each management agreement with Atria upon the payment of a fee. Notwithstanding the provisions in
our management agreements, legal, contractual and other considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights.

In
the event that our management agreements with Atria or Sunrise are terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we would attempt to find another
manager for the properties covered by those agreements. Although we believe that many qualified national and regional seniors care providers would be interested in managing our seniors housing
communities, we cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that it would manage the properties
effectively. Moreover, any such replacement manager would require approval by the applicable regulatory authorities and, in most cases, the mortgage lenders for the properties, and we cannot provide
any assurance that such approvals would be granted on a timely basis or at all. Any inability or lengthy delay in replacing Atria or Sunrise as manager following termination or non-renewal
of our management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Our significant acquisition activity presents certain risks to our business and operations.

In 2010 and 2011, we acquired or signed definitive agreements to acquire more than $12 billion of assets, including our
acquisitions of Lillibridge, NHP and substantially all of the real estate assets of ASLG and our pending acquisition of Cogdell. Our significant acquisition activity presents certain risks to our
business and operations, including, among other things, that:

•

We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations or information technology of acquired companies, maintain
consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe or at all;

•

We may be unable to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract
highly qualified new employees;

•

Projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and
integration planning process might be inaccurate;

•

Acquisitions could divert management's attention from our existing assets;

•

The value of acquired assets or the market price of our common stock may decline; and

•

We may be unable to continue paying dividends at the current rate.

We
cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquired properties or integrate acquisitions without encountering difficulties or
that any such difficulties will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and profitability.

We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in
which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalations. Certain of our leases contain escalators contingent upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on changes in the
Consumer Price Index. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the revenues generated by our triple-net leased properties do not meet the specified parameters or the
Consumer Price Index does not increase, our growth and profitability will be hindered by these leases.

We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our operating assets, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or
increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our senior living and MOB operating assets, which
could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, thereby reducing our profitability. These operational risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to
achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of food, materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or
otherwise) and other services, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims, and the
availability and cost of professional and general liability insurance. Any or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies in our senior living operations or MOB operations
reportable business segments, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



The weakened economy could adversely impact our revenues and operating income, as well as the operating results of our tenants and operators, which could impair their
ability to meet their obligations to us.

Continued concerns about the U.S. economy and the systemic impact of high unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the
availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a severely distressed real estate market have contributed to increased market volatility and weakened business and consumer confidence. If
this difficult operating environment continues or worsens, it could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues in our senior living and MOB operations, thereby reducing
our operating income or causing us to experience operating deficiencies. It could also have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants and operators to maintain occupancy and rates in our
properties, which could harm their financial condition and impair their ability to make their rental payments and satisfy their other obligations to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
us.

Legislation to address the federal government's projected operating deficit could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results
of operations.

President Obama and members of the U.S. Congress have recently proposed various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives to reduce the
federal government's projected operating deficit. Some of these initiatives could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans.
Future federal legislation relating to deficit reduction that reduces reimbursement payments to healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial
condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loan investments, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be
unable to successfully reposition the properties, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.

If a borrower defaults under any of our mortgage loans, to protect our interest, we may foreclose on the loan or acquire title to the
property and make substantial
improvements or repairs to maximize the property's investment potential. In response to our actions to enforce mortgage obligations, the defaulting borrower may contest enforcement of foreclosure or
other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies, or bring claims for lender liability. If the borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay
provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the
bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in property value could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our mortgage loans upon
foreclosure, and we could be required to record valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loan investments, we may inherit
properties that we are unable to expeditiously reposition with new tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our investment.

Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations.

We intend to continue to pursue investments in, and acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and healthcare assets
domestically and internationally, subject to the contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness. Investments in and acquisitions of these properties entail
general risks associated with any real estate investment, including risks that the investment's performance will fail to meet expectations, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements
will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will



underperform.
Furthermore, healthcare properties are often highly customized and may require costly tenant-specific improvements.

Our
ability to compete successfully for investment and acquisition opportunities is affected by many factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital at rates comparable
to or better than our competitors. When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we compete with other healthcare REITs, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders, real estate
partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity firms and other investors, some of whom have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it
more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business objectives and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby
impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. See "Business—Competition" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
addition, new development projects that we pursue may experience construction delays or cost overruns that increase our expenses, fail to obtain required zoning, occupancy and other
governmental approvals and permits on a timely basis, or remain incomplete after incurring significant development costs. Investments in and acquisitions of properties outside the United States create
additional legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, such as currency exchange fluctuations and foreign tax risks. If we incur additional debt or issue equity
securities, or both, to finance future investments, acquisitions or development activity, our leverage could increase or our per share financial results could decline.

Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare real estate, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified.

We invest primarily in seniors housing and healthcare properties, and our ability to make investments outside the seniors housing or
healthcare industries is restricted by the terms of our existing indebtedness. This concentration exposes us to greater economic risk than if our portfolio included real estate assets in other
industries or non-real estate assets. For example, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement can have material adverse
consequences on the healthcare industry, some of which may be unintended. We cannot provide any assurance that future changes in government regulation of healthcare will not adversely affect the
healthcare industry, including our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and operators, which could have a more pronounced effect on us than if our investments were further diversified.

The
healthcare industry is also highly competitive. The occupancy levels at, and revenues from, our properties depend on the ability of our tenants, operators and managers to
successfully compete with other operators and managers, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the
properties, price and location. We cannot be certain that our tenants, operators and managers will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their
obligations to us, and our operators and managers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to attract residents and patients or expand their businesses, which could
materially adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Real
estate investments are relatively illiquid, and our ability to quickly sell or exchange our properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited. In the
event we desire or need to sell any of our properties, the value of those properties and our ability to sell at a price or on terms acceptable to us could be adversely affected by the current downturn
in the real estate industry or any weakness in the seniors housing and healthcare industries. In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not
required for transfers of other types of



commercial
properties. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recognize full value for any property that we sell for liquidity or other reasons, and the inability to respond quickly to changes
in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement.

Over the last several years, the regulatory environment of the long-term healthcare industry has intensified both in the
amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale Senior
Living, Atria and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of
operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or
abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers. Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in a significant
increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and
Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation" included in Item 1 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

If
our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they
could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or
be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants, operators and managers also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other
enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of our
properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict future federal, state and local
regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in
the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on
certain of our tenants and operators.

Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for
substantially all of their revenues. Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare
providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation"
included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Similarly, private third-party payors have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot provide any
assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to be provided by our tenants and operators that currently depend on Medicare, Medicaid or private payor reimbursement.
Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity,
financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of,
their leases with us.



Revenues from our senior living operations are dependent on private pay sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford daily
resident fees at our seniors housing communities could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline.

By and large, assisted and independent living services currently are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as
Medicare and Medicaid. Hence, substantially all of the resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or assets of residents
or their family members. In general, due to the expense associated with building new properties and the staffing and other costs of providing services at these properties, only seniors with income or
assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily resident and care fees. The continued weak economy and depressed
housing market, as well as other events such as changes in demographics, could adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford these fees. If the managers of our seniors housing
communities are unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy
rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major decisions, our reliance on our joint venture
partners' financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners, and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.

As of December 31, 2011, we had controlling interests in eleven MOBs and eighteen seniors housing communities owned through
joint ventures with third parties, and we had noncontrolling interests of between 5% and 25% in 58 MOBs, 20 seniors housing communities and fourteen skilled nursing facilities owned through joint
ventures with third parties. These joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:

•

We may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to
share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the
property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property;

•

For joint ventures in which we have a noncontrolling interest, our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;

•

Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted without prior consent
of our joint venture partners;

•

Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may
delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;

•

Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business
interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;

•

We may disagree with our joint venture partners about decisions affecting a property or the joint venture, which could
result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by
delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and



•

We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture
investments.

We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

Our ownership of twelve seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia subjects us to
fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates, which may, from time to time, impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we increase our international presence through investments
in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may
pursue hedging alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot provide any assurance that such fluctuations will not have a Material
Adverse Effect on us.

Our ownership of certain properties subject to ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination
of such agreements, limits our uses of these properties and restricts our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties.

We have investments in many of our MOBs and certain other properties through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are
located, through leases of air rights for the space above the land on which the buildings are located or through similar agreements, and we may acquire or develop additional properties in the future
that are subject to similar ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements. Under these agreements, we could lose our interests in the property upon termination or an earlier breach by us.
In addition, many of our ground lease, air rights and other restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our right to convey our interests in
such properties, which may limit our ability to timely sell or
exchange the properties and impair their value, or restrict the leasing of such properties, which may negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties.

Overbuilding in markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability.

The seniors housing and MOB industries generally have limited barriers to entry, and, as a consequence, the development of new seniors
housing communities or MOBs could outpace demand. If development outpaces demand for those asset types in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated and we
could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability.

Termination of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.

Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities generally require a written lease agreement with each resident that gives
the resident the right to terminate his or her lease agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident lease agreements entered into by the managers of our
seniors housing communities generally allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, unlike typical apartment lease agreements that have terms of one year or
longer, our managers cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a
large number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the same time, and if the affected units remain unoccupied, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in turn,
could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



The hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact
their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.

Our MOB operations depend on the viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health
systems in order to attract physicians
and other healthcare-related clients. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the
surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital on or near whose
campus one of our MOBs is located is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete
successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients. Because we rely on our proximity to and
affiliations with these hospitals to create demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially
adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Volatility or disruption in the capital markets could prevent our counterparties from satisfying their obligations to us.

Uncertainty in the capital markets and tightening of credit markets, similar to that experienced in recent years, could make accessing
new capital more challenging and more expensive for our counterparties. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability of our tenants,
operators and managers to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, any difficulty in
accessing capital or other sources of funds experienced by our other counterparties, such as letters of credit issuers, insurance carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow agents,
could prevent such counterparties from remaining viable entities or satisfying their obligations to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers may not adequately insure against losses.

We maintain or require in our existing lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain
adequate insurance coverage on our properties and their operations. Although we continually review the scope and level of insurance maintained by us and our tenants, operators and managers and believe
the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our tenants, operators and managers will continue to be able to
maintain adequate levels of insurance. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements,
that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the future financial viability of the insurers.

Should
an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well
as the anticipated future
revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot provide any assurance that
material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.



As
part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we
develop may result in substantial injury or damage to clients or third parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage would be adequate to cover the loss in full. If we
sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make a payment for the difference and could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the
affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Significant legal actions could subject us or our tenants, operators and managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially
adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.

From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against us in lawsuits and other legal proceedings arising out of our alleged
actions or the alleged actions of our tenants, operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and managers may have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. An unfavorable
resolution of any such pending or future litigation could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

In
some of these cases, we and our tenants, operators and managers may be subject to professional liability claims brought by plaintiffs' attorneys seeking significant punitive damages
and attorneys' fees. Due to the historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against healthcare and seniors housing providers, the availability of professional liability
insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain very high. As a result, our insurance coverage and the insurance coverage of our tenants, operators and managers might
not cover all claims against us or them and might not be available to us or them at a reasonable cost. If we or our tenants, operators and managers are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage
or are required to pay punitive damages, we or they may be exposed to substantial liabilities.

In
an effort to reduce and manage their costs and for various other reasons, many companies in the healthcare industry, including some of our tenants, operators and managers, are
pursuing different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or programs (commonly referred to as "captives") that may provide them with less insurance
coverage. Those companies that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and
professional liability through actuarial studies that rely primarily on historical data. However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these
actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims. As a result, the tenants, operators and
managers of our properties who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expense, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their obligations to us or, in the case of our senior living operations, our results of operations and, in either case, have
a Material Adverse Effect on us. Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive, any large funded and unfunded professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.

The success of our MOB business depends, to a large extent, on our past, current and future relationships with hospital and health
system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to develop



these
relationships, and our relationships have helped us to secure acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects,
with both new and existing clients. If our relationships with hospital or health system clients deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from
expanding these relationships, our ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities or other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects could be adversely
impacted and our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged.

Our MOB development projects, including development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield
anticipated returns.

A key component of our MOB long-term growth strategy is exploring development opportunities and, when appropriate, making
investments in those projects. In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular MOB development, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. These
assumptions are subject to risks normally associated with these projects, including, among others, that:

•

We may be unable to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all;

•

We may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;

•

We may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental
and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop the property to market standards;

•

Development or construction delays may provide tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur
additional costs;

•

Volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our development costs;

•

Hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule;

•

Our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the expectations of our clients or prospective clients;

•

We may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions;

•

Tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels projected;

•

Demand for our development project may decrease prior to completion, including due to competition from other developments;
and

•

Lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market
and economic conditions.

Moreover,
in MOB development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis, we generally construct properties for clients in exchange for a fixed fee, which
creates risks such as the inability to pass on increased labor and construction material costs to our clients, development and construction delays that could give our counterparties the right to
receive penalties from us, and bankruptcy or default by our contractors. We attempt to mitigate these risks by establishing certain limits on our obligations, shifting some of the risk to the general
contractor or seeking other legal protections, but we cannot provide any assurance that our mitigation efforts will be effective.

If
any of the risks described above occur, our MOB development projects, including development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint
ventures, may not yield anticipated returns, which could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our NOI is attributed could adversely affect our financial results.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 42.1% of our NOI was derived from properties located in California (12.5%),
Illinois (7.1%), Texas (6.1%), Massachusetts (5.8%), New York (5.7%), and Florida (4.9%). As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including
downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our
business and results of operations.

Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.

Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat
fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These
lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against our operators, such
suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operation and
on their ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

If any of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs.

Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related
to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property.
Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or
natural resources. Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or
toxic substances or petroleum. In certain
circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property. Although we are generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties
for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. See "Governmental Regulation—Environmental Regulation" included in Item 1 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain key personnel, and the loss of any one of them could adversely impact our business.

The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and
our ability to retain and motivate these individuals could significantly impact our future performance. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will
retain our key officers and employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. Losing any one or more of these persons could have a Material
Adverse Effect on us.

Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial
reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of



such
control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements
because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement
required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we
could fail to meet our reporting obligations.

If the liabilities we have assumed in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our business could be materially and
adversely affected.

We may have certain liabilities in connection with our acquisitions, including, in some cases, contingent liabilities. As we integrate
these acquisitions, we may learn additional information about the sellers, the properties, their operations and/or their liabilities that adversely affects us, such
as:

•

Liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;

•

Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the sellers;

•

Liabilities, claims and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course
of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisition;

•

Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the sellers; and

•

Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition.

As
a result, we cannot provide any assurance that our past acquisitions will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are greater
than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the acquired properties or businesses of which we were not aware at the time we completed the acquisition, our business and results of operations
could be materially adversely affected.

Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure

We may become more leveraged.

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $6.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness (including capital lease
obligations). The instruments governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, and we may elect to meet our capital and liquidity needs
through additional borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the
funds available to implement our business strategy and make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:

•

Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a
downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate or healthcare industries;

•

Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing for our business strategy; and

•

Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of,
among other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our cost of borrowing.



In
addition, from time to time, we mortgage our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be
foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value.

We are exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in
acquisition and investment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective.

We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in
which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest rate and related
payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR, Bankers' Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our obligations create
interest rate risk. Although our operating assets provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if interest rates rise, our interest costs for our existing floating rate debt and any new
debt we incur would also increase. This increased cost could reduce our profitability, make our lease and other revenues insufficient to meet our obligations, or increase the cost of financing our
acquisition and investment activity. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt upon maturity or cause us to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in
interest rates may also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
other conditions.

We
may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility with hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we may earn from hedging transactions may be limited
by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than would otherwise be the case. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can completely
insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future
investments necessary to implement our business strategy.

We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise the necessary capital to meet our debt service obligations, make
distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In recent years, the
global capital and credit markets experienced a period of extraordinary turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of
various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. The disruption in the credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of
the financial and real estate markets created difficult conditions for REITs and other companies to access capital or other sources of funds. Although access to capital and other sources of funding
have improved, we cannot provide any assurance that conditions will not deteriorate or that our access to capital and other sources of funding will not become constrained, which could adversely affect
our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, the federal government's failure to increase the amount of debt that it is statutorily permitted to incur as needed to meet its future
financial commitments or a downgrade in the debt rating on U.S. government securities could lead to a weakened U.S. dollar, rising interest rates and constrained access to capital, which could
materially adversely affect the U.S. and global economies, increase our costs of borrowing and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



To
address constraints on our access to capital, we could, among other things, (i) obtain commitments from the banks in our lending group or from new banks to fund increased
amounts under the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facility or our unsecured term loan facilities, (ii) access the public capital markets, (iii) obtain secured loans from
government-sponsored entities, pension funds or similar sources, (iv) decrease or eliminate our distributions to our stockholders or pay taxable stock dividends, or (v) delay or cease
our acquisition and investment activity. As with other public companies, our access to debt and equity capital depends, in part, on the trading prices of our senior notes and common stock, which, in
turn, depend upon market conditions that change from time to time, such as the market's perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and our current and future earnings and cash
distributions. Our failure to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions or a significant downgrade in the ratings assigned to our long-term debt
could impact our ability to access capital or increase our borrowing costs. If we cannot access capital at an acceptable cost or at all, we may be required to liquidate one or more investments in
properties at times that may not permit us to realize the maximum return on those investments, which could also result in adverse tax consequences to us. Restrictions on our uses of, and our right to
transfer, properties under certain healthcare regulations, ground leases, mortgages and other agreements to which our properties may be subject could adversely impact our ability to timely liquidate
those investments and impair their value.

If
the financial institutions that are parties to our unsecured revolving credit facility become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they
experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely
affect our ability to draw on our unsecured revolving credit facility and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital
expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. Adverse conditions in the credit markets could also adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals or refinancings.

Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.

The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other
covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject
to our compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments and could trigger defaults
under any other indebtedness that is cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well
as defaults resulting from our breach of any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT

Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.

If we lose our status as a REIT (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired),
we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to satisfy our obligations, to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to our stockholders
for each of the years involved because:

•

We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;



•

We could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and

•

Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four
taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified.

In
addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.

Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
determination of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control, as well as new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, may adversely affect our
investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT for
tax purposes.

The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions.

To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements" included in
Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, such distributions may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently acquired
properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments.

Although
we do not anticipate any inability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to do so. For example,
timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our
taxable income, on the other hand, or non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us
to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement.

In
the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may, if possible,
borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution
requirements. Any of these actions may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see "—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—Limitations on
our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our
business strategy." The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions.

To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a
change of control of our company.

To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial
ownership of more than 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock or more than 9.0% of our common stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are considered to be
"excess shares" and are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is
entitled to all dividends with respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the excess shares. In addition, we have the right to purchase the excess



shares
for a price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we purchase the shares, but if we
do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the shares at the direction of our Board of Directors. These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a
transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.

If we decide to pay taxable stock dividends to meet the REIT distribution requirements, your tax liability may be greater than the amount of cash you receive.

Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS has stated that it will treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of
satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years 2008 through 2012 if each stockholder can elect to receive the distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to all
stockholders is limited, provided certain requirements are met. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2010-12, your tax liability with
respect to such dividend may be significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive.



ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

ITEM 2.

Properties

Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties

As of December 31, 2011, we owned 1,378 properties located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian
provinces, consisting of: 678 seniors housing communities; 396 skilled nursing facilities; 47 hospitals; 249 MOBs; and eight personal care facilities. We also were in the process of
developing three properties as of December 31, 2011. We believe that the asset class, tenant, operator and manager, geographic location, revenue source and business model diversity of our
portfolio makes us less susceptible to regional economic downturns and adverse changes in regulation or reimbursement rates or methodologies in any single state or with respect to any particular asset
type.

At
December 31, 2011, our share of mortgage loan obligations outstanding was $2.7 billion and the consolidated aggregate principal amount was $2.8 billion, secured
by 228 of our properties.



The
following table sets forth select information regarding our portfolio of properties as of December 31, 2011 for each geographic location in which we own property:

Seniors Housing

Communities

Skilled Nursing

Facilities

Hospitals

MOBs

Other

Properties

Geographic Location

Number of

Properties

Units

Number of

Facilities

Licensed

Beds

Number of

Hospitals

Licensed

Beds

Number of

Properties

Number of

Properties

Alabama





—

—


—

Arizona


1,614






—

Arkansas





—

—

—

—

California


7,534


1,114




—

Colorado


1,322






—

Connecticut


1,515



—

—

—

—

District of Columbia

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

Florida


4,519






—

Georgia


1,200



—

—


—

Idaho





—

—

—

—

Illinois


2,561






—

Indiana


1,751


3,782




—

Kansas





—

—

—

—

Kentucky




3,254



—

—

Louisiana



—

—




—

Maine





—

—

—

—

Maryland





—

—


—

Massachusetts


2,019


5,504



—

—

Michigan


1,459

—

—

—

—


—

Minnesota





—

—


—

Mississippi



—

—

—

—

—

—

Missouri




1,090




—

Montana





—

—

—

—

Nebraska



—

—

—

—

—

—

Nevada








—

New Hampshire

—

—



—

—

—

—

New Jersey


1,165



—

—

—

—

New Mexico



—

—



—

—

New York


4,458


1,566

—

—

—

—

North Carolina


1,645


1,876



—

—

North Dakota



—

—

—

—

—

—

Ohio


1,892


2,943

—

—


—

Oklahoma







—

—

Oregon


1,504


1,290

—

—


—

Pennsylvania


2,670


1,037




—

Rhode Island





—

—

—

—

South Carolina





—

—


—

South Dakota





—

—

—

—

Tennessee


1,760






—

Texas


2,938


5,526





Utah





—

—

—

—

Vermont

—

—



—

—

—

—

Virginia




1,380

—

—


—

Washington


1,853


1,879

—

—


—

West Virginia





—

—

—

—

Wisconsin


2,931


2,498

—

—


—

Wyoming





—

—


—

Total U.S


56,958


45,873


3,822



British Columbia



—

—

—

—

—

—

Ontario



—

—

—

—

—

—

Total Canada


1,124

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total


58,082


45,873


3,822





Corporate Offices

Our headquarters are located in Chicago, Illinois, and we have additional offices in Louisville, Kentucky, Dallas, Texas and Newport
Beach, California. We lease all of our corporate offices.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

The information contained in "Note 16—Litigation" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 3. Except as set forth therein, we are not a party to, nor is any
of our property the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings.

ITEM 4.

(Removed and Reserved)

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock, par value $0.25 per share, is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "VTR."
The following table sets forth, for
the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported on the NYSE and the dividends declared per share.

Sales Price of

Common Stock

Dividends

Declared

High

Low


First Quarter

$

57.45

$

50.98

$

0.575

Second Quarter

57.08

50.87

0.575

Third Quarter

55.75

43.25

0.575

Fourth Quarter

56.73

46.21

0.575


First Quarter

$

49.24

$

40.36

$

0.535

Second Quarter

50.33

43.14

0.535

Third Quarter

53.89

45.77

0.535

Fourth Quarter

56.20

48.53

0.535

As
of February 14, 2012, we had 288,915,189 shares of our common stock outstanding held by approximately 3,540 stockholders of record.

Dividends and Distributions

We pay regular quarterly dividends to holders of our common stock to comply with the provisions of the Code governing REITs. On
February 15, 2012, our Board of Directors declared the first quarterly installment of our 2012 dividend in the amount of $0.62 per share, payable in cash on March 29, 2012 to
stockholders of record on March 9, 2012. We expect to distribute at least 100% of our taxable net income, after the use of any net operating loss carryforwards, to our stockholders for 2012.
See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements" included in Part I, Item 1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



In general, our Board of Directors makes decisions regarding the nature, frequency and amount of our dividends on a quarterly basis. Because the Board considers a
number of factors when making these decisions, including our current and future liquidity needs and financial condition, our current and projected results of operations and the performance and credit
quality of our tenants, operators, managers and borrowers, we cannot provide any assurance that we will maintain the policy of paying regular quarterly dividends to continue to qualify as a REIT.
Please see "Cautionary Statements" and the risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of other factors that may
affect our distribution policy.

Our
stockholders may reinvest all or a portion of any cash distribution on their shares of our common stock by participating in our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan,
subject to the terms of the plan. See "Note 17—Capital Stock" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Director and Employee Stock Sales

Certain of our directors, executive officers and other employees have adopted and may, from time to time in the future, adopt
non-discretionary, written trading plans that comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act, or otherwise monetize their equity-based compensation.

Each
of our executive officers has advised us that he or she has not pledged any of our equity securities to secure "margin loans." Our Securities Trading Policy prohibits our directors,
executive officers and employees from buying or selling financial instruments that are designed to hedge or offset a decrease in the market value of our securities.

Stock Repurchases

The table below summarizes repurchases of our common stock made during the quarter ended December 31, 2011:

Number of Shares

Repurchased(1)

Average Price

Per Share

October 1 through October 31


$

48.20

November 1 through November 30

14,033

$

52.90

December 1 through December 31

19,224

$

55.00

(1)

Repurchases
represent shares withheld to pay (i) taxes on the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units or on the exercise of options
granted to employees under our 2006 Incentive Plan or under the NHP 2005 Performance Incentive Plan and assumed by us in connection with our acquisition of NHP or (ii) the exercise price of
options granted to employees under the NHP 2005 Performance Incentive Plan and assumed by us in connection with our acquisition of NHP. The value of the shares withheld is the closing price of our
common stock on the date the vesting or exercise occurs or the fair market value of our common stock at the time of exercise, as the case may be.

Stock Performance Graph

The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return (including dividends) to the holders of our common stock from
December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2011, with the cumulative total returns of the NYSE Composite Index, the FTSE NAREIT Composite REIT Index (the "Composite REIT Index"), the FTSE
NAREIT Healthcare Equity REIT Index (the "Healthcare REIT Index") and the S&P 500® Index over the same period. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006
in our common stock and in each of the foregoing indexes and assumes reinvestment of dividends, as applicable. We have included the NYSE Composite Index in the



performance
graph because our common stock is listed on the NYSE. We have included the other indexes (other than the S&P 500® Index, of which we are a member) because we believe
that they are either most representative of the industry in which we compete, or otherwise provide a fair basis for comparison with us, and are therefore particularly relevant to an assessment of our
performance. The figures in the table below are rounded to the nearest dollar.

12/31/2006

12/31/2007

12/31/2008

12/31/2009

12/31/2010

12/31/2011

Ventas

$


$


$


$


$


$


NYSE Composite Index

$


$


$


$


$


$


Composite REIT Index

$


$


$


$


$


$


Healthcare REIT Index

$


$


$


$


$


$


S&P 500 Index

$


$


$


$


$


$




ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

You should read the following selected financial data in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting policies and other items impact the comparability of the financial data.

As of and For the Years Ended December 31,






(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Operating Data

Rental income

$

819,580

$

531,456

$

488,458

$

468,715

$

446,469

Resident fees and services

873,308

446,301

421,058

429,257

282,226

Interest expense

236,807

175,631

173,810

199,135

191,022

Property-level operating expenses

651,561

315,953

302,813

306,944

198,125

General, administrative and professional fees

74,537

49,830

38,830

40,651

36,425

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

362,810

215,324

190,423

171,660

128,149

Discontinued operations

1,683

30,843

76,072

50,943

145,532

Net income attributable to common stockholders

364,493

246,167

266,495

222,603

273,681

Per Share Data

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, basic

$

1.59

$

1.37

$

1.25

$

1.23

$

1.05

Net income attributable to common stockholders, basic

$

1.60

$

1.57

$

1.75

$

1.59

$

2.23

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, diluted

$

1.57

$

1.36

$

1.24

$

1.23

$

1.04

Net income attributable to common stockholders, diluted

$

1.58

$

1.56

$

1.74

$

1.59

$

2.22

Dividends declared per common share

$

2.30

$

2.14

$

2.05

$

2.05

$

1.90

Other Data

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

773,197

$

447,622

$

422,101

$

379,907

$

404,600

Net cash used in investing activities

(997,439

)

(301,920

)

(1,746

)

(136,256

)

(1,175,192

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

248,282

(231,452

)

(490,180

)

(95,979

)

802,675

FFO(1)

824,851

421,506

393,409

412,357

374,218

Normalized FFO(1)

776,963

453,981

409,045

379,469

327,136

Balance Sheet Data

Real estate investments, at cost

$

17,830,262

$

6,747,699

$

6,399,421

$

6,256,562

$

6,380,703

Cash and cash equivalents

45,807

21,812

107,397

176,812

28,334

Total assets

17,271,910

5,758,021

5,616,245

5,771,418

5,718,475

Senior notes payable and other debt

6,429,116

2,900,044

2,670,101

3,136,998

3,346,531

(1)

We
believe that net income, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we
consider Funds From Operations ("FFO") and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating performance of an equity REIT. Moreover, we believe that normalized FFO provides useful information because
it allows investors, analysts and our management to compare our operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate



companies
and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated items and other events such as transactions and litigation. We use the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate
property and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments
for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. We define normalized FFO as FFO excluding the following income and expense items (which may be
recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of real property assets; (b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and
integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses and recoveries relating to our lawsuit against HCP, Inc. and the issuance of preferred stock or bridge loan fees;
(c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts,
make-whole payments, penalties or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of our debt; (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses;
(e) the impact of future unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) and capital transactions; (f) the financial impact of contingent
consideration; (g) charitable donations made to the Ventas Charitable Foundation; and (h) gains and losses for non-operational foreign currency hedge agreements and changes
in the fair value of financial instruments.

FFO
and normalized FFO presented herein are not necessarily identical to FFO and normalized FFO presented by other real estate companies due to
the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO should not be considered alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of
our financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of our liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO necessarily
indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of our needs. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Funds From Operations" included in
Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of these measures to our GAAP earnings.

ITEM 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of
the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or
"our"). You should read this discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
This Management's Discussion and Analysis will help you understand:

•

Who we are and the environment in which we operate;

•

Our 2011 operating highlights and recent developments;

•

Our critical accounting policies and estimates;

•

Our results of operations for the last three years;

•

How we manage our assets and liabilities;

•

Our liquidity and capital resources;

•

Our cash flows; and

•

Our future contractual obligations.

Corporate and Operating Environment

We are a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties
throughout the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2011,



we
owned 1,378 properties located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces, consisting of: 678 seniors housing communities; 396 skilled nursing facilities;
47 hospitals; 249 medical office buildings ("MOBs"); and eight personal care facilities. We also were in the process of developing three properties as of December 31, 2011. We are
headquartered in Chicago, Illinois and have been a constituent member of the S&P 500® Index, a leading indicator of the large cap U.S. equities market, since March 2009.

Our
primary business focuses on acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to unaffiliated tenants or operating those properties through
independent third-party managers. Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ("Lillibridge") subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ("PMBRES"), which we acquired
in July 2011 in connection with our acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "NHP"), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development
and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. In addition, from time to time, we make mortgage loan and other investments relating to seniors housing
and healthcare companies or properties.

We
currently operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and MOB operations. See
"Note 20—Segment Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had: 100% ownership interests in 1,257 properties; controlling interests in eleven MOBs and eighteen seniors housing communities owned through
joint ventures with third parties; and noncontrolling interests ranging between 5% and 25% in 58 MOBs, 20 seniors housing communities and fourteen skilled nursing facilities owned through joint
ventures with third parties. Through Lillibridge and PMBRES, we also provided management and leasing services to third parties with respect to 44 MOBs as of December 31, 2011.

As
of December 31, 2011, we leased 929 properties (excluding MOBs) to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases
that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent third parties, such as
Atria Senior Living, Inc. ("Atria") and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise"), to manage 200 seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management
agreements. Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. ("Brookdale Senior Living") leased 198 and 167 of our properties, respectively, as of
December 31, 2011 (excluding six properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities).

Our
business strategy focuses on three principal objectives: (1) generating consistent, reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a well-diversified
portfolio; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.

Access
to external capital is critical to the success of our business strategy as it impacts our ability to meet our existing commitments, including repaying maturing indebtedness, and
to make future investments. Our access to and cost of capital depend on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our
potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common stock. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of our investments in senior housing and
healthcare properties with long-term financing through the issuance of shares of our common stock or the incurrence of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2011, only 22.1% of our
consolidated debt was variable rate debt (excluding debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale).



2011 Operating Highlights and Recent Developments

•

In 2011, our Board of Directors declared and we paid cash dividends on our common stock in the aggregate amount of $2.30
per share, representing a 7.5% increase over our aggregate 2010 dividends of $2.14 per share.

•

In February 2011, we completed the sale of 5,563,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering
pursuant to our shelf registration statement and used the aggregate proceeds of $300.0 million to repay existing mortgage debt and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.

•

Also in February 2011, we repaid in full mortgage loans outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of
$307.2 million and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $16.5 million in connection with this repayment in the first quarter of 2011.

•

In May 2011, we issued and sold $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021, at a
public offering price equal to 99.132% of par for total proceeds of $693.9 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.

•

Also in May 2011, we acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately-owned Atria
Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, "ASLG"), which added 117 seniors housing communities and one land parcel to our senior living operating portfolio. See
"Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

•

In July 2011, we acquired publicly traded NHP in a stock-for-stock transaction, which expanded our
portfolio by 643 seniors housing and healthcare properties. See "Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

•

In July 2011, we: amended our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as previously amended, to increase the
number of authorized shares of our capital stock to 610,000,000, comprised of 600,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock; amended our Fourth Amended and
Restated By-Laws to increase the maximum number of directors allowed to serve on the Board of Directors at any time from eleven to thirteen; and appointed three former NHP directors to our
Board.

•

Also in July 2011, we redeemed $200.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 6


/


% senior notes
due 2016, at a redemption price equal to 103.25% of par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $8.7 million in the third
quarter of 2011, and we repaid in full, at par, $339.0 million principal amount then outstanding of NHP's 6.50% senior notes due 2011 upon maturity.

•

In August 2011, the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky ruled that HCP, Inc. ("HCP")
could not further delay enforcement of our $101.6 million compensatory damages award, and HCP paid us $102.8 million for the judgment plus certain costs and interest; in November 2011,
HCP paid us an additional $125 million in final settlement of our outstanding lawsuit against HCP; and for the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded approximately
$202.3 million in net income as a result of this litigation, after certain fees and expenses, the contingent fee for our outside legal counsel and donations to the Ventas Charitable Foundation,
which supports worthwhile causes important to our customers, our employees and our communities. See "Note 16—Litigation" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

•

In October 2011, we repaid all borrowings outstanding and terminated the commitments under our unsecured revolving credit
facilities and entered into a new $2.0 billion unsecured revolving



credit
facility, currently priced at LIBOR plus 110 basis points. See "Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

•

In November 2011, we repaid in cash $230.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 3


/


%
convertible senior notes due 2011 upon maturity and issued an aggregate of 943,714 shares of our common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount.

•

In December 2011, we entered into a new $500.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a weighted average
maturity of 4.5 years, priced at LIBOR plus 125 basis points, and concurrently terminated the commitments under the $800.0 million term loan that we assumed in connection with the NHP
acquisition.

•

In December 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire publicly traded Cogdell Spencer Inc. ("Cogdell"), and its
72 MOBs in an all-cash transaction.

•

During 2011, we also invested approximately $329.5 million, including the assumption of $134.9 million in
debt, in MOBs and seniors housing communities.

•

During 2011, we received aggregate proceeds of $218.5 million in final repayment of eight secured loans receivable
and recognized an aggregate gain of $4.4 million in connection with these repayments for the year ended December 31, 2011.

•

In February 2012, we issued and sold $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2022, at a
public offering price equal to 99.214% of par, for total proceeds of $595.3 million before the underwriting discount and expenses.

•

In February 2012, we sold nine seniors housing communities for aggregate consideration of $121.3 million.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") set forth in the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"), as published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB"). GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions regarding future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base these estimates on our experience and assumptions we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances. However, if our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, we may have applied
a different accounting treatment, resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. We periodically reevaluate our estimates and assumptions, and in the event they prove to be
different from actual results, we make adjustments in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the critical
accounting policies described below, among others, affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. For more information regarding our critical
accounting policies, see "Note 2—Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Principles of Consolidation

The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include our
accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and the joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in



consolidation,
and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests.

We
apply FASB guidance for arrangements with variable interest entities ("VIEs"), which requires us to identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights and to
determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity with one or more of the following characteristics: (a) the total equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance the entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support; (b) as a group, the holders of the equity investment at risk lack
(i) the ability to make decisions about the entity's activities through voting or similar rights, (ii) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity, or (iii) the
right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity; or (c) the equity investors have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests, and substantially all of the
entity's activities either involve, or are conducted on behalf of, an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the
primary beneficiary of the VIE. We may change our original assessment of a VIE due to events such as modifications of contractual arrangements that affect the characteristics or adequacy of the
entity's equity investments at risk and the disposal of all or a portion of an interest held by the primary beneficiary. We identify the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both:
(i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We perform this analysis on an ongoing basis.

We
also apply FASB guidance related to investments in joint ventures based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s) that may preclude consolidation by the sole general
partner in certain circumstances in which the general partner would otherwise consolidate the joint venture. We assess limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control of the
limited partnership by the sole general partner when an investor becomes the sole general partner, and we reassess if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights
of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of
outstanding limited partnership interests. We also apply this guidance to managing member interests in limited liability companies.

Business Combinations

We account for acquisitions using the acquisition method and allocate the cost of the properties acquired among tangible and recognized
intangible assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles primarily include the value of in-place leases, acquired lease
contracts, tenant and customer relationships, trade names/trademarks and goodwill. We do not amortize goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net
assets of the acquired business and is included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Our
method for allocating the purchase price to acquired investments in real estate requires us to make subjective assessments for determining fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. This includes determining the value of the buildings, land and improvements, ground leases, tenant improvements, in-place leases, above and/or below market leases,
purchase option intangible assets and/or liabilities, and any debt assumed. These estimates require significant judgment and in some cases involve complex calculations. These allocation assessments
directly impact our results of operations, as amounts allocated to certain assets and liabilities have different depreciation or
amortization lives. In addition, we amortize the value assigned to above and/or below market leases as a component of revenue, unlike in-place leases and other intangibles, which we
include in depreciation and amortization in our Consolidated Statements of Income.



We
estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building, not to
exceed 35 years. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets, such as site improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment, based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such
value over the assets' estimated remaining useful lives as determined at the applicable acquisition date. We determine the value of land by considering the sales prices of similar properties in recent
transactions or based on (a) internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio or (b) real estate tax assessed values in relation to the
total value of the asset.

The
fair value of acquired lease intangibles, if any, reflects (i) the estimated value of any above and/or below market leases, determined by discounting the difference between
the estimated market rent and the in-place rent, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which we amortize to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any
bargain renewal periods, and (ii) the estimated value of in-place leases related to the cost to obtain tenants, including leasing commissions, and an estimated value of the
absorption period to reflect the value of the rent and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period as if the acquired space was vacant, which we amortize to amortization
expense over the remaining life of the associated lease. If a lease were to be terminated prior to its stated expiration or not renewed, all unamortized amounts of lease intangibles would be
recognized in operations at that time.

We
estimate the fair value of purchase option intangible assets or liabilities by discounting the difference between the applicable property's acquisition date fair value and an estimate
of the future option price. We do not amortize the resulting intangible asset or liability over the term of the lease, but rather adjust the recognized value of the asset or liability upon exercise of
the purchase option.

We
estimate the fair value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired, if any, by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant or
customer, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant or customer, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant,
additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant and amortize that value over the expected life of the associated arrangements or leases, including the remaining terms of the related leases and
any expected renewal periods. We estimate the fair value of trade names/trademarks using a royalty rate methodology and amortize that value over the estimated useful life of the trade name/trademark.

In
connection with a business combination, we may assume the rights and obligations under certain lease agreements pursuant to which we become the lessee of a given property. We assume
the lease classification previously determined by the prior lessee absent a modification in the assumed lease agreement. In connection with our recent acquisitions, all capital leases acquired or
assumed contain bargain purchase options that we intend to exercise. Therefore, we recognized an asset based on the acquisition date fair value of the underlying property and a liability based on the
acquisition date fair value of the capital lease obligation. We depreciate assets recognized under capital leases that contain bargain purchase options over the asset's useful life. We assess assumed
operating leases, including ground leases, to determine whether the lease terms are favorable or unfavorable given current market conditions on the acquisition date. To the extent the lease terms are
favorable or unfavorable relative to market conditions on the acquisition date, we recognize an intangible asset or liability, respectively, at fair value, and we amortize the recognized asset or
liability (excluding purchase option intangibles) to interest or rental expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income over the applicable lease term. We include all lease-related intangible assets
and all lease-related intangible liabilities within acquired lease intangibles and accounts payable and other liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



We determine fair value of loans receivable acquired in connection with a business combination by discounting the estimated future cash flows using current
interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities and same terms would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings. The estimated future cash flows reflect our judgment regarding the
uncertainty of those cash flows, so we do not establish a valuation allowance at the acquisition date. We recognize the difference between the acquisition date fair value and the total expected cash
flows as interest income using an effective interest method over the life of the applicable loan. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we evaluate changes regarding the uncertainty of future cash flows
and the need for a valuation allowance.

We
estimate the fair value of noncontrolling interests assumed using assumptions that are consistent with those used in valuing all of the underlying assets and liabilities.

We
base the initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities on the fair value of the assets at the time we acquired the joint venture interest. We estimate fair values
for our equity method investments based on discounted cash flow models that include all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and, where applicable, any estimated debt
premiums or discounts. The capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads we use in these models are based upon assumptions that we believe to be within a reasonable range of current market
rates for the respective investments.

We
generally amortize any difference between our cost basis and the basis reflected at the joint venture level over the lives of the related assets and liabilities and include it in our
share of income or loss from unconsolidated entities. In other instances, net income or loss is allocated between the partners in the joint venture based on the hypothetical liquidation at book value
method.

We
calculate the fair value of long-term debt by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings, which we
approximate based on the rate we would expect to incur to replace the instrument on the date of acquisition, and recognize any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt as effective
yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.

We
record a liability for contingent consideration (included in accounts payable and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets) at fair value as of the acquisition date and
reassess the fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any changes being recognized in earnings. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration can result from changes
in discount periods, discount rates and probabilities that contingencies will be met.

Impairment of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets

We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment
indicators. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying
operations. In performing this evaluation, we consider market conditions as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. We adjust the net book value of leased properties and
other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows, including sales proceeds, is less than book value. We recognize an impairment loss at the
time we make any such determination.

If
impairment indicators arise with respect to intangible assets with finite useful lives, we evaluate impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future
undiscounted net cash flows to be generated by the asset. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, then we estimate the fair value of the asset.
We determine the impairment loss by comparing the estimated fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying value and recognize any shortfall from fair value as a loss in the current period.



We
evaluate our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture
may exceed the fair value. If it is determined that a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture is other-than-temporary, and if such
reduced fair value is below its carrying value, an impairment is recorded. The determination of the fair value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures involves significant judgment. Our
estimates consider all available evidence, including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at market rates, general economic conditions and trends and other
relevant factors.

Goodwill
is tested for impairment at least annually, but more frequently if indicators arise. We first assess qualitative factors to determine the likelihood that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors we assess include current macroeconomic conditions, state of the equity and capital markets and our overall financial and operating
performance. If we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we proceed with the two-step approach to evaluating
impairment. In the first step of this approach, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit and compare it to the reporting unit's carrying value. Should the carrying value exceed fair value, we
proceed with the second step. The second step of this approach requires the fair value of a reporting unit to be assigned to all the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if it had been
acquired in a business combination at the date of the impairment test. The excess fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities is the implied value of
goodwill and is used to determine the amount of impairment. We recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied value in the current period.

Estimates
of fair value used in this evaluation of goodwill, investments in real estate and intangibles are based upon discounted future cash flow projections, which are, in turn, based
upon a number of estimates and assumptions, such as revenue and expense growth rates and discount rates. Our ability to accurately predict future operating results and cash flows and estimate and
allocate fair values impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our financial
results.

Loans Receivable

We record loans receivable, other than those acquired in connection with a business combination, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets
(either in secured loans receivable, net or, with respect to unsecured loans receivable, other assets) at the unpaid principal balance, net of any
deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or premiums and valuation allowances. We amortize net deferred origination fees, which are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of
certain direct costs, and purchase discounts or premiums over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method and recognize any unamortized balances in income immediately if the
loan is repaid before its contractual maturity.

We
regularly evaluate the collectibility of loans receivable based on several factors, including without limitation (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational
reports, (ii) compliance with any financial covenants set forth in the applicable loan agreement, (iii) the financial strength of the borrower and any guarantor, (iv) the payment
history of the borrower, and (v) current economic conditions. If our evaluation of these factors indicates it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the
terms of the applicable loan agreement, we provide a reserve against the portion of the receivable that we estimate may not be collected.

Fair Value

We follow FASB guidance that defines fair value and provides direction for measuring fair value and making the necessary related
disclosures. The guidance emphasizes that fair value is a market-



based
measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for
considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data
obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market
participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).

Level
one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the reporting entity has the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs
other than quoted prices included in level one that are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in
active markets, as well as other inputs for the asset or liability, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves, that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three
inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on the reporting entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. If the
determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different
levels of the hierarchy, the level within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. If an
entity determines there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability relative to the normal market activity for such asset or liability (or similar
assets or liabilities), then transactions or quoted prices may not accurately reflect fair value. In addition, if there is evidence that the transaction for the asset or liability is not orderly, the
entity shall place little, if any, weight on that transaction price as an indicator of fair value. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its
entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.

Revenue Recognition

Triple-Net Leased Properties and MOB Operations

Certain of our triple-net leases, including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and the majority of
leases we acquired in connection with the NHP acquisition, and most of our MOB leases provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. We recognize base rental revenues under these leases
on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease term when collectibility is reasonably assured. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized
revenues during the first half of a lease term exceeding the cash amounts contractually due from our tenants, creating a straight-line rent receivable that is included in other assets on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Our
master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") and certain of our other leases provide for periodic increases in base rent only if certain revenue parameters or
other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases as the related parameters or contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line
basis over the applicable lease term.

Senior Living Operations

We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are provided. We recognize
move-in
fees on a straight-line basis over the average resident stay. Our lease agreements with residents generally have a term of twelve to eighteen months and are cancelable by the resident upon
30 days' notice.



Other

We recognize interest income from loans, including discounts and premiums, using the effective interest method when collectibility is
reasonably assured. We apply the effective interest method on a loan-by-loan basis and recognize discounts and premiums as yield adjustments over the related loan term. We
recognize interest income on an impaired loan to the extent our estimate of the fair value of the collateral is sufficient to support the balance of the loan, other receivables and all related accrued
interest. When the balance of the loan, other receivables and all related accrued interest is equal to our estimate of the fair value of the collateral, we recognize interest income on a cash basis.
We provide a reserve against an impaired loan to the extent our total investment in the loan exceeds our estimate of the fair value of the loan collateral.

We
recognize income from rent, lease termination fees, development services, management advisory services and all other income when all of the following criteria are met in accordance
with Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the applicable agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered;
(iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.

Allowances

We assess the collectibility of our rent receivables, including straight-line rent receivables, in accordance with the
applicable accounting standards and our reserve policy, and we defer recognition of revenue if collectibility is not reasonably assured. We base our assessment of the collectibility of rent
receivables (excluding straight-line receivables) on several factors, including, among other things, payment history, the financial strength of the tenant and any guarantors, the value of
the underlying collateral, if any, and current economic conditions. If our evaluation of these factors indicates it is probable that we will be unable to recover the full value of the receivable, we
provide a reserve against the portion of the receivable that we
estimate may not be recovered. We base our assessment of the collectibility of straight-line receivables on several factors, including, among other things, the financial strength of the
tenant and any guarantors, the historical operations and operating trends of the property, the historical payment pattern of the tenant, and the type of property. If our evaluation of these factors
indicates it is probable that we will be unable to receive the rent payments due in the future, we defer recognition of the straight-line rental income and, in certain circumstances,
provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recovered. If we change our
assumptions or estimates regarding the collectibility of future rent payments required by a lease, we may adjust our reserve to increase or reduce the rental revenue recognized and/or to increase or
reduce the reserve against the existing straight-line rent receivable.

Federal Income Tax

We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"),
for every year beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999 and made no provision for federal income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of the assets of Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate
Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT") in April 2007. As a result of the Sunrise REIT and subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities that
are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.

We
account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have
been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities



using
enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and
that causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any
increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, is
included in the tax provision when such changes occur.

Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Standards

In December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-10,

Derecognition of in
Substance Real Estate—a Scope Clarification

("ASU 2011-10"), which clarifies certain guidance for situations in which a reporting entity ceases to have
a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary that is, in substance, real estate as a result of default on the subsidiary's nonrecourse debt. In such situations, ASU 2011-10 requires a
company to apply the provisions of ASC Topic 360,

Property, Plant, and Equipment,

in determining whether it should derecognize the real estate assets.
The provisions of ASU 2011-10 will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2013, and are not expected to have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In
September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08,

Testing Goodwill for Impairment

("ASU 2011-08"), which
permits companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine the likelihood that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before performing the current
two-step analysis. If a company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the company must proceed with the
two-step approach to evaluating impairment. We adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08 in 2011, and the adoption did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, on
January 1, 2011, we adopted ASU 2010-28,

When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying
Amounts

("ASU 2010-28"). ASU 2010-28 states that if a reporting unit has a carrying amount that is equal to or less than zero and there are qualitative
factors that indicate it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The adoption of ASU 2010-28 also did not
impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In
June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,

Presentation of Comprehensive Income

("ASU 2011-05"), which
amends current guidance found in ASC Topic 220,

Comprehensive Income

. ASU 2011-05 requires entities to present comprehensive income
in either: (i) one continuous financial statement or (ii) two separate but consecutive statements that display net income and the components of other comprehensive income. Totals and
individual components of both net income and other comprehensive income must be included in either presentation. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12,

Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation
of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in

Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 ("ASU 2011-12"). The provisions of ASU 2011-12 indefinitely defer portions of ASU 2011-05 related to the
presentation of reclassification of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The provisions of both ASU 2011-05 and ASU 2011-12 will be effective for us beginning
with the first quarter of 2012.

On
January 1, 2011, we adopted ASU 2010-29,

Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations

("ASU 2010-29"), affecting public entities that
enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis. ASU 2010-29 specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, it should
disclose revenues and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the year had occurred at the beginning of the prior annual reporting period when
preparing the pro forma financial information



for
both the current and prior reporting periods. The guidance, which is effective for business combinations consummated in reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010, also requires
that pro forma disclosures be accompanied by a narrative description regarding the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business
combination(s) included in reported pro forma revenues and earnings. We have presented supplementary pro forma information related to our acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets and
working capital of ASLG in May 2011 and our acquisition of NHP in July 2011 in "Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

In
January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06,

Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements

("ASU
2010-06"), which expands required disclosures related to an entity's fair value measurements. Certain provisions of ASU 2010-06 were effective for interim and annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2009, and we adopted those provisions as of January 1, 2010. The remaining provisions, which were effective for interim and annual reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2010, require additional disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in an entity's reconciliation of recurring level three investments. We
adopted those provisions of ASU 2010-06 as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Results of Operations

As of December 31, 2011, we operated through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties,
senior living operations and MOB operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and
leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases that require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior
living operations segment primarily consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage independent third parties, such as Atria and
Sunrise, to manage the operations. Our MOB operations segment primarily consists of acquiring, owning, developing, leasing and managing MOBs. Information provided for "all other" includes revenues
such as income from loans and investments and other miscellaneous income and various corporate-level expenses not directly
attributable to our three reportable business segments. Assets included in all other consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, loans receivable
and miscellaneous accounts receivable.



Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010

The table below shows our results of operations for each year and the effect on our income of changes in those results from year to
year.

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease) to

Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI:

Triple-Net Leased Properties

$

654,794

$

461,709

$

193,085

41.8

%

Senior Living Operations

279,331

154,470

124,861

80.8

MOB Operations

116,591

50,205

66,386

>100

All Other

34,415

16,412

18,003

>100

Total segment NOI

1,085,131

682,796

402,335

58.9

Interest and other income

1,217



>100

Interest expense

(236,807

)

(175,631

)

(61,176

)

(34.8

)

Depreciation and amortization

(456,590

)

(203,762

)

(252,828

)

(>100

)

General, administrative and professional fees

(74,537

)

(49,830

)

(24,707

)

(49.6

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

(27,604

)

(9,791

)

(17,813

)

(>100

)

Litigation proceeds, net

202,259

—

202,259

nm

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

(153,923

)

(19,243

)

(134,680

)

(>100

)

Other

(8,653

)

(272

)

(8,381

)

(>100

)

Income before loss from unconsolidated entities, income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

330,493

224,751

105,742

47.0

Loss from unconsolidated entities

(52

)

(664

)


92.2

Income tax benefit (expense)

31,137

(5,201

)

36,338

(>100

)

Income from continuing operations

361,578

218,886

142,692

65.2

Discontinued operations

1,683

30,843

(29,160

)

(94.5

)

Net income

363,261

249,729

113,532

45.5

Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax

(1,232

)

3,562

4,794

(>100

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

364,493

$

246,167

$

118,326

48.1

%

nm—not

meaningful

Segment NOI—Triple-Net Leased Properties

NOI for our triple-net leased properties reportable business segment consists of rental income earned from our
triple-net assets and other services revenue. We incur no direct operating expenses for this segment.

Triple-net
leased properties segment NOI increased primarily due to $179.2 million of rental income from the properties we acquired in connection with the NHP
acquisition, $6.0 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalators in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2011, other services revenue directly
attributable to the NHP acquisition ($2.2 million) and various rent increases at our other existing triple-net leased properties.



In our triple-net leased properties segment, revenues consist of fixed rental amounts (subject to annual escalations) received directly from our
tenants in accordance with the applicable lease terms and generally do not depend on the operating performance of our properties. Accordingly, occupancy information is relevant to the profitability of
our tenants' operations but does not directly impact our revenues or financial results. The following table sets forth average occupancy rates related to the triple-net leased properties
we owned at December 31, 2011 for the third quarter of 2011, which is the most recent information available to us from our tenants.

Number of

Properties at

December 31, 2011

Average Occupancy

For the Three Months

Ended September 30,


Seniors Housing Communities


86.0

%

Skilled Nursing Facilities


83.6

%

Hospitals


56.3

%

Segment NOI—Senior Living Operations

The following table summarizes our senior living operations reportable business segment NOI:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease)

to Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI—Senior Living Operations:

Total revenues

$

873,308

$

446,301

$

427,007

95.7

%

Less:

Property-level operating expenses

(593,977

)

(291,831

)

(302,146

)

>100

Segment NOI

$

279,331

$

154,470

$

124,861

80.8

%

In
our senior living operations segment, revenues consist of resident fees and services, which include all amounts earned from residents at our seniors housing communities, such as
rental fees related to resident leases, extended health care fees and other ancillary service income. Our senior living operations segment revenues increased primarily due to the properties we
acquired in connection with the ASLG acquisition ($403.2 million) and an increase in average daily rates. The following table sets
forth average resident occupancy rates related to our senior living operating properties during 2011 and 2010:

Number of

Properties at

December 31,

Average

Occupancy

For the Year

Ended

December 31,



2011(1)


Stabilized Communities



89.2

%

89.1

%

Lease-Up Communities



78.7

%

84.3

%

Total



88.6

%

88.9

%

Same-Store Stabilized Communities



90.0

%

89.2

%

(1)

Occupancy
related to the seniors housing communities acquired in connection with the ASLG acquisition reflects activity from May 12, 2011, the date
of the acquisition, through December 31, 2011.



Property-level
operating expenses related to the segment include labor, food, utility, marketing, management and other costs of operating the properties. Property-level operating
expenses increased in 2011 over 2010 primarily due to the properties we acquired in connection with the ASLG acquisition ($281.1 million) and the receipt of a $5 million cash payment
from Sunrise in 2010 for expense overages.

Segment NOI—MOB Operations

The following table summarizes our MOB operations reportable business segment NOI:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease)

to Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI—MOB Operations:

Rental income

$

167,003

$

69,747

$

97,256

>100

%

Medical office building services revenue

34,254

14,098

20,156

>100

Total revenues

201,257

83,845

117,412

>100

Less:

Property-level operating expenses

(57,584

)

(24,122

)

(33,462

)

(>100

)

Medical office building services costs

(27,082

)

(9,518

)

(17,564

)

(>100

)

Segment NOI

$

116,591

$

50,205

$

66,386

>100

%

nm—not

meaningful

The
increases in MOB operations segment revenues and property-level operating expenses are attributed primarily to the MOBs we acquired in connection with the NHP acquisition
($68.6 million) and a full of year of activity related to the MOBs we acquired in 2010 in connection with the Lillibridge acquisition. The following table sets forth occupancy rates related to
our MOB operations segment at December 31, 2011 and 2010:

Number of

Properties at

December 31,

Occupancy at

December 31,





Stabilized MOBs



91.9

%

94.8

%

Non-Stabilized MOBs



73.3

%

73.9

%

Total



89.5

%

91.5

%

Same-Store Stabilized MOBs



94.0

%

94.7

%

Medical
office building services revenue and costs, which are a direct result of the Lillibridge businesses that we acquired in July 2010, both increased due primarily due to a full year
of activity in 2011 and increased construction activity during the second half of 2011 compared to 2010.

Segment NOI—All Other

All other NOI consists solely of income from loans and investments. Income from loans and investments increased in 2011 over the prior
year primarily due to the loans receivable we acquired in connection with the NHP acquisition, gains from the sale of marketable debt securities and additional investments we made in loans receivable
during 2010 and 2011, partially offset by decreased interest income related to loans receivable repayments we received during 2011.



Interest Expense

The $62.1 million increase in total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations of
$5.3 million and $4.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is attributed primarily to a $117.6 million increase in interest due to higher
loan balances and $7.7 million of interest related to the capital leases we assumed in our 2011 acquisitions, partially offset by a $65.1 million decrease in interest due to lower
effective interest rates, including the amortization of any fair value adjustments. Our effective interest rate, excluding activity related to our capital leases, was 4.9% for 2011, compared to 6.4%
for 2010. A decrease in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate had an unfavorable impact on interest expense of $0.2 million for 2011, versus 2010.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to the NHP and ASLG acquisitions and other properties we acquired in
2011.

General, Administrative and Professional Fees

General, administrative and professional fees increased in 2011 primarily due to our organizational growth.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2011 resulted from our early repayment in February 2011 of $307.2 million principal amount
of existing mortgage debt, our redemption in July 2011 of $200.0 million principal amount of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 and our termination in October 2011 of our previous
unsecured revolving credit facilities. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2010 resulted from our redemption in June 2010 of all $142.7 million principal amount outstanding of our


/


% senior notes due 2015, our redemption in October 2010 of all $71.7 million principal amount outstanding of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2014 and various
mortgage debt repayments in December 2010.

Litigation Proceeds, Net

Litigation proceeds, net in 2011 reflects our receipt of $102.8 million in payment of the compensatory damages award from HCP
arising out of our 2007 Sunrise REIT acquisition, plus certain costs and interest, and the receipt of an additional $125 million from HCP in final settlement of our outstanding lawsuit against
HCP, net of certain fees and expenses, the contingent fee for our outside legal counsel and donations to the Ventas Charitable Foundation. No similar events occurred during 2010.

Merger-Related Expenses and Deal Costs

Merger-related expenses and deal costs in both years consisted of expenses relating to our favorable $101.6 million compensatory
damages judgment against HCP and subsequent cross-appeals, transition and integration expenses related to consummated transactions and deal costs required by GAAP to be expensed rather than
capitalized into the asset value. The transition
and integration expenses and deal costs reflect certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Lillibridge, ASLG and NHP acquisitions.



Other

Other consists primarily of the fair value adjustment on interest rate swaps we acquired in connection with the ASLG and NHP
acquisitions, partially offset by other expenses.

Loss from Unconsolidated Entities

Loss from unconsolidated entities for 2011 and 2010 relates to the noncontrolling interests in joint ventures we acquired in connection
with the NHP and Lillibridge acquisitions. At December 31, 2011, these noncontrolling interests ranged between 5% and 25% and related to 58 MOBs, 20 seniors housing communities and fourteen
skilled nursing facilities.

Income Tax Benefit/Expense

Income tax benefit for 2011 was due primarily to the reversal of certain income tax contingency reserves, including interest, related
to our 2007 U.S. federal income tax returns and the deferred tax liabilities established in connection with the ASLG acquisition. Income tax expense for 2010 represents amounts related to our taxable
REIT subsidiaries as a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued operations for 2011 includes activity related to nineteen properties, four of which were sold during 2011 with no
resulting gain or loss and fifteen of which were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. Discontinued operations for 2010 includes activity related to nine of the nineteen
properties mentioned above that we owned during 2010, a $17.3 million gain on the sale of seven assets sold during 2010, lease termination fees of $0.7 million related to these assets
and a $7.9 million previously deferred gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 upon repayment of a note to the buyer.

Net Loss/Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for 2011 represents our partners' joint venture interests in 29 MOBs and seniors
housing communities, 23 of which we acquired in connection with the NHP acquisition. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax for 2010 represents Sunrise's share of net income
from its previous ownership interests in 60 of our seniors housing communities, which we acquired during 2010, and our partners' joint venture interests in six MOBs.



Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009

The table below shows our results of operations for each year and the effect on our income of changes in those results from year to
year.

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease)

to Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI:

Triple-Net Leased Properties

$

461,709

$

452,536

$

9,173

2.0

%

Senior Living Operations

154,470

131,013

23,457

17.9

MOB Operations

50,205

23,154

27,051

>100

All Other

16,412

13,107

3,305

25.2

Total segment NOI

682,796

619,810

62,986

10.2

Interest and other income



(358

)

(42.5

)

Interest expense

(175,631

)

(173,810

)

(1,821

)

(1.0

)

Depreciation and amortization

(203,762

)

(197,298

)

(6,464

)

(3.3

)

General, administrative and professional fees

(49,830

)

(38,830

)

(11,000

)

(28.3

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

(9,791

)

(6,080

)

(3,711

)

(61.0

)

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

(19,243

)

(13,015

)

(6,228

)

(47.9

)

Other

(272

)

(50

)

(222

)

(>100

)

Income before loss from unconsolidated entities, income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

224,751

191,569

33,182

17.3

Loss from unconsolidated entities

(664

)

—

(664

)

nm

Income tax (expense) benefit

(5,201

)

1,719

(6,920

)

(>100

)

Income from continuing operations

218,886

193,288

25,598

13.2

Discontinued operations

30,843

76,072

(45,229

)

(59.5

)

Net income

249,729

269,360

(19,631

)

(7.3

)

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax

3,562

2,865

(697

)

(24.3

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

246,167

$

266,495

$

(20,328

)

(7.6

)%

nm—not

meaningful

Segment NOI—Triple-Net Leased Properties

Triple-net leased properties reportable business segment NOI increased primarily due to $6.2 million of additional
rent resulting from the annual escalators in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2010, $0.8 million of rental income from a seniors housing community we
acquired in 2010 and various rent increases at our other existing properties.



Segment NOI—Senior Living Operations

The following table summarizes our senior living operations reportable business segment NOI:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase

(Decrease)

to Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI—Senior Living Operations:

Total revenues

$

446,301

$

421,058

$

25,243

6.0

%

Less:

Property-level operating expenses

(291,831

)

(290,045

)

(1,786

)

(0.6

)

Segment NOI

$

154,470

$

131,013

$

23,457

17.9

%

Our
senior living operations segment revenues increased primarily due to a decrease in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate, which had a favorable impact of $8.2 million in
2010, $3.3 million of resident fees and services from three seniors housing communities added to our portfolio in 2010 and
late 2009, higher occupancy rates and an increase in average daily rates. The following table sets forth average resident occupancy rates related to our senior living operating properties during 2010
and 2009:

Number of

Properties at

December 31,

Average

Occupancy For

the Year

Ended

December 31,





Stabilized Communities



89.1

%

88.3

%

Lease-Up Communities



84.3

%

70.4

%

Total



88.9

%

87.7

%

Same-Store Stabilized Communities



89.1

%

88.3

%

Property-level
operating expenses increased primarily as a result of a decrease in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate, which had an unfavorable impact of $5.4 million in
2010, $3.1 million of additional expenses from the three seniors housing communities we acquired in 2010 and late 2009 and increased expenses related to occupancy and revenue growth, partially
offset by the receipt of a $5 million cash payment from Sunrise in 2010 for expense overages and a decrease of $4.2 million in management fees.



Segment NOI—MOB Operations

The following table summarizes our MOB operations reportable business segment NOI:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease)

to Income



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Segment NOI—MOB Operations:

Rental income

$

69,747

$

35,922

$

33,825

94.2

%

Medical office building services revenue

14,098

—

14,098

nm

Total revenues

83,845

35,922

47,923

>100

Less:

Property-level operating expenses

(24,122

)

(12,768

)

(11,354

)

(88.9

)

Medical office building services costs

(9,518

)

—

(9,518

)

nm

Segment NOI

$

50,205

$

23,154

$

27,051

>100

%

nm—not

meaningful

The
increases in MOB operations segment revenues and property-level operating expenses are attributed primarily to the MOBs we acquired during 2010 and 2009, including the Lillibridge
portfolio. The following table sets forth occupancy rates related to our MOB operations segment at December 31, 2010 and 2009:

Number of

Properties at

December 31,

Occupancy at

December 31,





Stabilized MOBs



94.8

%

94.9

%

Non-Stabilized MOBs



73.9

%

73.9

%

Total



91.5

%

89.6

%

Same-Store Stabilized MOBs



93.2

%

93.9

%

Segment NOI—All Other

All other NOI consists solely of income from loans and investments. Income from loans and investments increased in 2010 over the prior
year primarily due to interest earned on the investments we made during 2010 and 2009.

Interest Expense

The $0.2 million increase in total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations of
$4.3 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is due primarily to increased deferred financing fee amortization, increased land lease
payments and a $0.4 million increase in interest from higher effective interest rates, partially offset by a $2.7 million reduction in interest from lower loan balances. Interest expense
includes $9.0 million and $7.4 million of amortized deferred financing fees for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our effective interest rate was 6.4% for 2010, compared to 6.3% for 2009. A
decrease in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate had an unfavorable impact on interest expense of $0.7 million in 2010, compared to 2009.



Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily as a result of the properties we acquired or developed during 2010 and 2009,
including the Lillibridge portfolio.

General, Administrative and Professional Fees

General, administrative and professional fees increased $11.0 million in 2010 over 2009 due primarily to our organizational
growth as a result of the Lillibridge acquisition.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2010 relates primarily to our redemption in June 2010 of all $142.7 million principal
amount then outstanding of our 7


/


% senior notes due 2015, our redemption in October 2010 of all $71.7 million principal amount then outstanding of our 6


/


%
senior notes due 2014 and various mortgage repayments in December 2010. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009 primarily relates to the purchase, in open market transactions and/or through cash
tender offers, of $361.6 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding senior notes.

Merger-Related Expenses and Deal Costs

Merger-related expenses and deal costs consisted of expenses relating to our favorable $101.6 million jury verdict against HCP
and subsequent cross-appeals arising out of our Sunrise REIT acquisition, integration costs related to consummated transactions and deal costs required by GAAP to be expensed rather than capitalized
into the asset value, which include certain fees and expenses we incurred in connection with the Lillibridge and ASLG acquisitions.

Other

Other in 2010 resulted primarily from the net change in our forward contract valuation compared to the revaluation of intercompany
loans, partially offset by the Canadian exchange rate differential between the trade date and settlement date on a cash payment.

Loss from Unconsolidated Entities

Loss from unconsolidated entities in 2010 relates to the noncontrolling interests in joint ventures we acquired as part of the
Lillibridge acquisition. At December 31, 2010, we had ownership interests ranging between 5% and 20% in 58 MOBs. See
"Note 4

—

Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Income Tax Expense/Benefit

Income tax expense/benefit before noncontrolling interest in 2010 and 2009 represents amounts related to our taxable REIT subsidiaries
as a result of the Sunrise REIT and Lillibridge acquisitions. The change from an income tax benefit in 2009 to a non-cash income tax expense in 2010 is primarily due to increased NOI at
our Sunrise-managed seniors housing communities. See "Note 13

—

Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued operations for 2010 includes a $17.3 million gain on the sale of seven assets sold during 2010, lease termination
fees of $0.7 million related to these assets and a $7.9 million previously deferred gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 upon repayment of a note to the buyer.



Discontinued
operations for 2009 includes a $66.8 million net gain on the sale of fourteen assets sold during 2009 and a lease termination fee of $2.3 million related to these assets.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax primarily represents Sunrise's share of net income from its previous
ownership percentage in 60 of our seniors housing communities during 2009 and 58 of our seniors housing communities during most of 2010.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider certain
non-GAAP financial measures to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. A non-GAAP financial measure is generally defined as one that purports to measure
historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows, but excludes or includes amounts that would not be so adjusted in the most comparable GAAP measure. Set forth below are
descriptions of the non-GAAP financial measures we consider most relevant to our business and useful to investors, as well as reconciliations of these measures to our most directly
comparable GAAP financial measures.

The
non-GAAP financial measures we present herein are not necessarily identical to those presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate
companies use the same definitions. These measures should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of our financial performance or as
alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of our liquidity, nor are these measures necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all
of our needs. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, these measures should be examined in conjunction with net income as
presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over
time. Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies
that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, we consider Funds From Operations ("FFO") and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating
performance of an equity REIT. Moreover, we believe that normalized FFO provides useful information because it allows investors, analysts and our
management to compare our operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused
by unanticipated items and other events such as transactions and litigation. We use the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net
income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate, plus real estate depreciation and
amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect FFO on the same
basis. We define normalized FFO as FFO excluding the following income and expense items (which may be recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of real property assets;
(b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses and recoveries relating to
our lawsuit against HCP and the issuance of preferred stock or bridge loan fees; (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off
of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts, make-whole payments,



penalties
or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of our debt; (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses; (e) the impact of future
unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) and capital transactions; (f) the financial impact of contingent consideration; (g) charitable
donations made to the Ventas Charitable Foundation; and (h) gains and losses for non-operational foreign currency hedge agreements and changes in the fair value of financial
instruments.

Our
FFO and normalized FFO for the five years ended December 31, 2011 are summarized in the following table. Our FFO for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased over the
prior year primarily due to the NHP and ASLG acquisitions, higher NOI from our senior living operations and MOB operations reportable business segments, net litigation proceeds and income tax benefit,
partially offset by increased merger-related expenses and deal costs, general, administrative and professional fees and interest expense due to our enterprise growth.

For the Year Ended December 31,






(In thousands)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

364,493

$

246,167

$

266,495

$

222,603

$

273,681

Adjustments:

Real estate depreciation and amortization

454,163

202,128

196,608

228,778

224,028

Real estate depreciation related to noncontrolling interest

(3,471

)

(6,217

)

(6,349

)

(8,484

)

(5,982

)

Real estate depreciation related to unconsolidated entities

6,552

2,367

—

—

—

Discontinued operations:

Gain on sale of real estate assets

—

(25,241

)

(67,305

)

(39,026

)

(129,478

)

Depreciation on real estate assets

3,114

2,302

3,960

8,486

11,969

FFO

824,851

421,506

393,409

412,357

374,218

Adjustments:

Litigation proceeds, net

(202,259

)

—

—

—

—

Change in fair value of financial instruments

2,959

—

—

—

—

Reversal of contingent liability

—

—

—

(23,328

)

—

Provision for loan losses

—

—

—

5,994

—

Income tax (benefit) expense

(31,137

)

2,930

(3,459

)

(17,616

)

(29,095

)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

27,604

9,791

6,080

(2,398

)

(88

)

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

153,923

19,243

13,015

4,460

2,979

Amortization of other intangibles

1,022


—

—

—

Net gain on sale of marketable equity securities

—

—

—

—

(864

)

Gain on foreign currency hedge

—

—

—

—

(24,314

)

Preferred stock issuance costs

—

—

—

—

1,750

Bridge loan fee

—

—

—

—

2,550

Normalized FFO

$

776,963

$

453,981

$

409,045

$

379,469

$

327,136

Adjusted EBITDA

We consider Adjusted EBITDA an important supplemental measure to net income because it provides additional information with which to
evaluate the performance of our operations and serves as



another
indication of our ability to service debt. We define Adjusted EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (including non-cash stock-based compensation
expense), excluding loss on extinguishment of debt, net litigation proceeds, merger-related expenses and deal costs, gains or losses on sales of real property assets and changes in the fair value of
financial instruments (including amounts in discontinued operations). The following is
a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:

For the Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net income

$

363,261

$

249,729

$

269,360

Adjustments:

Interest

242,057

179,918

179,736

Loss on extinguishment of debt

27,604

9,791

6,080

Taxes (including amounts in general, administrative and professional fees)

(29,136

)

6,280

(519

)

Depreciation and amortization

459,704

206,064

201,258

Non-cash stock-based compensation expense

19,346

14,078

11,882

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

153,923

19,243

13,015

Gain on sale of real estate assets

—

(25,241

)

(67,305

)

Litigation proceeds, net

(202,259

)

—

—

Changes in fair value of financial instruments

2,959

—

—

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,037,459

$

659,862

$

613,507

NOI

We also consider NOI an important supplemental measure to net income because it allows investors, analysts and our management to
measure unlevered property-level operating results and to compare our operating results to the operating results of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis. We define NOI
as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs (including amounts in discontinued operations). The following is a
reconciliation of NOI to total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:

For the Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Total revenues

$

1,764,991

$

1,008,751

$

923,465

Less:

Interest and other income

1,217



Property-level operating expenses

651,561

315,953

302,813

Medical office building services costs

27,082

9,518

—

NOI (excluding amounts in discontinued operations)

1,085,131

682,796

619,810

Discontinued operations

10,047

11,466

16,230

NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations)

$

1,095,178

$

694,262

$

636,040



Asset/Liability Management

Asset/liability management is a key element of our overall risk management program. The objective of asset/liability management is to
support the achievement of our business strategy, while maintaining appropriate risk levels. Our asset/liability management process focuses on a variety of risks, including without limitation market
risk (primarily interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk) and credit risk. Effective management of these risks is an important determinant of the absolute levels and variability of our
FFO and net worth. The following discussion addresses our integrated management of assets and liabilities, including the use of derivative financial instruments.

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates on borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and
$500 million term loan facility, floating rate
mortgage debt and certain mortgage loans receivable. These market risks result primarily from changes in LIBOR or prime rates. We continuously monitor our level of floating rate debt with respect to
total debt and other factors, including our assessment of the current and future economic environment.



The
table below sets forth certain information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums, discounts and capital lease obligations.

As of December 31,




(Dollars in thousands)

Balance:

Fixed rate:

Senior notes and other

$

2,460,026

$

1,537,433

$

1,153,131

Mortgage loans and other(1)

2,357,268

1,234,263

1,324,094

Variable rate:

Unsecured revolving credit facilities

455,578

40,000

8,466

Unsecured term loan facility

501,875

—

—

Mortgage loans and other(1)

405,696

115,258

215,970

Total

$

6,180,443

$

2,926,954

$

2,701,661

Percent of total debt:

Fixed rate:

Senior notes and other

39.8

%

52.5

%

42.7

%

Mortgage loans and other(1)

38.1

%

42.2

%

49.0

%

Variable rate:

Unsecured revolving credit facilities

7.4

%

1.4

%

0.3

%

Unsecured term loan facility

8.1

%

0.0

%

0.0

%

Mortgage loans and other(1)

6.6

%

3.9

%

8.0

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Weighted average interest rate at end of period:

Fixed rate:

Senior notes and other

5.3

%

5.1

%

6.3

%

Mortgage loans and other(1)

6.1

%

6.2

%

6.3

%

Variable rate:

Unsecured revolving credit facilities

1.4

%

3.1

%

3.1

%

Unsecured term loan facility

1.8

%

N/A

N/A

Mortgage loans and other(1)

2.0

%

1.5

%

2.0

%

Total

4.8

%

5.4

%

6.0

%

(1)

The
amounts presented above exclude debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. The total mortgage debt
for these properties as of December 31, 2011 was $14.6 million.

The
variable rate debt in the table above reflects, in part, the effect of $167.6 million notional amount of interest rate swaps with a maturity of February 1, 2013 that
effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. The increase in our outstanding variable rate debt from December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to debt assumed in connection with
the ASLG and NHP acquisitions, borrowings under our variable rate term loan facility and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of certain leases with one of
our tenants, if interest rates increase on certain variable rate debt that we have totaling $80.0 million as of December 31, 2011, our tenant is required to pay us additional rent (on a
dollar-for-dollar basis) in an amount equal to the increase in interest expense resulting from the increased interest rates. Therefore, the increase in interest expense related
to this debt is equally offset by an increase in additional rent due to us from the tenant. Assuming a 100 basis point increase in the weighted average interest rate related to our variable rate debt
(excluding debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale at December 31, 2011), and



assuming
no change in our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011, interest expense for 2012 would increase, and our net income would decrease, by approximately
$13.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted common share. The fair value of our fixed and variable rate debt is based on current interest rates at which we could obtain similar borrowings.

For
fixed rate debt, interest rate fluctuations generally affect the fair value, but do not impact our earnings or cash flows. Therefore, interest rate risk does not have a significant
impact on our fixed rate debt obligations until such obligations mature or we elect to prepay and refinance them. If interest rates have risen at the time our fixed rate debt matures or is refinanced,
our future earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional borrowing costs. Conversely, lower interest rates at the time of maturity or refinancing may lower our overall borrowing
costs.

To
highlight the sensitivity of our fixed rate debt to changes in interest rates, the following summary shows the effects of a hypothetical instantaneous change of 100 basis points
("BPS") in interest rates as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Gross book value

$

4,984,743

$

2,771,695

Fair value(1)

5,439,222

2,900,143

Fair value reflecting change in interest rates:(1)

-100 BPS

5,401,585

3,008,630

+100 BPS

4,963,413

2,794,140

(1)

The
change in fair value of our fixed rate debt was due primarily to the overall change in interest rates and the assumption of debt in connection with the
ASLG and NHP acquisitions.

We
earn interest from investments in marketable debt securities on a fixed rate basis. We record these investments as available-for-sale at fair value, with
unrealized gains and losses recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. Interest rate fluctuations and market conditions will cause the fair value of these investments to change. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate fair value of our marketable debt securities held at December 31, 2011, which had an aggregate original cost of $37.8 million, was
$43.3 million and $43.4 million, respectively. During 2011, we sold marketable debt securities and received proceeds of approximately $23.1 million.

As
of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our secured and unsecured loans receivable, based on our estimates of currently prevailing interest rates for comparable loans, was
$281.5 million. See "Note 6—Loans Receivable" and "Note 11—Fair Values of Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We
are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the
value of the Canadian dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our twelve seniors housing communities in Canada. Based solely on our 2011 results, if the Canadian dollar exchange rate were
to increase or decrease by $0.10, our net income from these communities would decrease or increase, as applicable, by $0.1 million per year. If we increase our international presence through
investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds under our
unsecured revolving credit facility in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives (including additional borrowings in local currencies) to
protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot provide any assurance that any such fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity, on our ability to



service
our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect").

We
may engage in hedging strategies to manage our exposure to market risks in the future, depending on an analysis of the interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate environments
and the costs and risks of such strategies. However, we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Concentration and Credit Risk

We use concentration ratios to understand and evaluate the potential risks of economic downturns or other adverse events affecting our
various asset types, geographic locations, business models, or tenants, operators and managers. We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of investment mix, which measures the portion of our
investments that consists of a certain asset type or that is operated or managed by a particular tenant, operator or manager, and operations mix, which measures the portion of our operating results
that is attributed to a certain tenant or operator, geographic location or business model. The following tables reflect our concentration risk as of the dates and for the periods presented:

As of

December 31,



Investment mix by asset type(1):

Seniors housing communities

66.7

%

70.2

%

Skilled nursing facilities

16.4

%

11.7

%

MOBs

13.1

%

10.8

%

Hospitals

2.6

%

5.0

%

Loans receivable, net

1.1

%

2.2

%

Other properties

0.1

%

0.1

%

Investment mix by tenant, operator and manager(1):

Atria

19.0

%

N/A

Sunrise

14.4

%

37.9

%

Brookdale Senior Living

13.0

%

19.7

%

Kindred

5.0

%

13.1

%

All other

48.6

%

29.3

%

(1)

Ratios
are based on the gross book value of real estate investments as of each reporting date (including assets held for sale as of December 31,
2011).



For the Year Ended

December 31,




Operations mix by tenant and operator and business model:

Revenues(1):

Senior living operations(2)

49.2

%

43.7

%

44.7

%

Kindred

14.3

%

24.2

%

26.2

%

Brookdale Senior Living

8.2

%

11.9

%

12.9

%

All others

28.3

%

20.2

%

16.2

%

Adjusted EBITDA:

Senior living operations(2)

26.0

%

22.7

%

20.4

%

Kindred

21.9

%

34.6

%

39.2

%

Brookdale Senior Living

13.2

%

17.0

%

18.6

%

All others

38.9

%

25.7

%

21.8

%

NOI:

Senior living operations(2)

24.3

%

22.2

%

20.6

%

Kindred

23.2

%

35.6

%

38.5

%

Brookdale Senior Living

13.4

%

17.3

%

19.1

%

All others

39.1

%

24.9

%

21.8

%

Operations mix by geographic location(3):

California

13.7

%

12.0

%

12.7

%

New York

8.7

%

3.5

%

3.7

%

Illinois

6.4

%

10.2

%

10.3

%

Massachusetts

5.0

%

5.0

%

5.3

%

Texas

5.0

%

2.7

%

2.6

%

All others

61.2

%

66.6

%

65.4

%

(1)

Total
revenues include medical office building and other services revenue, revenue from loans and investments and interest and other income. Revenues from
properties sold or held for sale as of the reporting date are included in this presentation.

(2)

Amounts
attributable to senior living operations managed by Atria for the year ended December 31, 2011 relate to the period from May 12, 2011,
the date of the ASLG acquisition, through December 31, 2011.

(3)

Ratios
are based on total revenues for each period presented. Total revenues includes medical office building and other services revenue, revenue from loans
and investments and interest and other income. Revenues from properties sold as of the reporting date are excluded from this presentation.

See
"Non-GAAP Financial Measures" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional disclosure and reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA and NOI to our
net income or total revenues, as applicable, as computed in accordance with GAAP.

We
derive a significant portion of our revenue by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual
escalators, subject to certain limitations. Some of our triple-net lease escalators are tied to the Consumer Price Index ("CPI"), with caps, floors or collars. We also earn revenue from
individual residents at our seniors housing communities managed by independent third parties, such as Atria and Sunrise, and tenants in our MOBs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 29.4% of
our Adjusted EBITDA (including amounts in discontinued operations)



was
derived from our senior living operations and MOB operations, where rental rates may fluctuate upon lease rollovers and renewals due to economic or market conditions.

Our
reliance on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income creates credit risk. Our financial condition and results of operations
could be weakened and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders could be limited if either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living was unable or unwilling to
satisfy its obligations to us. In addition, any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its
business reputation or its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from
Our Business—We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior
Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K and "Note 3

—

Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We
regularly monitor the credit risk under our lease and other agreements with our tenants and borrowers by, among other things, (i) reviewing and analyzing information regarding
the healthcare industry generally, publicly available information regarding tenants, and required information provided by the tenants and borrowers under our lease and other agreements, and
(ii) having periodic discussions and visits with tenants, borrowers and their representatives.

Because
Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our
triple-net tenants. However, we rely on their personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to
manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Atria and Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties in compliance with the terms of our
management agreements. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, Atria's or Sunrise's inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under those
agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties and to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition,
significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior management or any adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk
Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Although Atria and
Sunrise are managers, not tenants, of our properties, adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I,
Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Triple-Net Lease Expirations

We are exposed to the risk that, as our triple-net leases expire, our tenants may elect not to renew those leases and, in
that event, we may be unable to reposition the applicable properties on a timely basis or on the same or better economic terms, if at all. The following table summarizes our triple-net
lease expirations currently scheduled to occur over the next ten years (excluding leases related to assets held for sale as of December 31, 2011):

Number of

Properties

2011 Annual

Rental Income

% of 2011 Total

Triple-Net Rental

Income

(Dollars in thousands)



$

1,738

0.3

%



103,682

15.9



13,840

2.1



168,231

25.8



11,233

1.7



11,920

1.8

2018(1)


25,842

4.0



114,290

17.5



56,586

8.7



91,558

14.0

(1)

Includes
sixteen assets whose current lease term expires in 2013, but for which Kindred has provided renewal notices. In certain cases, Kindred may have the
right to revoke its renewal of eight of those assets currently representing approximately $9 million of annual base rent. See "Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk" of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The
non-renewal of some or all of our triple-net leases could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our
Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays,
limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item IA of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of $45.8 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, operating cash and
cash related to our senior living operations and MOB operations reportable business segments that is deposited and held in property-level accounts. Funds maintained in the property-level accounts are
used primarily for the payment of property-level expenses, debt service payments and certain capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2011, we also had escrow deposits and restricted cash of
$76.6 million and $1.5 billion of unused borrowing capacity available under our unsecured revolving credit facility.

During
2011, our principal sources of liquidity were proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities, cash flows from operations, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit
facilities and unsecured term loans, proceeds from our loans receivable and marketable securities portfolios, proceeds related to our litigation with HCP and cash on hand. We funded the ASLG
acquisition, including deal costs, through the issuance of 24.96 million shares of our common stock, cash on hand, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and assumed
mortgage financing. We funded the NHP acquisition, including deal costs, through the issuance of 99.8 million shares of our common stock, cash on hand, borrowings under our unsecured revolving
credit facilities and the assumption of debt.



During
the next twelve months, our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet our debt service requirements; (iii) repay
maturing mortgage and other debt, including our 9% senior notes due 2012 and 8


/


% senior notes due 2012; (iv) fund capital expenditures for our senior living operations and our
MOB operations reportable segments; (v) fund acquisitions, including our pending Cogdell transaction, investments and commitments, including development activities; and (vi) make
distributions to our stockholders and unitholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT. We believe that these liquidity needs generally will be satisfied by cash flows from operations,
cash on hand, debt assumptions and financings, issuances of debt and equity securities, including the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2022 that we issued in
February 2012, proceeds from sales of assets and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan facility. However, if any of these sources of capital is unavailable
to us or is not available at an acceptable cost or if we engage in significant acquisition or investment activity, we may seek or require additional funding from debt assumptions and financings
(including secured financings), dispositions of assets (in whole or in part through joint venture arrangements with third parties) and/or the issuance of secured or unsecured long-term
debt or other securities. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to
meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

We
expect to fund the Cogdell transaction through borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and assumed mortgage financing. Completion of the transaction is subject to the
approval of Cogdell's stockholders, the sale of Cogdell's design-build and development business and certain other customary closing conditions. We expect to complete the transaction in the second
quarter of 2012, although we cannot provide any assurance as to whether or when the closing will occur.

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loans

As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility was $2.0 billion.
Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to a reference rate (the applicable LIBOR for Eurocurrency rate loans and the higher of
(i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the administrative agent's prime rate and (iii) the applicable LIBOR plus 1.0% for base rate loans) plus a spread based on our senior
unsecured long-term debt ratings. At December 31, 2011, the applicable spread was 110 basis points for Eurocurrency rate loans and 10 basis points for base rate loans. We also pay a
facility fee ranging from 15 to 45 basis points per annum (based on our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings) on the aggregate revolving commitments under the unsecured revolving credit
facility. At December 31, 2011, the facility fee was 17.5 basis points. Our unsecured revolving credit facility matures in October 2015, but may be extended for one year at our option, subject
to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Under the terms of the unsecured revolving credit facility, our aggregate borrowing capacity may be increased to up to $2.5 billion at our option,
subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.

The
agreement governing our unsecured revolving credit facility subjects us to various financial and other restrictive covenants. See "Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements"
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We were in compliance with all of these covenants at
December 31, 2011.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had $200.0 million of borrowings outstanding under an unsecured term loan that matures in September 2013. The term loan is
non-amortizing and bears interest at an all-in fixed rate of 4% per annum. We may prepay the term loan at any time on or after September 27, 2012 without penalty or at
any time on or after March 27, 2012 and prior to September 27, 2012 with a make-whole payment.



As
of December 31, 2011, we also had $500.0 million of borrowings outstanding under an unsecured term loan facility with a weighted average maturity of 4.5 years.
Borrowings under the term loan facility bear interest at the applicable LIBOR plus a spread based on our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings (125 basis points at December 31,
2011). The term loan facility is comprised of a three-year tranche and a five-year tranche and contains an accordion feature that permits us to increase our aggregate borrowing capacity thereunder to
up to $900.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Upon entering into the term loan facility, we terminated the commitments under an $800.0 million term loan
previously extended to NHP and assumed by us in connection with the NHP acquisition that was scheduled to mature in June 2012. Borrowings under the NHP term loan bore interest at the applicable LIBOR
plus 150 basis points or the "Alternate Base Rate" plus 0.50%, and the NHP term loan had a 10 basis point per annum facility fee.

Convertible Senior Notes

In November 2011, we repaid in full $230.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 3


/


% convertible senior
notes due 2011 upon maturity. In accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes, we paid the principal amount of the notes and accrued but unpaid interest thereon in cash
and issued an aggregate of 943,714 shares of our common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount.

Senior Notes and Other

As of December 31, 2011, the following series of senior notes issued by our subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and
Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Ventas Issuers"), were outstanding:

•

$82.4 million principal amount of 9% senior notes due 2012;

•

$400.0 million principal amount of 3.125% senior notes due 2015;

•

$200.0 million principal amount of 6


/


% senior notes due 2016;

•

$225.0 million principal amount of 6


/


% senior notes due 2017; and

•

$700.0 million principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021.

In
connection with the NHP acquisition, our subsidiary, Nationwide Health Properties, LLC ("NHP LLC"), assumed $991.6 million aggregate principal amount of
outstanding unsecured senior notes of NHP. In July 2011, we repaid in full, at par, $339.0 million principal amount then outstanding of NHP LLC's 6.50% senior notes due 2011 upon
maturity. As of December 31, 2011, the following series of senior notes of NHP LLC were outstanding:

•

$73.0 million principal amount of 8


/


% senior notes due 2012;

•

$270.0 million principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2013;

•

$234.4 million principal amount of 6% senior notes due 2015;

•

$52.4 million principal amount of 6.90% senior notes due 2037 (subject to earlier repayment at the option of the
holder); and

•

$23.0 million principal amount of 6.59% senior notes due 2038 (subject to earlier repayment at the option of the
holder).

In
February 2012, we issued and sold $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2022, at a public offering price equal to 99.214% of par for total
proceeds of $595.3 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.



Also
in February 2012, we exercised our option to redeem all $200.0 million principal amount outstanding of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 pursuant
to the terms of the indenture governing the notes. We will pay a total of $206.5 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the redemption date and expect to recognize a loss on
extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2012.

In
July 2011, we redeemed $200.0 million principal amount outstanding of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2016, at a redemption price equal to 103.25% of
par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of $206.5 million, plus
accrued and unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $8.7 million during the third quarter of 2011.

In
May 2011, we issued and sold $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021, at a public offering price equal to 99.132% of par, for total proceeds
of $693.9 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.

In
November 2010, we issued and sold $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% senior notes due 2015, at a public offering price equal to 99.528% of par, for total
proceeds of $398.1 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.

In
October 2010, we redeemed all $71.7 million principal amount outstanding of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2014, at a redemption price equal to
102.21% of par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of
$73.3 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $2.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2010.

In
September 2010, the subsidiary guarantees on the Ventas Issuers' then outstanding senior notes (other than the 9% senior notes due 2012) were released pursuant to the terms of the
indentures governing the notes.

In
June 2010, we redeemed all $142.7 million principal amount outstanding of the Ventas Issuers' 7


/


% senior notes due 2015, at a redemption price equal to 103.56%
of par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of $147.8 million, plus
accrued and unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt of $6.4 million during the second quarter of 2010.

In
May 2010, we repaid in full, at par, $1.4 million principal amount then outstanding of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2010 upon maturity.

We
may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase additional amounts of our outstanding senior notes for cash and/or in exchange for equity securities in open market purchases,
privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, prospects for
future access to capital and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.

The
indentures governing our outstanding senior notes subject us to various financial and other restrictive covenants. However, at any time we maintain investment grade ratings by both
Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, the indentures governing the Ventas Issuers' senior notes due 2012, 2016 and 2017 provide that certain of these restrictive
covenants will either be suspended or fall away. See "Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We were in compliance with all of these covenants at December 31, 2011.



Mortgage Loan Obligations

Our share of facility-level mortgage debt outstanding was $2.7 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively, and the consolidated aggregate principal amount was $2.8 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

During
2011, we assumed mortgage debt of $1.6 billion, including $1.2 billion and $442 million, respectively, in connection with the ASLG and NHP acquisitions. See
"Note 4

—

Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
February 2011, we repaid in full mortgage loans outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $307.2 million and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of
$16.5 million in connection with these repayments in the first quarter of 2011.

During
2010, we assumed $79.5 million of mortgage debt in connection with our acquisition of Lillibridge and its related entities. See
"Note 4

—

Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
June 2010, we repaid $49.8 million of mortgage loans on two of our Sunrise-managed properties in which, at that time, we had 80% ownership interests. In connection with our
payment of Sunrise's share ($9.9 million) of those mortgage loans, we acquired Sunrise's 20% noncontrolling interests in the properties.

Dividends

In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our stockholders of at least 90% of our REIT taxable
income (excluding net capital gain). In 2011, our Board of Directors declared and we paid cash dividends aggregating $2.30 per share, which exceeds 100% of our 2011 estimated taxable income after the
use of any net operating loss carryforwards. We also intend to pay dividends greater than 100% of our taxable income, after the use of any net operating loss carryforwards, for 2012. On
February 15, 2012, our Board of Directors declared the first quarter 2012 dividend of $0.62 per share, payable in cash on March 29, 2012 to holders of record on March 9, 2012.

We
expect that our REIT taxable income will be less than our cash flows due to the allowance of depreciation and other non-cash deductions in computing REIT taxable income.
Although we do not anticipate any inability to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash on hand or other liquid assets to meet this requirement or
we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand or other liquid assets to enable us to
satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, or if we desire to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property
or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements or any combination of the foregoing. See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax
Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual
Distribution Requirements" included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Capital Expenditures

The terms of our triple-net leases generally obligate our tenants to maintain and improve our triple-net leased
properties. Accordingly, we do not expect to incur any major capital expenditures in connection with these properties. From time to time, however, we may fund the capital expenditures for our
triple-net leased properties through loans to the tenants or advances, some of which may increase the amount of rent payable with respect to the properties. After the terms of the
triple-net leases expire, or in the event that our tenants are unable or unwilling to meet their obligations under



those
leases, we would expect to fund any capital expenditures for which we may become responsible with cash flows from operations or through additional borrowings.

With
respect to our senior living operations and MOB operations reportable business segments, we expect that capital expenditures will be funded by the cash flows from the properties or
through additional borrowings. To the extent that unanticipated expenditures or significant borrowings are required, our liquidity may be affected adversely. Our ability to borrow additional funds may
be restricted in certain circumstances by the terms of the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness.

As
a result of the NHP acquisition, we assumed certain obligations under agreements to develop seniors housing and MOB properties. The construction of these properties is funded through
capital provided by us and, in some circumstances, other joint venture members. As of December 31, 2011, one seniors housing community and two MOBs were in various stages of development
pursuant to our agreements. We have funded $45.0 million through December 31, 2011 toward these development projects, and our total commitment to these projects is estimated to be
between $90 million and $100 million over the development period.

Equity Offerings and Related Events

In November 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement relating to our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan ("DRIP"),
under which existing stockholders may purchase shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of the cash distribution on their shares of our common stock, subject to certain limits.

In
November 2011, we repaid in full $230.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 3


/


% convertible senior notes due 2011 upon maturity. In accordance with the
terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes, we paid the principal amount of the notes and accrued but unpaid interest thereon in cash and issued an aggregate of 943,714 shares of our
common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount.

In
July 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement relating to the offer and sale, from time to time, of up to 2,103,086 shares of our common stock that we may issue upon redemption
of the Class A limited partnership units in NHP/PMB L.P. See "Note 2—Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
July 2011, following approval by our stockholders, we amended our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as previously amended, to increase the number of authorized shares
of our capital stock to 610,000,000, comprised of 600,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.

In
May 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement relating to the resale by the selling stockholders of the shares of our common stock issued as partial consideration for the ASLG
acquisition. In January 2012, the selling stockholders completed an underwritten public offering of 21,070,658 shares of our common stock pursuant to the resale shelf registration statement. We did
not receive any proceeds from the offering.

In
February 2011, we completed the sale of 5,563,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our shelf registration statement for $300.0 million
in aggregate proceeds.

In
March 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement relating to the resale, from time to time, by the selling stockholders of shares of our common stock issued upon conversion of our


/


% convertible senior notes due 2011.



Other

We received proceeds of $1.8 million and $11.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, from the exercises of outstanding stock options. Future proceeds from the exercises of stock options will be primarily affected by the future trading price of our common stock and the
number of options outstanding. Options outstanding (excluding options we assumed in connection with the NHP acquisition) increased to 2.0 million as of December 31, 2011, from
1.7 million as of December 31, 2010. The weighted average exercise price was $42.10 as of December 31, 2011.

We
issued approximately 13,500 and 41,600 shares of common stock under the DRIP for net proceeds of $0.6 million and $2.1 million for the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock
through the plan. Each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice, thereby affecting the future proceeds that we receive from this plan.

Cash Flows

The following table sets forth our sources and uses of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Increase (Decrease)

to Cash



$

%

(Dollars in thousands)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

$

21,812

$

107,397

$

(85,585

)

(79.7

)%

Net cash provided by operating activities

773,197

447,622

325,575

72.7

Net cash used in investing activities

(997,439

)

(301,920

)

(695,519

)

>100

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

248,282

(231,452

)

479,734

(>100

)

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents

(45

)


(210

)

(>100

)

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

45,807

$

21,812

$

23,995

>100

%

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities increased in 2011 primarily due to the NHP and ASLG acquisitions, higher NOI from our senior
living operations and MOB operations reportable business segments and proceeds related to our litigation with HCP, partially offset by increased merger-related expenses and deal costs, general,
administrative and professional fees and deal costs and interest expense all due to our enterprise growth.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities during 2011 and 2010 consisted primarily of cash paid for our investments in real estate
($531.6 million and $274.4 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively), investments in loans receivable ($628.1 million and $38.7 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively),
capital expenditures ($50.5 million and $18.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively), development project expenditures ($47.6 million and $1.7 million in 2011 and 2010,
respectively), and the purchase of noncontrolling interests ($3.3 million and $42.3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively). The increase in capital expenditures and development project
expenditures is the direct result of the growth in our senior living and MOB operations reportable business segments. These uses were partially offset by proceeds from loans receivable
($220.2 million and $19.3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively),



proceeds
from the sale of marketable debt securities ($23.1 million in 2011), and proceeds from real estate disposals ($20.6 million and $58.2 million in 2011 and 2010,
respectively).

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Cash provided by financing activities during 2011 consisted primarily of $537.5 million of net borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facilities, $1.3 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of debt and $299.8 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock. These cash inflows were
partially offset by $1.4 billion of debt repayments, $526.0 million of cash dividend and distribution payments to common stockholders, unitholders and noncontrolling interest parties and
$20.0 million of payments for deferred financing costs.

Cash
used in financing activities during 2010 consisted primarily of $524.8 million of debt repayments, $344.2 million of cash dividend and distribution payments to common
stockholders and noncontrolling interest parties and $2.7 million of payments for deferred financing costs. These uses were partially offset by $597.4 million of proceeds from the
issuance of debt and $28.6 million of net borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes the effect that minimum debt (which includes principal and interest payments) and other material
noncancelable commitments are expected to have on our cash flow in future periods as of December 31, 2011:

Total

Less than 1

year(5)

1 - 3 years(6)

3 - 5 years(7)

More than 5

years(8)

(In thousands)

Long-term debt obligations(1)(2)(3)

$

7,961,489

$

613,231

$

1,742,243

$

2,397,133

$

3,208,882

Capital lease obligations

211,097

9,446

19,272

19,779

162,600

Acquisition commitments(4)

495,000

495,000

—

—

—

Operating obligations, including ground lease obligations

400,421

17,620

32,346

27,960

322,495

Total

$

9,068,007

$

1,135,297

$

1,793,861

$

2,444,872

$

3,693,977

(1)

Amounts
represent contractual amounts due, including interest.

(2)

Interest
on variable rate debt was based on forward rates obtained as of December 31, 2011.

(3)

The
amounts presented above exclude debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. The total mortgage debt
for these properties as of December 31, 2011 was $14.6 million and is scheduled to mature as follows: $5.7 million in 2012 and $8.9 million in 2032.

(4)

Represents
our acquisition commitments related to the pending Cogdell transaction, two seniors housing communities and one MOB.

(5)

Includes
$82.4 million outstanding principal amount of the Ventas Issuers' 9% senior notes due 2012, and $73.0 million outstanding principal
amount of NHP LLC's 8


/


% senior notes due 2012.

(6)

Includes
$200.0 million of borrowings under our unsecured term loan due 2013, $269.9 million outstanding principal amount of NHP LLC's
6.25% senior notes due 2013, $126.9 million of borrowings under our unsecured term loan due 2015, $400.0 million outstanding principal amount of the Ventas Issuers' 3.125% senior notes
due 2015, and $234.4 million outstanding principal amount of NHP LLC's 6% senior notes due 2015.



(7)

Includes
$200.0 million outstanding principal amount of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2016, $375.0 million of
borrowings under our unsecured term loan due 2017, and $225.0 million outstanding principal amount of the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2017.

(8)

Includes
$700.0 million outstanding principal amount of the Ventas Issuers' 4.750% senior notes due 2021, $52.4 million outstanding principal
amount of NHP LLC's 6.90% senior notes due 2037, and $23.0 million outstanding principal amount of NHP LLC's 6.59% senior notes due 2038.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had $14.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits that are excluded from the table above, as we are unable to make a reasonable reliable estimate
of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authority.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asset/Liability Management" is incorporated by reference into this Item 7A.



ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Ventas, Inc.

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and


Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009


Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2011,
 2010 and 2009


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule III—Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation




MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management, with the participation of the
Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
evaluation, management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 was effective.

On
May 12, 2011, the Company acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately-owned Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its
affiliates, "ASLG"). On July 1, 2011, the Company acquired Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "NHP") in a stock-for-stock
transaction. As permitted under Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines, the Company excluded from the assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, internal control over financial reporting of the
ASLG and NHP assets and operations. Total assets and total revenues related to ASLG and NHP represented 67.4% and 38.1%, respectively, of the Company's related consolidated financial statement amounts
as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011.

The
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Stockholders
and Board of Directors

Ventas, Inc.

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ventas, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to the financial
statements and financial statement schedule. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ventas, Inc. at December 31,
2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Ventas Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 22, 2012



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Stockholders
and Board of Directors

Ventas, Inc.

We
have audited Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Ventas, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As
indicated in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting did not include internal controls of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("ASLG") and Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP"), which are included in the 2011 consolidated
financial statements of Ventas, Inc. and constituted 67.4% and 38.1% of total assets and total revenues, respectively, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting of Ventas, Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of ASLG or NHP.

In
our opinion, Ventas, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2011 consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule of Ventas, Inc. and our report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 22, 2012



VENTAS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010

(In thousands, except per share amounts)



(In thousands, except per

share amounts)

Assets

Real estate investments:

Land and improvements

$

1,614,847

$

559,072

Buildings and improvements

15,337,919

6,035,295

Construction in progress

76,638

6,519

Acquired lease intangibles

800,858

146,813

17,830,262

6,747,699

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(1,916,530

)

(1,468,180

)

Net real estate property

15,913,732

5,279,519

Secured loans receivable, net

212,577

149,263

Investments in unconsolidated entities

105,303

15,332

Net real estate investments

16,231,612

5,444,114

Cash and cash equivalents

45,807

21,812

Escrow deposits and restricted cash

76,590

38,940

Deferred financing costs, net

26,669

19,533

Other assets

891,232

233,622

Total assets

$

17,271,910

$

5,758,021

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Senior notes payable and other debt

$

6,429,116

$

2,900,044

Accrued interest

37,694

19,296

Accounts payable and other liabilities

1,085,597

207,143

Deferred income taxes

260,722

241,333

Total liabilities

7,813,129

3,367,816

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

102,837

—

Commitments and contingencies

Equity:

Ventas stockholders' equity:

Preferred stock, $1.00 par value; 10,000 shares authorized, unissued

—

—

Common stock, $0.25 par value; 600,000 and 300,000 shares authorized at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively; 288,823 and 157,279 shares issued
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively

72,240

39,391

Capital in excess of par value

9,593,583

2,576,843

Accumulated other comprehensive income

22,062

26,868

Retained earnings (deficit)

(412,181

)

(255,628

)

Treasury stock, 14 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010

(747

)

(748

)

Total Ventas stockholders' equity

9,274,957

2,386,726

Noncontrolling interest

80,987

3,479

Total equity

9,355,944

2,390,205

Total liabilities and equity

$

17,271,910

$

5,758,021

See accompanying notes.



VENTAS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009




(In thousands, except per share

amounts)

Revenues:

Rental income:

Triple-net leased

$

652,577

$

461,709

$

452,536

Medical office buildings

167,003

69,747

35,922

819,580

531,456

488,458

Resident fees and services

873,308

446,301

421,058

Medical office building and other services revenue

36,471

14,098

—

Income from loans and investments

34,415

16,412

13,107

Interest and other income

1,217



Total revenues

1,764,991

1,008,751

923,465

Expenses:

Interest

236,807

175,631

173,810

Depreciation and amortization

456,590

203,762

197,298

Property-level operating expenses:

Senior living

593,977

291,831

290,045

Medical office buildings

57,584

24,122

12,768

651,561

315,953

302,813

Medical office building services costs

27,082

9,518

—

General, administrative and professional fees

74,537

49,830

38,830

Loss on extinguishment of debt

27,604

9,791

6,080

Litigation proceeds, net

(202,259

)

—

—

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

153,923

19,243

13,015

Other

8,653



Total expenses

1,434,498

784,000

731,896

Income before loss from unconsolidated entities, income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

330,493

224,751

191,569

Loss from unconsolidated entities

(52

)

(664

)

—

Income tax benefit (expense)

31,137

(5,201

)

1,719

Income from continuing operations

361,578

218,886

193,288

Discontinued operations

1,683

30,843

76,072

Net income

363,261

249,729

269,360

Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest (net of tax of $0, $2,271 and $1,740 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively)

(1,232

)

3,562

2,865

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

364,493

$

246,167

$

266,495

Earnings per common share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

1.59

$

1.37

$

1.25

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.20

0.50

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.60

$

1.57

$

1.75

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

1.57

$

1.36

$

1.24

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.20

0.50

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.58

$

1.56

$

1.74

Weighted average shares used in computing earnings per common share:

Basic

228,453

156,608

152,566

Diluted

230,790

157,657

152,758

See accompanying notes.



VENTAS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

Common

Stock Par

Value

Capital in

Excess of

Par Value

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Retained

Earnings

(Deficit)

Treasury

Stock

Total Ventas

Stockholders'

Equity

Noncontrolling

Interest

Total Equity

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Balance at January 1, 2009

$

35,825

$

2,264,125

$

(21,089

)

$

(117,806

)

$

(457

)

$

2,160,598

$

19,137

$

2,179,735

Comprehensive Income:

Net income

—

—

—

266,495

—

266,495

2,865

269,360

Foreign currency translation

—

—

23,552

—

—

23,552

—

23,552

Change in unrealized gain on marketable debt securities

—

—

17,327

—

—

17,327

—

17,327

Other

—

—

(121

)

—

—

(121

)

—

(121

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

307,253

2,865

310,118

Net change in noncontrolling interest

—


—

—

—


(3,453

)

(3,119

)

Dividends to common stockholders—$2.05 per share

—

—

—

(314,399

)

—

(314,399

)

—

(314,399

)

Issuance of common stock

3,266

295,935

—

—

—

299,201

—

299,201

Issuance of common stock for stock plans


12,819

—

—


13,024

—

13,024

Grant of restricted stock, net of forfeitures


(174

)

—

—

(365

)

(500

)

—

(500

)

Balance at December 31, 2009

39,160

2,573,039

19,669

(165,710

)

(647

)

2,465,511

18,549

2,484,060

Comprehensive Income:

Net income

—

—

—

246,167

—

246,167

3,562

249,729

Foreign currency translation

—

—

6,951

—

—

6,951

—

6,951

Change in unrealized gain on marketable debt securities

—

—


—

—


—


Other

—

—

(106

)

—

—

(106

)

—

(106

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

253,366

3,562

256,928

Net change in noncontrolling interest

—

(18,503

)

—

—

—

(18,503

)

(18,632

)

(37,135

)

Dividends to common stockholders—$2.14 per share

—

—

—

(336,085

)

—

(336,085

)

—

(336,085

)

Issuance of common stock for stock plans


21,076

—

—

3,371

24,644

—

24,644

Grant of restricted stock, net of forfeitures


1,231

—

—

(3,472

)

(2,207

)

—

(2,207

)

Balance at December 31, 2010

39,391

2,576,843

26,868

(255,628

)

(748

)

2,386,726

3,479

2,390,205

Comprehensive Income:

Net income (loss)

—

—

—

364,493

—

364,493

(1,232

)

363,261

Foreign currency translation

—

—

(1,944

)

—

—

(1,944

)

—

(1,944

)

Change in unrealized gain on marketable debt securities

—

—

(2,691

)

—

—

(2,691

)

—

(2,691

)

Other

—

—

(171

)

—

—

(171

)

—

(171

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

359,687

(1,232

)

358,455

Acquisition-related activity

31,181

6,711,081

—

—

(4,326

)

6,737,936

81,192

6,819,128

Net change in noncontrolling interest

—

(3,188

)

—

—

—

(3,188

)

(2,452

)

(5,640

)

Dividends to common stockholders—$2.30 per share

—

—

—

(521,046

)

—

(521,046

)

—

(521,046

)

Issuance of common stock

1,627

297,931

—

—

—

299,558

—

299,558

Issuance of common stock for stock plans


18,999

—

—

3,293

22,301

—

22,301

Adjust redeemable OP unitholder interests to current fair value

—

(4,442

)

—

—

—

(4,442

)

—

(4,442

)

Purchase of OP units

—

(52

)

—

—

—

(52

)

—

(52

)

Grant of restricted stock, net of forfeitures


(3,589

)

—

—

1,034

(2,523

)

—

(2,523

)

Balance at December 31, 2011

$

72,240

$

9,593,583

$

22,062

$

(412,181

)

$

(747

)

$

9,274,957

$

80,987

$

9,355,944

See accompanying notes.



VENTAS, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

363,261

$

249,729

$

269,360

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization (including amounts in discontinued operations)

459,704

206,064

201,258

Amortization of deferred revenue and lease intangibles, net

(12,159

)

(1,764

)

(1,772

)

Other non-cash amortization

(13,163

)

8,750

6,353

Change in fair value of financial instruments

2,959

—

—

Stock-based compensation

19,346

14,078

11,882

Straight-lining of rental income, net

(14,885

)

(10,167

)

(11,879

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

27,604

9,791

6,080

Net gain on sale of real estate assets (including amounts in discontinued operations)

—

(25,241

)

(67,305

)

Gain on real estate loan investments

(3,255

)

(915

)

—

Gain on sale of marketable securities

(733

)

—

—

Income tax (benefit) expense

(31,137

)

5,201

(1,719

)

Loss from unconsolidated entities



—

Other

4,446

(46

)

(95

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Decrease (increase) in other assets


(8,245

)

(1,514

)

(Decrease) increase in accrued interest

(9,150

)

1,311

(3,957

)

(Decrease) increase in accounts payable and other liabilities

(20,117

)

(1,588

)

15,409

Net cash provided by operating activities

773,197

447,622

422,101

Cash flows from investing activities:

Net investment in real estate property

(531,605

)

(274,441

)

(45,715

)

Purchase of noncontrolling interest

(3,319

)

(42,333

)

—

Investment in loans receivable

(628,133

)

(38,725

)

(13,803

)

Proceeds from real estate disposals

20,618

58,163

58,542

Proceeds from loans receivable

220,179

19,291

8,028

Proceeds from sale of marketable securities

23,050

—

—

Proceeds from sale of investments

—

—

5,000

Development project expenditures

(47,591

)

(1,662

)

(2,732

)

Capital expenditures

(50,473

)

(18,193

)

(11,066

)

Other

(165

)

(4,020

)

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(997,439

)

(301,920

)

(1,746

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net change in borrowings under revolving credit facilities

537,452

28,564

(292,873

)

Proceeds from debt

1,343,640

597,382

365,682

Repayment of debt

(1,388,962

)

(524,760

)

(525,173

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(20,040

)

(2,694

)

(16,655

)

Issuance of common stock, net

299,847

—

299,201

Cash distribution to common stockholders

(521,046

)

(336,085

)

(314,399

)

Cash distribution to redeemable OP unitholders

(2,359

)

—

—

Purchases of redeemable OP units

(185

)

—

—

Contributions from noncontrolling interest



1,211

Distributions to noncontrolling interest

(2,556

)

(8,082

)

(9,869

)

Other

2,489

13,405

2,695

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

248,282

(231,452

)

(490,180

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

24,040

(85,750

)

(69,825

)

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents

(45

)



Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

21,812

107,397

176,812

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

45,807

$

21,812

$

107,397

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

Interest paid including swap payments and receipts

$

257,175

$

161,352

$

175,298

Supplemental schedule of non-cash activities:

Assets and liabilities assumed from acquisitions:

Real estate investments

$

10,973,093

$

125,846

$

67,781

Utilization of escrow funds held for an Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 exchange

—

—

(64,995

)

Other assets acquired

594,176

(385

)

—

Debt assumed

3,651,089

125,320

—

Other liabilities

952,279



Deferred income tax liability

43,889

—

—

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

100,888

—

—

Noncontrolling interests

81,192

—

2,724

Equity issued

6,737,932

—

—

Debt transferred on the sale of assets

—

—

38,759

See accompanying notes.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1—Description of Business

Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our") is a real estate investment trust
("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties throughout the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2011, we owned 1,378 properties assets
located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces, consisting of: 678 seniors housing communities; 396 skilled nursing facilities; 47 hospitals; 249 MOBs; and eight personal
care facilities. We also were in the process of developing three properties as of December 31, 2011. We are headquartered in Chicago, Illinois and have been a constituent member of the
S&P 500® Index, a leading indicator of the large cap U.S. equities market, since March 2009.

Our
primary business focuses on acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to unaffiliated tenants or operating those properties through
independent third party managers. Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ("Lillibridge") subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC ("PMBRES"),
which we acquired in July 2011 in connection with our acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "NHP"), we also provide MOB management, leasing,
marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. In addition, from time to time, we make mortgage loan and other
investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or properties.

As
of December 31, 2011, we leased 929 properties (excluding MOBs) to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases that
obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent third parties, such as Atria
Senior Living, Inc. ("Atria") and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise"), to manage 200 seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term
management agreements. Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale Senior Living")
leased 198 and 167 of our properties (excluding properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities), respectively, as of December 31, 2011.

Note 2—Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and the joint
venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings
attributable to noncontrolling interests.

We
apply Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") guidance for arrangements with variable interest entities ("VIEs"), which requires us to identify entities for which control is
achieved through means other than voting rights and to determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity with one or more of the
following characteristics: (a) the total equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance the entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support; (b) as a group,
the holders of the equity investment at risk lack (i) the ability to make decisions about the entity's activities through voting or similar rights, (ii) the obligation to absorb the
expected losses of the entity, or (iii) the right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity; or (c) the equity investors have voting rights that are not proportional to
their economic interests, and substantially all of the entity's activities either involve, or are conducted



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

on
behalf of, an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. We may change our original
assessment of a VIE due to events such as modifications of contractual arrangements that affect the characteristics or adequacy of the entity's equity investments at risk and the disposal of all or a
portion of an interest held by the primary beneficiary.

We
identify the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both: (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity's
economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We perform this analysis on an ongoing basis.
At December 31, 2011, we did not have any unconsolidated VIEs.

We
also apply FASB guidance related to investments in joint ventures based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s) that may preclude consolidation by the sole general
partner in certain circumstances in which the general partner would otherwise consolidate the joint venture. We assess limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control of the
limited partnership by the sole general partner when an investor becomes the sole general partner, and we reassess if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights
of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of
outstanding limited partnership interests. We also apply this guidance to managing member interests in limited liability companies.

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We report investments in unconsolidated entities over whose operating and financial policies we have the ability to exercise
significant influence under the equity method of accounting. Under this method of accounting, our share of the investee's earnings or losses is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

The
initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the fair value of the assets at the time we acquired the joint venture interest. We estimate fair values
for our equity method investments based on discounted cash flow models that include all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and, where applicable, any estimated debt
premiums or discounts. The capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads we use in these models are based upon assumptions that we believe to be within a reasonable range of current market
rates for the respective investments.

We
generally amortize any difference between our cost basis and the basis reflected at the joint venture level over the lives of the related assets and liabilities and include it in our
share of income or loss from unconsolidated entities. For earnings of equity method investments with non-pro rata distribution allocations, net income or loss is allocated between the
partners in the joint venture based on the hypothetical liquidation at book value method (the "HLBV method"). Under the HLBV method, net income or loss is allocated between the partners based on the
difference between each partner's claim on the net assets of the partnership at the end and beginning of the period, after taking into account contributions and distributions. Each partner's share of
the net assets of the partnership is calculated as the amount that the partner would receive if the partnership were to liquidate all of its assets at net book value and distribute the resulting cash
to creditors and partners in accordance with their respective priorities. Under this method, in any given period, we could be recording more or less



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

income
than the joint venture has generated, than actual cash distributions received or than the amount we may receive in the event of an actual liquidation.

Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions regarding future events
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Business Combinations

We account for acquisitions using the acquisition method and allocate the cost of the properties acquired among tangible and recognized
intangible assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles primarily include the value of in-place leases, acquired lease
contracts, tenant and customer relationships, trade names/trademarks and goodwill. We do not amortize goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net
assets of the acquired business and is included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

We
estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building, not to
exceed 35 years. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets, such as site improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment, based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such
value over the assets' estimated remaining useful lives as determined at the applicable acquisition date. We determine the value of land by considering the sales prices of similar properties in recent
transactions or based on (a) internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio or (b) real estate tax assessed values in relation to the
total value of the asset.

The
fair value of acquired lease intangibles, if any, reflects (i) the estimated value of any above and/or below market leases, determined by discounting the difference between
the estimated market rent and the in-place lease rent, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which we amortize to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any
bargain renewal periods, and (ii) the estimated value of in-place leases related to the cost to obtain tenants, including leasing commissions, and an estimated value of the
absorption period to reflect the value of the rent and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period as if the acquired space was vacant, which we amortize to amortization
expense over the remaining life of the associated lease. If a lease were to be terminated prior to its stated expiration or not renewed, all unamortized amounts of lease intangibles would be
recognized in operations at that time.

We
estimate the fair value of purchase option intangible assets or liabilities by discounting the difference between the applicable property's acquisition date fair value and an estimate
of the future option price. We do not amortize the resulting intangible asset or liability over the term of the lease, but rather adjust the recognized value of the asset or liability upon exercise of
the purchase option. Net real estate assets for which we have recorded a tenant purchase option intangible were $644.0 million and $0 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

We
estimate the fair value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired, if any, by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant or
customer, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant or customer, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant,
additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant and amortize that value over the expected life of the associated arrangements or leases, including the remaining terms of the related leases and
any expected renewal periods. We estimate the fair value of trade names/trademarks using a royalty rate methodology and amortize that value over the estimated useful life of the trade name/trademark.

In
connection with a business combination, we may assume the rights and obligations under certain lease agreements pursuant to which we become the lessee of a given property. We assume
the lease
classification previously determined by the prior lessee absent a modification in the assumed lease agreement. In connection with our recent acquisitions, all capital leases acquired or assumed
contain bargain purchase options that we intend to exercise. Therefore, we recognized an asset based on the acquisition date fair value of the underlying property and a liability based on the
acquisition date fair value of the capital lease obligation. We depreciate assets recognized under capital leases that contain bargain purchase options over the asset's useful life. We assess assumed
operating leases, including ground leases, to determine whether the lease terms are favorable or unfavorable given current market conditions on the acquisition date. To the extent the lease terms are
favorable or unfavorable relative to market conditions on the acquisition date, we recognize an intangible asset or liability, respectively, at fair value, and we amortize the recognized asset or
liability (excluding purchase option intangibles) to interest or rental expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income over the applicable lease term. We include all lease-related intangible assets
and all lease-related intangible liabilities within acquired lease intangibles and accounts payable and other liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

We
determine fair value of loans receivable acquired in connection with a business combination by discounting the estimated future cash flows using current interest rates at which
similar loans with the same maturities and same terms would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings. The estimated future cash flows reflect our judgment regarding the uncertainty of those
cash flows, so we do not establish a valuation allowance at the acquisition date. We recognize the difference between the acquisition date fair value and the total expected cash flows as interest
income using an effective interest method over the life of the applicable loan. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we evaluate changes regarding the uncertainty of future cash flows and the need for
a valuation allowance.

We
estimate the fair value of noncontrolling interests assumed using assumptions that are consistent with those used in valuing all of the underlying assets and liabilities.

We
calculate the fair value of long-term debt by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings, which we
approximate based on the rate we would expect to incur to replace the instrument on the date of acquisition, and recognize any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt as effective
yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.

We
record a liability for contingent consideration (included in accounts payable and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets) at fair value as of the acquisition date and
reassess the fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any changes being recognized in earnings. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration can result from changes
in discount periods, discount rates and probabilities that contingencies will be met.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Impairment of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets

We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment
indicators. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying
operation. In performing this evaluation we consider market conditions as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. We adjust the net book value of leased properties and
other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows, including sales proceeds, is less than book value. We recognize an impairment loss at the
time we make any such determination.

If
impairment indicators arise with respect to intangible assets with finite useful lives, we evaluate impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future
undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, then we estimate the fair value of
the asset. We determine the impairment loss by comparing the estimated fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying value and recognize any shortfall from fair value as a loss in the current
period.

We
evaluate our investments in unconsolidated entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated
joint venture may exceed the fair value. If it is determined that a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture is other-than-temporary, and
if such reduced fair value is below its carrying value, an impairment is recorded. The determination of the fair value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures involves significant judgment.
Our estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at market rates, general economic conditions and trends and
other relevant factors.

Goodwill
is tested for impairment at least annually, but more frequently if indicators arise. We first assess qualitative factors to determine the likelihood that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors we assess include current macroeconomic conditions, state of the equity and capital markets and our overall financial and operating
performance. If we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we proceed with the two-step approach to evaluating
impairment. In the first step of this approach we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit and compare it to the reporting unit's carrying value. Should the carrying value exceed fair value, we
proceed with the second step. The second step of this approach requires the fair value of a reporting unit to be assigned to all the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if it had been
acquired in a business combination at the date of the impairment test. The excess fair value of the reporting unit over amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities is the implied value of goodwill
and is used to determine the amount of impairment. We recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied value in the current period.

Estimates
of fair value used in this evaluation of goodwill, investments in real estate and intangibles are based upon discounted future cash flow projections, which are, in turn, based
upon a number of estimates and assumptions, such as revenue and expense growth rates, capitalization rates and discount rates. Our ability to accurately predict future operating results and cash flows
and estimate and allocate fair values impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our
financial statements. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

We sell properties from time to time for various reasons, including market conditions or the exercise of purchase options by tenants.
We classify certain long-lived assets as held for sale once the criteria, as defined by applicable accounting guidance, has been met. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are
reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value minus cost to sell and are no longer depreciated. Discontinued operations is defined as a component of an entity that has either been
disposed of or is deemed to be held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations as a result of the disposal transaction and
the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations and any gain or loss on assets sold or held
for sale are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We have estimated interest expense allocated to discontinued operations based on
property values and our weighted average interest rate or the property's mortgage interest.

Loans Receivable

We record loans receivable, other than those acquired in connection with a business combination, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets
(either in secured loans receivable, net or, with respect to unsecured loans receivable, other assets) at the unpaid principal balance, net of any deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or
premiums and valuation allowances. We amortize net deferred origination fees, which are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs, and purchase discounts or
premiums over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method and recognize any unamortized balances in income immediately if the loan is repaid before its contractual maturity.
We regularly evaluate the collectibility of loans receivable based
on several factors, including without limitation (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with any financial covenants set forth in the
applicable loan agreement, (iii) the financial strength of the borrower and any guarantor, (iv) the payment history of the borrower, and (v) current economic conditions. If our
evaluation of these factors indicates it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the applicable loan agreement, we provide a reserve against the portion
of the receivable that we estimate may not be collected.

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with a maturity date of three months or less when purchased. These investments
are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.

Escrow Deposits and Restricted Cash

Escrow deposits consist of amounts held by us or our lenders to provide for future real estate tax and insurance expenditures and
tenant improvements related to our properties and operations. Restricted cash represents amounts paid to us for security deposits and other similar purposes.

Deferred Financing Costs

We amortize deferred financing costs as a component of interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings using a method that
approximates a level yield. Deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization, were approximately $26.7 million and $19.5 million at December 31, 2011



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

and
2010, respectively. Amortized costs of approximately $17.8 million, $17.8 million and $14.6 million were included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.

Marketable Debt and Equity Securities

We record marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale and classify them as a component of other
assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We record these securities at fair value and include unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We report interest income, including discount or premium amortization, on marketable debt securities and gains or losses on securities sold,
which are based on the specific identification method, in income from loans and investments in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Derivative Instruments

We recognize all derivative instruments in either other assets or accounts payable and other accrued liabilities on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets at fair value as of the reporting date. We recognize changes in the fair value of derivative instruments in other expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income or accumulated other
comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, depending on the intended use of the derivative and our designation of the instrument.

We
do not use our derivative financial instruments, including interest rate caps, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts, for trading or speculative purposes. Our
interest rate caps were designated as having a hedging relationship with their underlying securities and therefore meet the criteria for hedge accounting under GAAP. Our interest rate caps are
recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, and we recognize changes in the fair value of these instruments in accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Our interest rate swaps (excluding the interest rate swap contract of an unconsolidated joint venture described below) and foreign currency forward contracts were not designated as having a hedging
relationship with their underlying securities and therefore do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting under GAAP. Our interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts are recorded on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, and we recognize changes in the fair value of these instruments in current earnings (in other expenses) in our Consolidated Statements of Income. One of our
unconsolidated joint
ventures is party to an interest rate swap contract that was designated as effectively hedging the variability of expected cash flows related to variable rate debt secured by a portion of its real
estate portfolio. We recognize our proportionate share of the change in fair value of this swap in accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments

Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and we determine fair value based on the assumptions that
we expect market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, FASB guidance establishes a fair value
hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels
one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Level
one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the reporting entity has the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs
other than quoted prices included in level one that are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in
active markets, as well as other inputs for the asset or liability, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves, which are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three
inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on the reporting entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. If the
determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the hierarchy, the level within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and
considers factors specific to the asset or liability.

We
use the following methods and assumptions in estimating fair value of financial instruments.

•

Cash and cash equivalents:

The carrying amount of
unrestricted cash and cash equivalents reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

•

Loans receivable:

We estimate the fair value of loans
receivable by discounting future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities and same terms would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings. The
inputs used to measure the fair value of our loans receivable are level two and level three inputs. Additionally, we determine the valuation allowance for losses on loans receivable based on level
three inputs.

•

Marketable debt securities:

We estimate the fair value of
marketable debt securities using quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets that we have the ability to access. The inputs used to measure the fair value of our marketable debt
securities are level two inputs.

•

Derivative instruments:

With the assistance of a third
party, we estimate the fair value of our derivative instruments, including interest rate caps, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts, using level two inputs. We determine the
fair value of interest rate caps using forward yield curves and other relevant information. We estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps using alternative financing rates derived from
market-based financing rates, forward yield curves and discount rates. We determine the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts by estimating the future values of the two currency tranches
using forward exchange rates that are based on traded forward points and calculating a present value of the net amount using a discount factor based on observable traded interest rates.

•

Senior notes payable and other debt:

We estimate the fair
value of borrowings by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which we could make similar borrowings. The inputs used to measure the fair value of our senior notes payable
and other debt are level two inputs.

•

Contingent consideration:

We estimate the fair value of
contingent consideration using probability assessments of expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and by applying a discount rate that
appropriately captures a market participant's view of the risk associated with the obligation. The inputs we use to determine the fair value of contingent consideration are considered level three
inputs.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

•

Redeemable OP unitholder interests:

We estimate the fair
value of redeemable OP unitholder interests based on the closing price of our common stock, as the OP Units (as defined below) may be redeemed at the election of the holder for cash or, at our option,
0.7866 shares of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The inputs used to measure the fair value of redeemable OP unitholder interests are level two inputs.

Revenue Recognition

Triple-Net Leased Properties and MOB Operations

Certain of our triple-net leases, including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and the majority of
leases we acquired in connection with the NHP acquisition, and most of our MOB leases provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. We recognize base rental revenues under these leases
on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease term when collectability is reasonably assured. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized
revenues during the first half of a lease term exceeding the cash amounts contractually due from our tenants, creating a straight-line rent receivable that is included in other assets on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, this cumulative excess (net of allowances) totaled $96.9 million and $86.3 million, respectively.

Our
master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") and certain of our other leases provide for periodic increases in base rent only if certain revenue parameters or
other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases as the related parameters or contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line
basis over the applicable lease term.

Senior Living Operations

We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are provided. We recognize
move-in fees on a straight-line basis over the average resident stay. Our lease agreements with residents generally have a term of twelve to eighteen months and are cancelable
by the resident upon 30 days' notice.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Other

We recognize interest income from loans, including discounts and premiums, using the effective interest method when collectibility is
reasonably assured. We apply the effective interest method on a loan-by-loan basis and recognize discounts and premiums as yield adjustments over the related loan term. We
recognize interest income on an impaired loan to the extent our estimate of the fair value of the collateral is sufficient to support the balance of the loan, other receivables and all related accrued
interest. When the balance of the loan, other receivables and all related accrued interest is equal to our estimate of the fair value of the collateral, we recognize interest income on a cash basis.
We provide a reserve against an impaired loan to the extent our total investment in the loan exceeds our estimate of the fair value of the loan collateral.

We
recognize income from rent, lease termination fees, management advisory services and all other income when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the applicable agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount
is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.

Allowances

We assess the collectibility of our rent receivables, including straight-line rent receivables, in accordance with the
applicable accounting standards and our reserve policy, and we defer recognition of revenue if collectibility is not reasonably assured. We base our assessment of the collectibility of rent
receivables (excluding straight-line receivables) on several factors, including, among other things, payment history, the financial strength of the tenant and any guarantors, the value of
the underlying collateral, if any, and current economic conditions. If our evaluation of these factors indicates it is probable that we will be unable to recover the full value of the receivable, we
provide a reserve against the portion of the receivable that we estimate may not be recovered. We base our assessment of the collectibility of straight-line receivables on several factors,
including, among other things, the financial strength of the tenant and any guarantors, the historical operations and operating trends of the property, the historical payment pattern of the tenant,
and the type of property. If our evaluation of these factors indicates it is probable that we will be unable to receive the rent payments due in the future, we defer recognition of the
straight-line rental income and, in certain circumstances, provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full
value, that we estimate may not be recovered. If we change our assumptions or estimates regarding the collectibility of future rent payments required by a lease, we may adjust our reserve to increase
or reduce the rental revenue recognized and/or to increase or reduce the reserve against the existing straight-line rent receivable.

Stock-Based Compensation

We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB guidance requiring all share-based payments to employees and directors,
including grants of stock options, to be recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income generally on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period based on the fair value of
the award.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Gain on Sale of Assets

We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. We record payments received from purchasers
prior to closing as deposits and classify them as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We recognize gains on assets sold using the full accrual method upon closing if the collectibility of
the sales price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform any significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser,
and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. We may defer recognition of gains in whole or in part until (i) the profit is determinable, meaning that the collectibility of the
sales price is reasonably assured or the amount that will not be collectible can be estimated, and (ii) the earnings process is virtually complete, meaning that we are not obliged to perform
any significant activities after the sale to earn the profit.

Federal Income Tax

We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"),
for every year beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999 and have made no provision for REIT income and expense, other than for certain unrecognized tax benefit items. However, we record
income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations.

We
account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have
been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a
change in circumstances, and that causes us to change our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes
also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset
will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes us to change our judgment about the realizability of the related
deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur.

Foreign Currency

Certain of our subsidiaries' functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of
operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end
of the period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We record
transaction gains and losses in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Segment Reporting

As of December 31, 2011, we operated through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties,
senior living operations and MOB operations. Our triple-net leased properties



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

segment
consists of acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or
"absolute-net" leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in
the United States and Canada for which we engage independent third parties, such as Atria and Sunrise, to manage the operations. Our MOB operations segment primarily consists of acquiring, owning,
developing, leasing and managing MOBs.

On
July 1, 2010, we completed the acquisition of businesses owned and operated by Lillibridge and its related entities and their real estate interests in 96 MOBs and ambulatory
facilities. With the addition of these businesses and properties, we believed the segregation of our MOB operations into its own reportable business segment would be useful in assessing the
performance of this portion of our business in the same way that management intends to review our performance and make operating decisions. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through two reportable
business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. See "Note 20—Segment Information."

Convertible Debt Instruments

On January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB guidance relating to convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon
conversion. The guidance specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the
liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Our nonconvertible debt borrowing
rate at the time our convertible senior notes were issued was 6


/


%. Applying this guidance, interest expense increased and net income decreased by $4.0 million ($0.02 per
diluted share), $4.2 million ($0.03 per diluted share) and $3.9 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and total
equity increased by $12.1 million at December 31, 2008, which includes the calculated equity component of $19.5 million. In November 2011, we repaid in full $230.0 million
principal amount outstanding of our convertible notes upon maturity and issued 943,714 shares of our common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. See
"Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements."

Leases

We include assets under capital leases within net real estate assets, and we include capital lease obligations within senior notes
payable and other debt, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We segregate lease payments under capital lease arrangements between interest expense and a reduction to the outstanding principal balance
using the effective interest method. We account for payments made pursuant to operating leases in our Consolidated Statements of Income based on actual rent paid, plus or minus a
straight-line rent adjustment for leases that provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent.

Redeemable Limited Partnership Unitholder Interests

In connection with the NHP acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in NHP/PMB L.P. ("NHP/PMB"), a limited partnership that
was formed in 2008 to acquire properties from entities affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC. We consolidate NHP/PMB, as our wholly owned subsidiary is the general partner and exercises
control of the partnership. As of December 31, 2011,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

third
party investors owned 2,371,415 Class A limited partnership units in NHP/PMB ("OP Units"), which represented 28.9% of the total units then outstanding, and we owned 5,845,038
Class B limited partnership units in NHP/PMB, representing the remaining 71.1%. At any time following the first anniversary of the date of their issuance, the OP Units may be redeemed at the
election of the holder for cash or, at our option, 0.7866 shares of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. We are party by assumption to a registration rights
agreement with the holders of the OP Units that requires us, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, to file and maintain a registration statement relating to the issuance of shares of
our common stock upon redemption of OP Units. As redemption rights are outside of our control, the redeemable OP unitholder interests are classified outside of permanent equity on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 480,

Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity

, to reflect the redeemable OP unitholder interests at
the greater of cost or fair value. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the redeemable OP unitholder interests was $102.8 million. The change in fair value from the acquisition
date to December 31, 2011 has been recorded through capital in excess of par value, net of cash distributions paid and purchases by us of any OP Units. Our diluted earnings per share ("EPS")
includes the effect of any potential shares outstanding from these OP Units.

Noncontrolling Interests

We present the portion of any equity that we do not own in entities that we control (and thus consolidate) as noncontrolling interests
and classify such interests as a component of consolidated equity, separate from total Ventas stockholders' equity, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We account for purchases or sales of equity
interests that do not result in a change of control as equity transactions, through additional paid-in capital. In addition, we include net income attributable to the noncontrolling
interests in net income in our Consolidated Statements of Income and, upon a gain or loss of control, we record the interest purchased or sold, as well as any interest retained, at its fair value and
recognize any gain or loss in earnings.

As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had controlling interests in 29 properties and six properties, respectively, owned through joint ventures. The noncontrolling interests in
these properties as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $81.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded a
loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $1.2 million, income attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million and income attributable to noncontrolling interests of
$2.9 million, respectively.

Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Standards

In December 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2011-10,

Derecognition of in
Substance Real Estate—a Scope Clarification

("ASU 2011-10"), which clarifies certain guidance for situations in which a reporting entity ceases to have
a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary that is, in substance, real estate as a result of default on the subsidiary's nonrecourse debt. In such situations, ASU 2011-10 requires a
company to apply the provisions of ASC Topic 360,

Property, Plant, and Equipment,

in determining whether it should derecognize the real estate assets.
The provisions of ASU 2011-10 will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2013 and are not expected to have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In
September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08,

Testing Goodwill for Impairment

("ASU 2011-08"), which
permits companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine the likelihood



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, before performing the current two-step analysis. If a company determines it is more likely than not that the fair
value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the company must proceed with the two-step approach to evaluating impairment. We adopted the provisions of ASU
2011-08 in 2011, and the adoption did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 1, 2011, we adopted ASU 2010-28,

When to
Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts

("ASU 2010-28"). ASU 2010-28 states that if a
reporting unit has a carrying amount that is equal to or less than zero and there are qualitative factors that indicate it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, Step 2 of the
goodwill impairment test must be performed. The adoption of ASU 2010-28 also did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In
June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,

Presentation of Comprehensive Income

("ASU 2011-05"), which
amends current guidance found in ASC Topic 220,

Comprehensive Income

. ASU 2011-05 requires entities to present comprehensive income
in either: (i) one continuous financial statement or (ii) two separate but consecutive statements that display net income and the components of other comprehensive income. Totals and
individual components of both net income and other comprehensive income must be included in either presentation. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12,

Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation
of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in

Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05 ("ASU
2011-12"). The provisions of ASU 2011-12 indefinitely defer portions of ASU 2011-05 related to the presentation of reclassification of items out of accumulated
other comprehensive income. The provisions of both ASU 2011-05 and ASU 2011-12 will be effective for us beginning with the first quarter of 2012.

On
January 1, 2011, we adopted ASU 2010-29,

Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations

("ASU 2010-29"), affecting public entities that enter into business combinations that are material on an individual or aggregate basis. ASU 2010-29 specifies that if a public
entity presents comparative financial statements, it should disclose revenues and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the year had occurred at
the beginning of the prior annual reporting period when preparing the pro forma financial information for both the current and prior reporting periods. The guidance, which is effective for business
combinations consummated in reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010, also requires that pro forma disclosures be accompanied by a narrative description regarding the nature and
amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination(s) included in reported pro forma revenues and earnings. We have presented supplementary pro
forma information related to our acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, "ASLG") in May
2011 and our acquisition of NHP in July 2011 in "Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property."

In
January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06,

Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements

("ASU 2010-06"),
which expands required disclosures related to an entity's fair value measurements. Certain provisions of ASU 2010-06 were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2009, and we adopted those provisions as of January 1, 2010. The remaining provisions, which were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2010, require additional disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in an entity's reconciliation of recurring level three investments. We adopted those
provisions of ASU 2010-06 as of January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 2—Accounting Policies (Continued)

Reclassifications

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk

As of December 31, 2011, Atria, Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred managed or operated approximately 19.0%, 14.4%, 13.0% and 5.0%, respectively, of our real estate
investments based on their gross book value (including amounts held for sale as of December 31, 2011). Also, as of December 31, 2011, seniors housing communities constituted
approximately 66.7% of our real estate portfolio based on gross book value (including amounts held for sale as of December 31, 2011), with skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, MOBs and other
healthcare assets collectively comprising the remaining 33.3%. Our properties were located in 46 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2011, with
properties in only one state (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues or net operating income ("NOI", which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income,
less property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs) (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2011. Properties in two states
(California and Illinois) each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues or NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations related to properties held for sale at December 31, 2009)
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 14.3%, 24.2% and 26.2%, respectively, of our total revenues
and 23.2%, 35.6% and 38.5%, respectively, of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations) were derived from our lease agreements with Kindred. For the same periods, approximately 8.2%,
11.9% and 12.9%, respectively, of our total revenues and 13.4%, 17.3% and 19.1%, respectively, of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations) were derived from our lease agreements
with Brookdale Senior Living. Each of the Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all
property-level expenses and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.

Because
the properties we lease to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living account for a significant portion of our total revenues and NOI, our financial condition and results of operations
could be weakened and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders could be limited if either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living were unable or unwilling to
satisfy its obligations to us or to renew its leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof. We cannot provide any assurance that either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient
assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to do so could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and on our ability to make
distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect"). We also cannot provide any assurance that either Kindred or Brookdale Senior
Living will elect to renew its respective leases with us upon expiration of their terms or that we will be able to reposition any properties that are not renewed on a timely basis or on the same or
better economic terms, if at all.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk (Continued)

The
197 properties we lease to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases are grouped into bundles or renewal groups (each, a "renewal group") containing a varying number of
properties. All properties within a single renewal group have the same primary lease term of ten to fifteen years (commencing May 1, 1998), and each renewal group is subject to three successive
five-year renewal terms at the tenant's option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

The
current lease term for ten renewal groups covering a total of 89 properties leased to Kindred (the "Renewal Assets") will expire on April 30, 2013 unless Kindred
provides us with renewal notices with respect to one or more of those bundles on or before April 30, 2012. In November 2011, we received renewal notices from Kindred with respect to two
renewal groups covering a total of sixteen Renewal Assets (the "Early Renewal Assets") and collectively representing approximately $23 million of current annual base rent. In
December 2011, we initiated a fair market rental reset process with respect to certain Early Renewal Assets. While we believe that aggregate annual base rent for those Early Renewal Assets is
likely to increase as a result of the reset process, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the final determination of fair market rent, which is highly speculative and may be influenced by a
variety of factors. In addition, in certain cases Kindred may have the right to revoke its renewal of those Early Renewal Assets for which we initiated the fair market rental reset process.

The
remaining eight renewal groups covering a total of 73 Renewal Assets collectively represent approximately $99 million of current annual base rent, and each renewal group
contains six or more properties, including at least one hospital. Kindred is required to continue to perform all of its obligations under the applicable Kindred Master Lease for the Renewal Assets
within any renewal group that is not renewed until expiration of the term on April 30, 2013, including without limitation payment of all rental amounts. Therefore, as to any renewal group for
which we do not receive a renewal notice, we will have at least one year to arrange for the repositioning of the applicable
Renewal Assets with new operators. Moreover, we own or have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and ensure an orderly
transition of the properties to another operator.

Pursuant
to the terms of the Kindred Master Leases, we will have a unilateral group-by-group option to initiate a fair market rental reset process with respect to
four of the eight remaining renewal groups covering a total of 37 Renewal Assets and collectively representing approximately $43 million of current annual base rent (the "Remaining Reset
Assets") should Kindred provide renewal notices with respect to one or more of those renewal groups. If we initiate the fair market rental reset process for any renewal group comprising the Remaining
Reset Assets, the annual base rent for the assets in that renewal group for the first year of the renewal term (commencing May 1, 2013) will be the higher of the contractually escalated rent
and fair market rent, as determined by the appraisal process set forth in the Kindred Master Leases.

We
cannot provide any assurance that Kindred will elect to renew any or all of the remaining eight renewal groups whose lease expires April 30, 2013, that Kindred will not revoke
its renewal of the Early Renewal Assets for which we initiated the fair market rental reset process, or that we will be able to reposition any or all non-renewed assets on a timely basis or on the
same or better economic terms, if at all. See "Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition
the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Item 1A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk (Continued)

The
current lease term for the 108 properties leased to Kindred not comprising the Renewal Assets will expire on April 30, 2015, subject to Kindred's two sequential
five-year renewal options for those assets.

The
following table sets forth the future contracted minimum rentals, excluding contingent rent escalations, but including straight-line rent adjustments where applicable,
for all of our triple-net and MOB leases as of December 31, 2011 (excluding properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities and properties held for sale as of
December 31, 2011):

Kindred

Brookdale

Senior

Living

Other

Total

(In thousands)


$

260,530

$

161,203

$

598,235

$

1,019,968


181,126

160,018

584,414

925,558


142,730

149,316

572,206

864,252


48,785

138,514

550,927

738,226


1,009

136,846

502,890

640,745

Thereafter

—

439,387

2,969,762

3,409,149

Total

$

634,180

$

1,185,284

$

5,778,434

$

7,597,898

Senior Living Operations

As of December 31, 2011, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services
with respect to 197 of our seniors housing communities for which we pay an annual management fee pursuant to long-term management agreements. Each management agreement with Atria has a
term of ten years commencing in 2011, subject to successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and each management agreement with Sunrise has a term of 30 years commencing as early
as 2004. Under the Sunrise management agreements, our management fee was reduced to 3.75% of revenues generated by the applicable properties for 2011, but will revert to 6% of revenues generated by
the applicable properties (with a range of 5% to 7%) for 2012 and thereafter.

Because
Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our
triple-net tenants. However, we rely on our managers' personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and
judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties in compliance with the terms of
our management agreements. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, Atria's or Sunrise's inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under those
agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition,
significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior management or any adverse developments in their business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk (Continued)

Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise and Atria Information

Each of Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise is subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC and is required to file with
the SEC annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and
Sunrise contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from SEC filings made by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise, as the case may be, or from
other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by
reviewing Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's or Sunrise's public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot provide any
assurance that all of this information is accurate. Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's filings with the SEC can be found at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data
for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to obtain Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's publicly available filings from the SEC.

Atria
is not subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. The information related to Atria contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived
from publicly available information or has been provided to us by Atria. We have not verified this information through an independent investigation. We have no reason to believe that this information
is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot provide any assurance that all of this information is accurate.

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property

The following summarizes our acquisitions in 2011, 2010 and 2009. We engage in acquisition activity primarily to invest in additional seniors housing and healthcare properties and
achieve an expected yield on investment, to grow and diversify our portfolio and revenue base and to reduce our dependence on any single tenant, operator or manager, geographic area, asset type,
business model or revenue source.

ASLG

In May 2011, we acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately-owned ASLG. We funded a portion
of the purchase price through the issuance of 24.96 million shares of our common stock (which shares had a total value of $1.38 billion based on the acquisition date closing price of our
common stock of $55.33 per share). In October 2011, we cancelled 83,441 shares issued to the sellers for a working capital adjustment in accordance with the purchase agreement.

As
a result of the ASLG transaction, we added to our senior living operating portfolio 117 private pay seniors housing communities and one development land parcel located primarily in
affluent coastal markets such as the New York metropolitan area, New England and California. Prior to the closing, ASLG spun off its management operations to a newly formed entity, Atria, which
continues to operate the acquired assets under long-term management agreements with us. For the period from May 12, 2011 through December 31, 2011, revenues attributable to
the acquired assets were $403.2 million and NOI attributable to the acquired assets was $122.1 million.

We
are accounting for the ASLG acquisition under the acquisition method in accordance with ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

("ASC
805"). The following table summarizes the acquisition



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property (Continued)

date
fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which we determined using level two and level three inputs (in thousands):

Land and improvements

$

341,540

Buildings and improvements

2,876,717

Acquired lease intangibles

160,340

Other assets

216,009

Total assets acquired

3,594,606

Notes payable and other debt

1,629,212

Deferred tax liability

44,608

Other liabilities

202,167

Total liabilities assumed

1,875,987

Net assets acquired

1,718,619

Cash acquired

77,718

Equity issued

1,376,437

Total cash used

$

264,464

The
allocation of fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has changed and is subject to further adjustment from the allocation reported in
"Note 4-Acquisitions of Real Estate Property" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2011, filed with the SEC on November 7, 2011, due primarily to reclassification adjustments for presentation, adjustments to our valuation assumptions and
final purchase price settlement with the sellers in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement. The changes to our valuation assumptions were based on more accurate information concerning the
subject assets and liabilities. None of these changes had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Included
in other assets is $81.0 million of goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of
the acquisition date. All of the goodwill was assigned to our senior living operations reportable segment, and we do not expect to deduct any of the goodwill balance for tax purposes.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had incurred a total of $53.3 million of acquisition-related costs related to the ASLG acquisition, all of which were expensed as incurred and
included in merger-related expenses and deal costs in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the applicable periods. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we expensed $48.9 million of
acquisition-related costs related to the ASLG acquisition.

As
partial consideration for the ASLG acquisition, the sellers received the right to earn additional amounts ("contingent consideration") based upon the achievement of certain
performance metrics, including the future operating results of the acquired assets, and other factors. The contingent consideration, if any, will be payable to the sellers following the applicable
measurement date for the period ending December 31, 2014 or December 31, 2015, at the election of the sellers. We cannot determine the actual amount of contingent consideration, if any,
that may become due to the sellers because it is dependent on various factors, such as the future performance of the acquired assets and our equity multiple, which are subject to many risks and
uncertainties beyond our control. We are also unable to estimate a range of potential outcomes for the same reason. We estimated the fair value of



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property (Continued)

contingent
consideration as of the acquisition date and as of December 31, 2011 using probability assessments of expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected
to be settled and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participant's view of the risk associated with the obligation. This contingent consideration liability is carried on our
Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 at its discounted fair value, and we record any changes in its discounted fair value in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of both
December 31, 2011 and the acquisition date, the estimated discounted fair value of contingent consideration was $44.2 million.

NHP Acquisition

In July 2011, we acquired NHP in a stock-for-stock transaction. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in the agreement and plan of merger dated as of February 27, 2011, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of NHP common stock (other than shares owned
by us or any of our subsidiaries or any wholly owned subsidiary of NHP) was converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares of our common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. In
connection with the acquisition, we paid $105 million at closing to repay amounts then outstanding and terminated the commitments under NHP's revolving credit facility. The NHP acquisition
added 643 seniors housing and healthcare properties to our portfolio (including properties owned through joint ventures). For the period from July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011,
revenues attributable to the acquired assets were $269.1 million and NOI attributable to the acquired assets was $245.1 million (including amounts in discontinued operations).

We
are accounting for the NHP acquisition under the acquisition method in accordance with ASC 805, and we have completed our initial accounting for this acquisition, which is
subject to further adjustment. The following table summarizes the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which we determined using level two and level three
inputs (in thousands):

Land and improvements

$

704,315

Buildings and improvements

6,216,925

Acquired lease intangibles

503,451

Investment in unconsolidated entities

93,553

Other assets

756,074

Total assets acquired

8,274,318

Notes payable and other debt

1,882,752

Other liabilities

744,410

Total liabilities assumed

2,627,162

Redeemable OP unitholder interests assumed

100,888

Noncontrolling interest assumed

79,773

Net assets acquired

5,466,495

Cash acquired

29,202

Equity issued

5,361,495

Total cash used

$

75,798

The
allocation of fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has changed and is subject to further adjustment from the allocation reported in
"Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property (Continued)

Property"
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, filed
with the SEC on November 7, 2011, due primarily to reclassification adjustments for presentation, adjustments to our valuation assumptions and acquiring additional information not readily
available at the date of acquisition. The changes to our valuation assumptions were based on more accurate information concerning the subject assets and liabilities. The changes related primarily to a
decrease in investments in real estate of approximately $161.6 million and a corresponding increase in other assets.

Included
in other assets is $347.9 million of goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of
the acquisition date. We have allocated $293.0 million and $54.9 million of the goodwill balance to our triple-net leased properties and MOB operations reportable business
segments, respectively, based on relative fair value. We do not expect to deduct any of the goodwill balance for tax purposes.

As
of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, we had incurred a total of $53.3 million of acquisition-related costs related to the NHP acquisition, all of which we
expensed as incurred during 2011 and included in merger-related expenses and deal costs in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Other 2011 Acquisitions

During 2011, we also invested approximately $329.5 million, including the assumption of $134.9 million in debt, in MOBs and
seniors housing communities.

Lillibridge Acquisition

In July 2010, we completed the acquisition of businesses owned and operated by Lillibridge and its related entities and their real
estate interests in 96 MOBs and ambulatory facilities for approximately $381 million, including the assumption of $79.5 million of mortgage debt that was not repaid in connection with
the closing.

As
a result of the Lillibridge acquisition, we acquired: a 100% interest in Lillibridge's property management, leasing, marketing, facility development, and advisory services business; a
100% interest in 38 MOBs; a 20% joint venture interest in 24 MOBs; and a 5% joint venture interest in 34 MOBs. We are the managing member of these joint ventures and the property manager for the joint
venture properties. Two institutional third parties hold the controlling interests in these joint ventures, and we have a right of first offer on those interests. We funded the acquisition with cash
on hand, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the assumption of mortgage debt. In connection with the acquisition, $132.7 million of mortgage debt was repaid.

Other 2010 Acquisitions

During 2010, we also purchased five MOBs for a purchase price of $36.6 million and acquired Sunrise's noncontrolling interests
in 58 of our Sunrise-managed seniors housing communities for a total valuation of approximately $186 million, including the assumption of Sunrise's share of mortgage debt totaling approximately
$144 million. The noncontrolling interests acquired represented between 15% and 25% ownership interests in the communities, and we now own 100% of all 79 of our Sunrise-managed seniors housing
communities. We recorded the difference between the consideration paid and



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property (Continued)

the
noncontrolling interest balance as a component of equity in capital in excess of par value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

2009 Acquisitions

During 2009, we purchased four MOBs for an aggregate purchase price of $77.7 million, including $1.7 million of
noncontrolling interest. We own one of these MOBs through a consolidated joint venture with a partner that provides management and leasing services for the property. Additionally, in 2009, we
purchased one skilled nursing facility for $10.0 million and leased it to Brookdale Senior Living.

We
also completed the development of two MOBs, both of which we consolidate, pursuant to an arrangement we entered into with a nationally recognized private developer of MOBs and
healthcare facilities in 2008. That arrangement gave us the exclusive right, as part of a joint venture, to develop up to ten identified MOBs on hospital campuses in eight states.

Pending Acquisition

In December 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Cogdell Spencer Inc. ("Cogdell"), including its 100% ownership
interest in 72 MOBs and its MOB property management business, which has existing agreements to manage 44 MOBs, in an all-cash transaction. At closing, we expect our investment in Cogdell,
including our share of debt, to approximate $760 million to $770 million, before anticipated transaction expenses.

Pursuant
to the terms of and subject to the conditions set forth in the agreement, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of Cogdell common stock and each
outstanding unit of limited partnership interest in Cogdell's operating partnership, Cogdell Spencer LP, will be converted into the right to receive $4.25 per share (or unit), and each
outstanding share of Cogdell's preferred stock will be converted into the right to receive $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the closing. Cogdell has also reached an agreement
pursuant to which, prior to the closing, Cogdell will sell its design-build and development business to an unaffiliated third party. Completion of the transaction is subject to approval of Cogdell's
stockholders, the sale of Cogdell's design-build and development business and certain other customary closing conditions. We expect to complete the Cogdell transaction in the second quarter of 2012,
although we cannot provide any assurance as to whether or when the transaction will occur.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property (Continued)

Unaudited Pro Forma

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if we had consummated the ASLG and NHP acquisitions
as of January 1, 2010:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



(In thousands, except per

share amounts)

Revenues

$

2,256,319

$

2,178,897

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

583,446

321,637

Earnings per common share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

2.03

$

1.14

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

2.02

$

1.14

Weighted average shares used in computing earnings per common share:

Basic

286,856

281,333

Diluted

289,193

282,382

Acquisition-related
costs related to the ASLG and NHP acquisitions are not expected to have a continuing significant impact on our financial results and therefore have been excluded from
these pro forma results. The pro forma results also do not include the impact of any synergies or lower
borrowing costs that we have or may achieve as a result of the acquisitions or any strategies that management has or may consider in order to continue to efficiently manage our operations, nor do they
give pro forma effect to any other acquisitions, investments, dispositions or capital markets transactions that we completed during the periods presented. These pro forma results are not necessarily
indicative of the operating results that would have been obtained had the ASLG and NHP acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the periods presented, nor are they necessarily indicative of future
operating results.

Note 5—Dispositions

We present separately, as discontinued operations, in all periods presented the results of operations for all assets held for sale or disposed of during the three-year period
ended December 31, 2011.

2011 Dispositions

During 2011, we sold two seniors housing communities and two skilled nursing facilities to tenants exercising purchase options for
aggregate consideration of $20.6 million. We recognized no gain or loss from these sales. Also, as of December 31, 2011, we classified fifteen properties as held for sale and included
their operations in discontinued operations in our Consolidated Income Statements. In February 2012, we sold nine seniors housing communities for aggregate consideration of $121.3 million,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 5—Dispositions (Continued)

including
a lease termination fee of $1.8 million. A portion of the proceeds from the sale are being held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary.
During the first quarter of 2012, we expect to recognize a gain from the sale of these assets.

2010 Dispositions

During 2010, we sold seven seniors housing communities for aggregate consideration of $60.5 million, including lease termination fees
of $0.7 million, and recognized a gain from these sales of $17.3 million.

2009 Dispositions

In June 2009, we sold six skilled nursing facilities to Kindred for total consideration of $58.0 million, consisting of an aggregate
sale price of $55.7 million and a $2.3 million lease termination fee. The proceeds from the sale were held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified
intermediary and used for our acquisition of three MOBs in December 2009. We recognized a gain from the sale of these assets of $39.3 million in 2009.

During
2009, we also sold five seniors housing communities, one hospital, one MOB and one other property to the existing tenants for an aggregate sale price of $96.2 million and
transferred related debt of $38.8 million. We recognized a net gain from the sales of these assets of $27.5 million in 2009.

Set
forth below is a summary of the results of operations of properties sold during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 or classified as held for sale as of
December 31, 2011, all of which were included in our triple-net leased properties segment, with the exception of one MOB we sold during 2009 and one MOB classified as held for sale
as of December 31, 2011.




(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

10,071

$

11,466

$

16,230

Interest and other income

—


2,423

10,071

12,191

18,653

Expenses:

Interest

5,250

4,287

5,926

Depreciation and amortization

3,114

2,302

3,960

Property-level operating expenses


—

—

8,388

6,589

9,886

Income before gain on sale of real estate assets

1,683

5,602

8,767

Gain on sale of real estate assets

—

25,241

67,305

Discontinued operations

$

1,683

$

30,843

$

76,072



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 6—Loans Receivable

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $276.2 million and $149.3 million, respectively, of net loans receivable relating to seniors housing and healthcare
companies or properties.

In
connection with the NHP acquisition, we acquired (i) mortgage loans receivable having an initial aggregate fair value of approximately $271.7 million and secured by 53
seniors housing and healthcare properties and (ii) unsecured loans receivable having an initial aggregate fair value of approximately $60.5 million.

During
2011, we made a first mortgage loan in the aggregate principal amount of $12.9 million, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 9.0% per annum and maturing in 2016.

During
2011, we received aggregate proceeds of $218.5 million in final repayment of eight secured loans receivable and recognized an aggregate gain of $4.4 million
(included in income from loans and investments in our Consolidated Statements of Income) in connection with these repayments for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Additionally,
during 2011, we received proceeds of $0.3 million in final repayment of one unsecured loan receivable and made additional advances under two existing unsecured loans
receivable in the amount of $6.7 million.

During
2010, we acquired at a 17% discount, a first mortgage loan in the principal amount of $19.0 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 9.25% per annum and maturing in
2015. During 2011, through foreclosure action, we took title to the two assets securing this mortgage loan. The carrying amount of these assets, totaling $16.0 million, approximated the fair
value of the assets at the time of
foreclosure and no gain or loss was recorded in connection with obtaining title. Operations from this property were consolidated into our consolidated financial statements during 2011.

Note 7—Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We report investments in unconsolidated entities, all of which we acquired in connection with our Lillibridge and NHP acquisitions, over whose operating and financial policies we have
the ability to exercise significant influence under the equity method of accounting. We serve as the managing member of each unconsolidated entity and provide various services in exchange for fees and
reimbursements. Total management fees earned in connection with these entities were $5.7 million, $1.9 million and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Our joint venture partners have significant participating rights, and, therefore, we are not required to consolidate these entities. Additionally, these entities are viable entities
controlled by equity holders with sufficient capital and, therefore, are not considered variable interest entities. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we owned interests (ranging between 5% and
25%) in 92 properties and interests (ranging between 5% and 20%) in 58 properties, respectively, that were accounted for under the equity method. Our net investment in these properties as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $105.3 million and $15.3 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded a loss from unconsolidated
entities of $0.1 million, $0.7 million and $0, respectively.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 8—Intangibles

The following is a summary of our intangibles as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:

December 31, 2011

December 31, 2010

Balance

Remaining

Weighted Average

Amortization

Period in Years

Balance

Remaining

Weighted Average

Amortization

Period in Years

(Dollars in thousands)

Intangible assets:

Above market lease intangibles

$

210,358

10.1

$

13,232

7.1

In-place and other lease intangibles

590,500

22.4

133,582

18.3

Other intangibles

16,169

13.5

13,649

17.1

Accumulated amortization

(188,442

)

N/A

(100,808

)

N/A

Goodwill

448,393

N/A

19,901

N/A

Net intangible assets

$

1,076,978

18.5

$

79,556

16.9

Intangible liabilities:

Below market lease intangibles

$

442,612

15.3

$

22,398

6.9

Other lease intangibles

27,157

7.9

—

—

Accumulated amortization

(37,607

)

N/A

(12,495

)

N/A

Purchase option intangibles

112,670

N/A

—

—

Net intangible liabilities

$

544,832

15.2

$

9,903

6.9

N/A—Not

Applicable.

Above
market lease intangibles and in-place and other lease intangibles are included in acquired lease intangibles within real estate investments on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Other intangibles (including non-compete agreements and trade names/trademarks) and goodwill are included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Below market lease, other lease and purchase option intangibles are included in accounts payable and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, our net amortization related to these intangibles was $62.5 million, $6.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The estimated net amortization related to these
intangibles for each of the next five years is as follows: 2012—$82.9 million; 2013—$19.2 million; 2014—$14.4 million;
2015—$10.4 million; and 2016—$6.4 million.

Note 9—Other Assets

The following is a summary of our other assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:



(In thousands)

Straight-line rent receivables, net

$

96,883

$

86,275

Marketable debt securities

43,331

66,675

Unsecured loans receivable, net

63,598

—

Goodwill and other intangibles, net

462,655

32,704

Assets held for sale

119,290

—

Other

105,475

47,968

Total other assets

$

891,232

$

233,622



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements

The following is a summary of our senior notes payable and other debt as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:



(In thousands)

Unsecured revolving credit facilities

$

455,578

$

40,000



/


% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011

—

230,000

9% Senior Notes due 2012

82,433

82,433



/


% Senior Notes due 2012

72,950

—

Unsecured term loan due 2013

200,000

200,000

6.25% Senior Notes due 2013

269,850

—

Unsecured term loan due 2015(1)

126,875

—

3.125% Senior Notes due 2015

400,000

400,000

6% Senior Notes due 2015

234,420

—



/


% Senior Notes due 2016

200,000

400,000

Unsecured term loan due 2017(1)

375,000

—



/


% Senior Notes due 2017

225,000

225,000

4.750% Senior Notes due 2021

700,000

—

6.90% Senior Notes due 2037

52,400

—

6.59% Senior Notes due 2038

22,973

—

Mortgage loans and other(2)

2,762,964

1,349,521

Total

6,180,443

2,926,954

Capital lease obligations

143,006

—

Unamortized fair value adjustment

144,923

11,790

Unamortized commission fees and discounts

(39,256

)

(38,700

)

Senior notes payable and other debt

$

6,429,116

$

2,900,044

(1)

The
aggregate amounts presented above represent the $500.0 million of borrowings oustanding under our unsecured term loan facility. Certain amounts
included in the 2015 tranche represent Canadian dollar borrowings.

(2)

The
amounts presented above exclude debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. The total mortgage debt
for these properties as of December 31, 2011 was $14.6 million, and is included in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

As
of December 31, 2011, our joint venture partners' share of total debt was $46.6 million with respect to eight properties we owned through consolidated joint ventures. As
of December 31, 2010, our joint venture partners' share of total debt was $4.8 million with respect to three properties we owned through consolidated joint ventures. Total debt does not
include our portion of debt related to investments in unconsolidated entities, which was $131.5 million and $45.9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and Unsecured Term Loans

We have $2.0 billion of aggregate borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility, which may be increased to up
to $2.5 billion at our option, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, and includes sublimits of (a) up to $200 million for letters of credit, (b) up to
$200 million for swingline loans, (c) up to $250 million for loans in certain alternative currencies, and (d) up to 50% of the facility for certain negotiated rate loans.
Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum (based on the applicable LIBOR for Eurocurrency rate loans and the higher of (i) the
federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the administrative agent's prime rate and (iii) the applicable LIBOR plus 1.0% for base rate loans, plus, in each case, a spread based on our senior
unsecured long-term debt ratings). At December 31, 2011, the applicable spread was 110 basis points for Eurocurrency rate loans and 10 basis points for base rate loans. We also pay
a facility fee ranging from 15 to 45 basis points per annum (based on our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings) on the aggregate revolving commitments under our unsecured revolving
credit facility. At December 31, 2011, the facility fee was 17.5 basis points. Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility mature on October 16, 2015, but may be extended
for an additional period of one year at our option, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.

Our
unsecured revolving credit facility imposes certain customary restrictions on us, including restrictions pertaining to: (i) liens; (ii) investments; (iii) the
incurrence of additional indebtedness; (iv) mergers, sales of assets and dissolutions; (v) certain dividend, distribution and other payments; (vi) permitted businesses;
(vii) transactions with affiliates; (viii) agreements limiting certain liens; and (ix) the maintenance of certain consolidated total leverage, secured debt leverage, unsecured
leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios and minimum consolidated adjusted net worth, and contains customary events of default.

At
December 31, 2011, we had $455.6 million of borrowings outstanding, $8.3 million of outstanding letters of credit and $1.54 billion of available borrowing
capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility. We also recognized a $2.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011,
representing the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees from our previous unsecured revolving credit facilities.

In
December 2011, we entered into a new $500.0 million unsecured term loan facility with a weighted average maturity of 4.5 years, priced at LIBOR plus 125 basis points.
The term loan facility consists of a three-year tranche and a five-year tranche and includes an accordion feature that permits us to expand our borrowing capacity to up to
$900.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Borrowings under the term loan facility may be made in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars. Concurrently with the closing of the
term loan facility, we terminated the commitments under an $800.0 million term loan priced at LIBOR plus 150 basis points and scheduled to mature in June 2012, that was previously
extended to NHP and assumed by us in connection with the NHP acquisition.

In
September 2010, we entered into a $200.0 million three-year unsecured term loan with Bank of America, N.A., as lender. The term loan is non-amortizing
and bears interest at an all-in fixed rate of 4% per annum.

Each
of the term loan facility and the term loan contains the same restrictive covenants as our unsecured revolving credit facility.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

Convertible Senior Notes

In November 2011, we repaid in full $230.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 3


/


% convertible senior
notes due 2011 upon maturity. In accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes, we paid the principal amount of the notes and accrued but unpaid interest thereon in cash
and issued an aggregate of 943,714 shares of our common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. The conversion rate of the convertible notes had been subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of certain quarterly dividends in excess of a reference amount. To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeded the conversion
price, our earnings per share were diluted. The convertible notes had a minimal dilutive impact per share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. See
"Note 15—Earnings Per Share."

Senior Notes

As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued by our subsidiaries,
Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Ventas Issuers") outstanding. Prior to 2009, we issued $200.0 million principal amount of our 6


/


% senior notes
due 2016 at a


/


% discount to par value, $200.0 million principal amount of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2017 at a


/


% discount to par value and
$50.0 million principal amount of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2014 at a 1% discount to par value. As of December 31, 2011, we also had outstanding $652.6 million
aggregate principal amount of senior notes that were issued by NHP and assumed by our subsidiary, Nationwide Health Properties, LLC ("NHP LLC"), in connection with the NHP acquisition.

In
February 2012, we issued and sold $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2022, at a public offering price equal to 99.214% of par for total
proceeds of $595.3 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.

Also
in February 2012, we exercised our option to redeem all $200.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 pursuant to the terms of
the indenture governing the notes. We will pay a total of $206.5 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on the redemption date and expect to recognize a loss on extinguishment of debt in
the first quarter of 2012.

In
July 2011, we repaid in full, at par, $339.0 million principal amount then outstanding of NHP LLC's 6.50% senior notes due 2011 upon maturity. NHP LLC's remaining
senior notes outstanding bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 6.00% to 8.25% per annum and have maturity dates ranging from July 1, 2012 to July 7, 2038, subject in certain cases to
earlier repayment at the option of the holders.

Also,
in July 2011, we redeemed $200.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2016, at a redemption price equal to 103.25% of par, plus
accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of $206.5 million, plus accrued and
unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $8.7 million in the third quarter of 2011.

In
May 2011, we issued and sold $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021, at a public offering price equal to 99.132% of par, for total proceeds
of $693.9 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

In
November 2010, we issued and sold $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% senior notes due 2015, at a public offering price equal to 99.528% of par, for total
proceeds of $398.1 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses.

In
October 2010, we redeemed all $71.7 million principal amount outstanding of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2014, at a redemption price equal to 102.21% of par, plus
accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of $73.3 million, plus accrued and
unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $2.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2010.

In
June 2010, we redeemed all $142.7 million principal amount outstanding of our 7


/


% senior notes due 2015, at a redemption price equal to 103.56% of par, plus
accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, pursuant to the call option contained in the indenture governing the notes. As a result, we paid a total of $147.8 million, plus accrued and
unpaid interest, on the redemption date and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $6.4 million during the second quarter of 2010.

In
May 2010, we repaid in full, at par, $1.4 million principal amount then outstanding of our 6


/


% senior notes due 2010 upon maturity.

During
2009, we issued and sold $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 at a 15


/


% discount to par value, for total
proceeds of $168.5 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses. We also repaid in full, at par, $49.8 million principal amount outstanding of our 8


/


% senior
notes due 2009 upon maturity, and purchased in open market transactions and/or through cash tender offers $361.6 million of our senior notes composed of: $121.6 million principal amount
of our outstanding 6


/


% senior notes due 2010; $109.4 million principal amount of our outstanding 9% senior notes due 2012; $103.3 million principal amount of our
outstanding 6


/


% senior notes due 2014; and $27.3 million principal amount of our outstanding 7


/


% senior notes due 2015. We recognized a loss on extinguishment
of debt of $6.1 million related to these purchases.

All
of the Ventas Issuers' senior notes are unconditionally guaranteed by Ventas. In addition, at the time of their original issuance, all of the Ventas Issuers' senior notes issued
prior to November 2010 were unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. In September 2010, the subsidiary
guarantees on the Ventas Issuers' then outstanding senior notes (other than the 9% senior notes due 2012) were released pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the notes. The Ventas Issuers'
senior notes are part of our and the Ventas Issuers' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the Ventas Issuers' existing and future senior obligations and
ranking senior to all of our and the Ventas Issuers' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Ventas Issuers' senior notes are effectively subordinated to our and the Ventas
Issuers' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Ventas Issuers' senior notes are also structurally subordinated to the preferred equity
and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries.

NHP LLC's
senior notes are part of NHP LLC's general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of NHP LLC's existing and future senior
obligations and ranking senior to all of NHP LLC's existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, NHP LLC's senior notes are effectively subordinated to NHP LLC's secured
indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. NHP LLC's senior notes are also structurally subordinated to the preferred equity and indebtedness,
whether secured or unsecured, of its subsidiaries.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

The Ventas Issuers may redeem each series of their senior notes and NHP LLC may redeem each series of its senior notes (other than the 6.90% senior notes due 2037 and the 6.59%
senior notes due 2038), in whole at any time or in part from time to time, prior to maturity at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid
interest thereon to the redemption date.

NHP LLC's
6.90% senior notes due 2037 are subject to repurchase at the option of the holders, at par, on October 1 of each of 2012, 2017 and 2027, and NHP LLC's
6.59% senior notes due 2038 are subject to repurchase at the option of the holders, at par, on July 7 of each of 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028.

If
we experience certain kinds of changes of control, the Ventas Issuers must make an offer to repurchase their 9% senior notes due 2012, 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 and


/


% senior notes due 2017, in whole or in part, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
purchase; provided, however, that in the event Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") have confirmed their ratings at Ba3 or higher and
BB- or higher on the senior notes and certain other conditions are met, this repurchase obligation will not apply.

Mortgages

At December 31, 2011, we had 273 mortgage loans outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $2.8 billion and secured
by 228 of our properties. Of these loans, 244 loans in the aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.4% to 8.6% per annum, and 29 loans in the
aggregate principal amount of $414.6 million bear interest at variable rates ranging from 0.6% to 7.3% per annum as of December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011,
the weighted average annual rate on our fixed rate mortgage loans was 6.1%, and the weighted average annual rate on our variable rate mortgage loans was 2.0%. Our mortgage loans had a weighted average
maturity of 5.8 years as of December 31, 2011.

During
2011, we assumed mortgage debt of $1.6 billion, including $1.2 billion and $442 million, respectively, in connection with the ASLG and NHP acquisitions.

In
February 2011, we repaid in full mortgage loans outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $307.2 million and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of
$16.5 million in connection with these repayments in the first quarter of 2011.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

Scheduled Maturities of Borrowing Arrangements and Other Provisions

As of December 31, 2011, our indebtedness (excluding capital lease obligations) had the following maturities:

Principal Amount

Due at Maturity

Unsecured

Revolving Credit

Facility(1)

Scheduled Periodic

Amortization

Total Maturities

(In thousands)

2012(2)

$

267,044

$

—

$

52,273

$

319,317


921,890

—

46,455

968,345


237,648

—

41,993

279,641


985,647

455,578

34,163

1,475,388


544,370

—

27,689

572,059

Thereafter(2)(3)

2,395,088

—

170,605

2,565,693

Total maturities

$

5,351,687

$

455,578

$

373,178

$

6,180,443

(1)

At
December 31, 2011, we had $45.8 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, for $409.8 million of net borrowings outstanding
under our unsecured revolving credit facility.

(2)

The
amounts presented above exclude debt related to real estate assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2011. The total mortgage debt
for these properties as of December 31, 2011 was $14.6 million and is scheduled to mature as follows: $5.7 million in 2012 and $8.9 million thereafter.

(3)

Includes
$52.4 million aggregate principal amount of NHP LLC's 6.90% senior notes due 2037, which are subject to repurchase, at the option of
the holders, on October 1 of each of 2012, 2017 and 2027, and $23.0 million aggregate principal amount of NHP LLC's 6.59% senior notes due 2038, which are subject to repurchase,
at the option of the holders, on July 7 of each of 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028.

The
instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: (i) incur
debt; (ii) make certain dividends, distributions and investments; (iii) enter into certain transactions; (iv) merge, consolidate or transfer certain assets; and (v) sell
assets. At any time we maintain investment grade ratings by both Moody's and S&P, the indentures governing certain series of the Ventas Issuers' senior notes provide that some of these restrictive
covenants will either be suspended or fall away. The Ventas Issuers' senior notes also require us and our subsidiaries to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured debt. Our
unsecured revolving credit facility and term loans also require us to maintain certain financial covenants pertaining to, among other things, our consolidated leverage, secured debt, fixed charge
coverage and net worth.

As
of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of these covenants.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements (Continued)

Derivatives and Hedging

In the normal course of our business, we are exposed to the effects of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable
rate debt obligations and foreign currency exchange rate movements on our senior living operations. We follow established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivative
instruments, to mitigate these risks.

For
interest rate exposures, we use derivatives primarily to fix the rate on our variable rate debt and to manage the cost of our borrowing obligations. We prohibit the use of derivative
instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and we have a policy of entering into contracts only with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When
considered together with the underlying exposure that the derivative is designed to hedge, we do not expect that the use of derivatives in this manner would have any material adverse effect on our
future net income or financial position.

Capital Leases

As of December 31, 2011, we leased eight seniors housing communities pursuant to arrangements we assumed in connection with the
ASLG acquisition that are accounted for as capital leases. Under each capital lease agreement, rent is subject to increase based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index or gross revenues attributable
to the property, subject to certain limits, and we have a bargain option to purchase the leased property and an option to exercise renewal terms.

Future
minimum lease payments required under the capital lease agreements, including amounts that would be due under purchase options, as of December 31, 2011 are as follows (in
thousands):


$

9,446


9,573


9,699


9,826


9,953

Thereafter

162,600

Total minimum lease payments

211,097

Less: Amount related to interest

(68,091

)

$

143,006

Net
assets held under capital leases are included in net real estate investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $224.7 million and $0 as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively.

Unamortized Fair Value Adjustment

As of December 31, 2011, the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the long-term debt we assumed in
connection with various acquisitions was $144.9 million and will be recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instruments. The
estimated aggregate amortization of the fair value adjustment related to long-term debt (reduction of interest expense) for each of the next five years is as follows:
2012—$54.0 million; 2013—$29.3 million; 2014—$23.3 million; 2015—$12.5 million; and 2016—$6.9 million.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 11—Fair Values of Financial Instruments

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments were as follows:



Carrying

Amount

Fair Value

Carrying

Amount

Fair Value

(In thousands)

Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

45,807

$

45,807

$

21,812

$

21,812

Secured loans receivable, net

212,577

216,315

149,263

155,377

Derivative instruments





Marketable debt securities

43,331

43,331

66,675

66,675

Unsecured loans receivable, net

63,598

65,219

—

—

Liabilities:

Senior notes payable and other debt, gross

6,180,443

6,637,691

2,926,954

3,055,435

Derivative instruments and other liabilities

80,815

80,815

3,722

3,722

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

102,837

102,837

—

—

Fair
value estimates are subjective in nature and depend upon several important assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows, risks, discount rates and relevant comparable
market information associated with each financial instrument. The use of different market assumptions and estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the reported estimated fair value
amounts. Accordingly, the estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts we would realize in a current market exchange.

At
December 31, 2011, we held corporate marketable debt securities, classified as available-for-sale and included within other assets on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets, having an aggregate amortized cost basis and fair value of $41.2 million and $43.3 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010, our marketable debt securities had
an aggregate amortized cost basis and fair value of $61.9 million and $66.7 million, respectively. The contractual maturities of our current marketable debt securities range from
October 1, 2012 to April 15, 2016. During 2011, we sold certain marketable debt securities for $23.1 million in proceeds and recognized aggregate gains from these sales of
approximately $1.8 million (included in income from loans and investments in our Consolidated Statements of Income).

Note 12—Stock-Based Compensation

Compensation Plans

We have: four plans under which outstanding options to purchase common stock and/or shares or units of restricted stock have been, or
may be, granted to officers, employees and non-employee directors (the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan), the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors, the 2006 Incentive Plan, and the
2006 Stock Plan for Directors); one plan under which executive officers may receive common stock in lieu of compensation (the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan); and two plans under which
certain directors have received or may receive common stock in lieu of director fees (the Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors (the "Directors Stock Purchase Plan") and the Nonemployee Directors'
Deferred Stock Compensation Plan). These plans are referred to collectively as the "Plans."



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 12—Stock-Based Compensation (Continued)

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we were permitted to make option, restricted stock and restricted stock unit grants and stock issuances only under the Executive Deferred
Stock Compensation Plan, the Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the 2006 Incentive Plan and the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

The
number of shares initially reserved for issuance and the number of shares available for future grants or issuance under these Plans as of December 31, 2011 were as
follows:

•

Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan—500,000 shares were reserved initially for issuance to our
executive officers in lieu of the payment of all or a portion of their salary, at their option, and 500,000 shares were available for future issuance as of December 31, 2011.

•

Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan—500,000 shares were reserved initially for issuance to
nonemployee directors in lieu of the payment of all or a portion of their retainer and meeting fees, at their option, and 443,135 shares were available for future issuance as of December 31,
2011.

•

2006 Incentive Plan—5,000,000 shares were reserved initially for grants or issuance to employees, and
1,905,338 shares were available for future grants or issuance as of December 31, 2011. This plan replaced the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan).

•

2006 Stock Plan for Directors—400,000 shares were reserved initially for grants or issuance to
non-employee directors and 165,313 shares were available for future grants or issuance as of December 31, 2011. This plan replaced the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors.

Under
the Plans that provide for the issuance of stock options, outstanding options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, expire ten years from the date of grant, and
vest over periods of two or three years. Vesting of certain options may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other specified events.

In
connection with the NHP acquisition, we assumed certain outstanding options, shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units previously issued to NHP employees pursuant to the
Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (the "NHP Plan"). The outstanding awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the NHP Plan and
the applicable award agreements.

Stock Options

In determining the estimated fair value of our stock options as of the date of grant, we used the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following assumptions:




Risk-free interest rate

1.22 - 2.78

%

2.00 - 3.45

%

1.37 - 2.32

%

Dividend yield

6.75

%

6.75

%

5.75

%

Volatility factors of the expected market price for our common stock

35.7 - 44.3

%

37.1 - 44.6

%

36.1 - 42.7

%

Weighted average expected life of options

4.25 - 7.0 years

4.25 - 7.0 years

3.5 - 6.0 years



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 12—Stock-Based Compensation (Continued)

The
following is a summary of stock option activity in 2011:

Activity

Shares

Range of Exercise

Prices

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life (years)

Intrinsic

Value

($000's)

Outstanding as of December 31, 2010

1,656,558

$

11.34 - $45.26

$

38.12

Options granted

376,451

52.48 -  57.19

53.64

Options assumed from NHP

108,785

48.60 -  48.60

48.60

Options exercised

(94,789

)

11.34 -  48.60

26.00

Options canceled

—

—

—

Outstanding as of December 31, 2011

2,047,005

11.45 -  57.19

42.10

6.9

$

26,734

Exercisable as of December 31, 2011

1,685,965

$

11.45 - $57.19

$

40.22

6.5

$

25,158

Compensation
costs for all share-based awards are based on the grant date fair value and are recognized on a straight-line basis during the requisite service
periods. Compensation costs related to stock options for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $4.2 million, $3.1 million and $2.9 million, respectively.

A
summary of the status of our nonvested stock options as of December 31, 2011 and changes during the year then ended follows:

Activity

Shares

Weighted Average

Grant Date Fair

Value

Nonvested at beginning of year

340,203

$

8.33

Granted

376,451

11.17

Assumed from NHP

108,785

9.93

Vested

(464,399

)

9.12

Forfeited

—

—

Nonvested at end of year

361,040

$

10.76

As
of December 31, 2011, we had $1.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options granted under the Plans and
$0.1 million in total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested options assumed in the NHP acquisition. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average period of one year.
Proceeds received from options exercised under the Plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $2.5 million, $10.9 million and $2.2 million,
respectively.

Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units

We recognize the market value of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units on the date of the award as stock-based
compensation expense over the service period, with charges to general and administrative expenses of approximately $15.1 million in 2011, $11.0 million in 2010 and $9.0 million in
2009. Restricted stock and restricted stock units generally vest over periods ranging from two to five years. The vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units may accelerate upon a change of
control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other specified events.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 12—Stock-Based Compensation (Continued)

A summary of the status of our nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock units as of December 31, 2011, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2011 follows:

Restricted

Stock

Weighted

Average

Grant Date

Fair Value

Restricted

Stock Units

Weighted

Average

Grant Date

Fair Value

Nonvested at December 31, 2010

493,967

$

43.10

4,690

$

39.28

Granted

393,764

53.33

2,050

52.48

Assumed from NHP

1,337

53.74

41,495

53.74

Vested

(281,090

)

42.29

(14,946

)

50.08

Forfeited

(15,780

)

51.22

—

—

Nonvested at December 31, 2011

592,198

$

50.09

33,289

$

53.27

As
of December 31, 2011, we had $19.5 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock units under the Plans and
$0.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock units assumed in the NHP acquistion. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted
average period of 3.1 years.

Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan

We have in effect an Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") under which our employees and directors may purchase shares of
our common stock at a discount. Pursuant to the terms of the ESPP, on each purchase date, participants may purchase shares of common stock at a price not less than 90% of the market price on that date
(with respect to the employee tax-favored portion of the plan) and not less than 95% of the market price on that date (with respect to the additional employee and director portion of the
plan). We initially reserved 2,500,000 shares for issuance under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2011, 44,238 shares had been purchased under the ESPP and 2,455,762 shares were available for
future issuance.

Employee Benefit Plan

We maintain a 401(K) plan that allows eligible employees to defer compensation subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. In
2011, 2010 and 2009, we made contributions for each qualifying employee of up to 3% of his or her salary, subject to certain limitations, regardless of the employee's individual contribution. During
2011, 2010 and 2009, our aggregate contributions were approximately $267,000, $200,000 and $189,000, respectively.

Note 13—Income Taxes

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with the year ended December 31, 1999. We have also elected for certain of our subsidiaries to be treated as
taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS" or "TRS entities"), which are subject to federal and state income taxes. All entities other than the TRS entities are collectively referred to as "the REIT" within
this Note 13.

Although
we intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to enable us to qualify as a REIT, our actual qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet, on a
continuing basis, distribution levels, stock ownership and various qualification tests. During the years ended



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 13—Income Taxes (Continued)

December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, our tax treatment of distributions per common share was as follows:




Tax treatment of distributions:

Ordinary income

$

2.28131

$

1.99928

$

1.8356

Long-term capital gain

0.01869

0.07644

0.1510

Unrecaptured Section 1250 gain

—

0.06428

0.0634

Distribution reported for 1099-DIV purposes

2.30000

2.14000

2.0500

Less: Dividend declared in prior year and taxable in current year

—

—

—

Distributions declared per common share outstanding

$

2.30000

$

2.14000

$

2.0500

We
believe we have met the annual REIT distribution requirement by payment of at least 90% of our estimated taxable income for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our consolidated provision (benefit)
for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:




(In thousands)

Current

$

(4,080

)

$

2,459

$

2,166

Deferred

(27,057

)

2,742

(3,885

)

Total

$

(31,137

)

$

5,201

$

(1,719

)

The
benefit for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily relates to the reversal of certain income tax contingency reserves, including interest, and the deferred tax liabilities
established for the ASLG acquisition. The statute of limitations with respect to our 2007 U.S. federal income tax returns expired in September 2011. We did not recognize any income tax expense as a
result of the litigation proceeds that we received in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, as no income taxes are payable on these proceeds.

The
deferred tax expense/benefit for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was adjusted by income tax expense of $0 million, $2.3 million and
$1.7 million, respectively, related to the noncontrolling interest share of net income. For the tax year ended December 31, 2011, the Canadian income tax expense included in the
consolidated benefit for income taxes was $0.5 million. For the tax years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Canadian income tax benefit included in the consolidated benefit for
income taxes was $0.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively.

Although
the TRS entities were not liable for any cash federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2011, their federal income tax liabilities may increase in future years
as we exhaust net
operating loss carryforwards and as our senior living operations and MOB operations reportable segments grow. Such increases could be significant.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 13—Income Taxes (Continued)

A
reconciliation of income tax expense, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, to the income tax
benefit is as follows:




(In thousands)

Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interest and income taxes

$

115,673

$

78,663

$

67,049

State income taxes, net of federal benefit

(2,396

)


(126

)

Increase in valuation allowance

9,408

5,705

7,713

(Decrease) increase in ASC 740 income tax liability

(4,084

)

2,420

2,166

Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes

(151,429

)

(82,490

)

(78,176

)

Other differences

1,691


(345

)

Income tax (benefit) expense

$

(31,137

)

$

5,201

$

(1,719

)

The
REIT made no income tax payments for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.

In
connection with the Sunrise REIT and ASLG acquisitions, we established a beginning net deferred tax liability of $306.3 million and $44.6 million, respectively, related
to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities acquired (primarily property, intangible and related assets, net of net operating loss carryforwards).
No net deferred tax asset or liability was recorded for the Lillibridge acquisition.

Each
TRS is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards included in the net
deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized as follows:




(In thousands)

Property, primarily differences in depreciation and amortization, the tax basis of land assets and the treatment of interests and certain
costs

$

(332,111

)

$

(287,165

)

$

(293,800

)

Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards

343,843

103,733

86,014

Expense accruals and other

11,511

3,093

(58

)

Valuation allowance

(281,954

)

(60,994

)

(45,821

)

Net deferred tax liabilities(1)

$

(258,711

)

$

(241,333

)

$

(253,665

)

(1)

includes approximately $2 million of deferred tax assets included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Our
net deferred tax liability increased $17.4 million during 2011 due primarily to the initial deferred tax liability related to the ASLG acquisition. Our net deferred tax
liability decreased $12.3 million during 2010 due primarily to the purchase of Sunrise's noncontrolling interests in 58 of our seniors housing communities. See
"Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property."

Due
to our uncertainty regarding the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have established valuation allowances, the majority of which relate to the net operating loss
("NOL") carryforward related to the REIT.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 13—Income Taxes (Continued)

We
are subject to corporate level taxes for any asset dispositions during the ten-year period immediately after the assets were owned by a C corporation (either prior to our
REIT election, through stock acquisition or merger) ("built-in gains tax"). The amount of income potentially subject to built-in gains tax is generally equal to the lesser of
the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset or the actual amount of gain. Some, but not all, future gains could be offset by available
NOLs.

Generally,
we are subject to audit under the statute of limitations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the year ended December 31, 2008 and subsequent years and are
subject to audit by state taxing authorities for the year ended December 31, 2007 and subsequent years. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency ("CRA") and provincial
authorities generally for periods subsequent to 2006 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with our Sunrise REIT acquisition.

At
December 31, 2011, we had a combined NOL carryforward of $240 million related to the TRS entities and an NOL carryforward related to the REIT of $690 million
(including carryforwards related to Lillibridge entities of $10.4 million and $16.2 million, respectively). The REIT NOL carryforward increased from 2010 by $38.7 million and
$543.8 million due to the NHP and ASLG acquisitions, respectively. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit determines that
tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for
dividends paid. Lillibridge and ASLG NOL carryforwards are limited as to their utilization by Section 382 of the Code. The NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2024 with respect to the TRS
entities and in 2016 for the REIT.

As
a result of our uncertainty regarding the use of existing REIT NOLs, we have not ascribed any net deferred tax benefit to REIT NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2011 and
2010. The IRS may challenge our entitlement to these tax attributes during its review of the tax returns for the previous tax years. We believe we are entitled to these tax attributes, but we cannot
provide any assurance as to the outcome of these matters.

The
following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits:



(In thousands)

Balance as of January 1

$

17,868

$

15,444

Additions to tax positions related to the current year

2,961

2,424

Additions to tax positions related to prior years


—

Subtractions to tax positions related to prior years

(6,425

)

—

Balance as of December 31

$

14,894

$

17,868

Included
in the unrecognized tax benefits of $14.9 million and $17.9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, was $14.6 million and
$17.3 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We accrued no penalties. Interest of $0.5 million related to the unrecognized tax benefits
was accrued during 2011. We expect our unrecognized tax benefits to increase by $3 million during 2012.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies

Certain Obligations, Liabilities and Litigation

We may be subject to various obligations, liabilities and litigation assumed in connection with or arising out of our acquisitions or
otherwise arising in connection with our business. Some of these liabilities may be indemnified by third parties. However, if these liabilities are greater than expected or were not known to us at the
time of acquisition, if we are not entitled to indemnification, or if the responsible third party fails to indemnify us for these liabilities, such obligations, liabilities and litigation could have a
Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, in connection with the sale or leasing of our properties, we may incur various obligations and liabilities, including indemnification obligations, relating
to the operations of those properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Other

We are subject to certain operating and ground lease obligations that generally require fixed monthly or annual rent payments and may
also include escalation clauses and renewal options. These leases have terms that expire during the next 89 years, excluding extension options. Our future minimum lease obligations under
non-cancelable operating and ground leases as of December 31, 2011 were $17.6 million in 2012, $16.5 million in 2013, $15.8 million in 2014,
$14.0 million in 2015, $13.9 million in 2016, and $322.5 million thereafter.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 15—Earnings Per Share

The following table shows the amounts used in computing our basic and diluted earnings per common share:

For the Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

362,810

$

215,324

$

190,423

Discontinued operations

1,683

30,843

76,072

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

364,493

$

246,167

$

266,495

Denominator:

Denominator for basic earnings per share—weighted average shares

228,453

156,608

152,566

Effect of dilutive securities:

Stock options




Restricted stock awards




OP units


—

—

Convertible notes




Denominator for diluted earnings per share—adjusted weighted average shares

230,790

157,657

152,758

Basic earnings per share:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

1.59

$

1.37

$

1.25

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.20

0.50

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.60

$

1.57

$

1.75

Diluted earnings per share:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

1.57

$

1.36

$

1.24

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.20

$

0.50

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.58

$

1.56

$

1.74

There
were 309,650, 0 and 975,500 anti-dilutive options outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Note 16—Litigation

Litigation Relating to the Sunrise REIT Acquisition

On May 3, 2007, we filed a lawsuit against HCP, Inc. ("HCP") in the United States District Court for the Western District
of Kentucky (the "District Court"), entitled

Ventas, Inc. v. HCP, Inc.

, Case No. 07-cv-238-JGH.
We asserted claims of tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective business advantage. Our complaint alleged that HCP interfered with our purchase agreement to
acquire the assets and liabilities of Sunrise REIT and with the process for unitholder



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16—Litigation (Continued)

consideration
of the purchase agreement. The complaint alleged, among other things, that HCP made certain improper and misleading public statements and/or offers to acquire Sunrise REIT and that HCP's
actions caused us to suffer substantial damages, including, among other things, the payment of materially greater consideration to acquire Sunrise REIT resulting from the substantial increase in the
purchase price above the original contract price necessary to obtain unitholder approval and increased costs associated with the delay in closing the acquisition, including increased costs to finance
the transaction as a result of the delay.

HCP
brought counterclaims against us alleging misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Sunrise REIT related to its sale process, claiming that we were responsible for those
actions as successor. HCP sought compensatory and punitive damages. On March 25, 2009, the District Court granted us judgment on the pleadings against all counterclaims brought by HCP and
dismissed HCP's counterclaims with prejudice.

On
July 16, 2009, the District Court denied HCP's summary judgment motion as to our claim for tortious interference with business advantage, permitting us to present that claim
against HCP at trial. The District Court granted HCP's motion for summary judgment as to our claim for tortious interference with contract and dismissed that claim. The District Court also ruled that
we could not seek to recover a portion of our alleged damages.

On
September 4, 2009, the jury unanimously held that HCP tortiously interfered with our business expectation to acquire Sunrise REIT at the agreed price by employing significantly
wrongful means such as fraudulent misrepresentation, deceit and coercion. The jury awarded us $101.6 million in compensatory damages, which is the full amount of damages the District Court
permitted us to seek at trial. The District Court entered judgment on the jury's verdict on September 8, 2009.

On
November 17, 2009, HCP appealed the District Court's judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (the "Sixth Circuit"). HCP argued that the judgment
against it should be vacated and the case remanded for a new trial and/or that judgment should be entered in its favor as a matter of law. On November 24, 2009, we filed a cross-appeal to the
Sixth Circuit.

On
May 17, 2011, the Sixth Circuit unanimously affirmed the $101.6 million jury verdict in our favor and ruled that we were entitled to seek punitive damages against HCP
for its intentionally wrongful conduct. The Sixth Circuit also denied our appeal seeking additional compensatory damages and pre-judgment interest.

On
July 5, 2011, the Sixth Circuit issued a mandate terminating the appellate proceedings and transferring jurisdiction back to the District Court for the enforcement of the
$101.6 million compensatory damages award and the trial for punitive damages.

On
August 23, 2011, HCP paid us $102.8 million for the judgment plus certain costs and interest.

On
November 9, 2011, HCP paid us an additional $125.0 million in final settlement of our outstanding litigation against HCP. As part of the settlement, both parties agreed
to dismissals of their cases, appeals and petitions, and all aspects of the litigation were terminated.

After
certain fees and expenses, the contingent fee for our outside legal counsel and donations to the Ventas Charitable Foundation, we recognized approximately $202.3 million in
net proceeds from the compensatory damages award and the final settlement in our Consolidated Statements of Income.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16—Litigation (Continued)

Litigation Relating to the NHP Acquisition

In the weeks following the announcement of our acquisition of NHP on February 28, 2011, purported stockholders of NHP filed
seven lawsuits against NHP and its directors. Six of these lawsuits also named Ventas, Inc. as a defendant and five named our subsidiary, Needles Acquisition LLC, as a defendant. The
purported stockholder plaintiffs commenced these actions in two jurisdictions: the Superior Court of the State of California, Orange County (the "California State Court"); and the Circuit Court for
Baltimore City, Maryland (the "Maryland State Court"). All of these actions were brought as putative class actions, and two also purport to assert derivative claims on behalf of NHP. All of these
stockholder complaints allege that NHP's directors breached certain alleged duties to NHP's stockholders by approving the merger agreement with us, and certain complaints allege that NHP aided and
abetted those breaches. Those complaints that name Ventas, Inc. and Needles Acquisition LLC allege that we aided and abetted the purported breaches of certain alleged duties by NHP's
directors. All of the complaints request an injunction of the merger. Certain of the complaints also seek damages.

In
the California State Court, the following actions were filed purportedly on behalf of NHP stockholders: on February 28, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Palma v. Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., et
al

.; on March 3, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Barker v.
Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., et al.

; and on March 3, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Davis v. Nationwide Health
Properties, Inc., et al.

, which was subsequently amended on March 11, 2011 under the caption

Davids v. Nationwide Health
Properties, Inc., et al

. Each action names NHP and members of the NHP board of directors as defendants. The

Barker

and

Davids

actions also name Ventas, Inc. as a defendant, and the

Davids

action names Needles
Acquisition LLC as a defendant. Each complaint alleges, among other things, that NHP's directors breached certain alleged duties by approving the merger agreement between us and NHP because the
proposed transaction purportedly fails to maximize stockholder value and provides the directors personal benefits not shared by NHP stockholders, and the

Barker

and

Davids

actions allege that we aided and abetted those purported breaches. Along with other relief, the complaints seek an injunction against the closing
of the proposed merger. On April 4, 2011, the defendants demurred and moved to stay the

Palma, Barker

, and

Davids

actions in favor of the parallel
litigation in the Maryland State Court described below. On April 27, 2011, all three actions were
consolidated pursuant to a Stipulation and Proposed Order on Consolidation of Related Actions signed by the parties on March 22, 2011. On May 12, 2011, the California State Court granted
the defendants' motion to stay.

In
the Maryland State Court, the following actions were filed purportedly on behalf of NHP stockholders: on March 7, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Crowley v. Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., et
al.

; on March 10, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Taylor
v. Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., et. al

.; on March 17, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Haughey Family
Trust

v.

Pasquale, et al.

; and on March 31, 2011, a putative class action entitled

Rappoport

v.

Pasquale, et al.

All four actions name NHP, its directors, Ventas, Inc. and Needles
Acquisition LLC as defendants. All four actions allege, among other things, that NHP's directors breached certain alleged duties by approving the merger agreement between us and NHP because the
proposed transaction purportedly fails to maximize stockholder value and provides certain directors personal benefits not shared by NHP stockholders and that we aided and abetted those purported
breaches. In addition to asserting direct claims on behalf of a putative class of NHP shareholders, the

Haughey

and

Rappoport

actions purport to bring
derivative claims on behalf of NHP, asserting breaches of certain alleged duties by NHP's directors in connection
with their approval of the proposed transaction. All four actions seek to enjoin the proposed merger, and the

Taylor

action seeks damages.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16—Litigation (Continued)

On
March 30, 2011, pursuant to stipulation of the parties, the Maryland State Court entered an order consolidating the

Crowley

,

Taylor

and

Haughey

actions. The

Rappoport

action was
consolidated with the other actions on April 15, 2011.

On
April 1, 2011, pursuant to stipulation of the parties, the Maryland State Court entered an order: (i) certifying a class of NHP shareholders; and (ii) providing
for the plaintiffs to file a consolidated amended complaint. The plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint on April 19, 2011, which the defendants moved to dismiss on
April 29, 2011. Plaintiffs opposed that motion on May 9, 2011. Plaintiffs moved for expedited discovery on April 19, 2011, and the defendants simultaneously opposed that motion
and moved for a protective order staying discovery on April 26, 2011. The Maryland State Court denied plaintiffs' motion for expedited discovery and granted defendants' motion for a protective
order on May 3, 2011. On May 6, 2011, plaintiffs moved for reconsideration of the Maryland State Court's grant of the protective order. The Maryland State Court denied the plaintiffs'
motion for reconsideration on May 11, 2011. On May 27, 2011, the Maryland State Court entered an order dismissing the consolidated action with prejudice. Plaintiffs moved for
reconsideration of that order on June 6, 2011.

On
June 9, 2011, we and NHP agreed on a settlement in principle with the plaintiffs in the consolidated action pending in Maryland State Court, which required us and NHP to make
certain supplemental disclosures to stockholders concerning the merger. We and NHP made the supplemental disclosures on June 10, 2011. The settlement is subject to appropriate documentation by
the parties and approval by the Maryland State Court.

We
believe that each of these actions is without merit.

Litigation Relating to the Cogdell Acquisition

In the weeks following the announcement of our acquisition of Cogdell on December 27, 2011, purported stockholders of Cogdell
filed seven lawsuits against Cogdell and its directors. Each of these lawsuits also named Ventas, Inc. as a defendant, and certain of the lawsuits also named our subsidiaries, TH Merger
Corp, Inc. and TH Merger Sub, LLC, as defendants. Plaintiffs commenced these actions in two jurisdictions: the Superior Court of the State of North Carolina, Mecklenburg County; and the
Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland.

Each
of these actions was brought as a putative class action and alleges that Cogdell's directors breached their fiduciary duties to Cogdell's stockholders by approving the merger
agreement with us. The complaints also allege that Ventas, Inc. and, in some cases, Cogdell, TH Merger Corp, Inc. and TH Merger Sub, LLC aided and abetted those purported
breaches. All of the complaints request an injunction of the merger, declaratory relief, attorneys' fees and costs, and other unspecified monetary relief.

We
believe that each of these actions is without merit, and the plaintiffs' claims are being vigorously contested.

Proceedings against Tenants, Operators and Managers

From time to time, Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise, Atria and our other tenants, operators and managers are parties to
certain legal actions, regulatory investigations and claims arising in the conduct of their business and operations. Even though we generally are not party to these proceedings, the unfavorable
resolution of any such actions, investigations or claims could, individually



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 16—Litigation (Continued)

or
in the aggregate, materially adversely affect such tenants', operators' or managers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations and their ability to satisfy their respective
obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Proceedings Indemnified and Defended by Third Parties

From time to time, we are party to certain legal actions, regulatory investigations and claims for which third parties are
contractually obligated to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. The tenants of our triple-net leased properties and, in some cases, their affiliates are required by the terms of their
leases and other agreements with us to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless against certain actions, investigations and claims arising in the course of their business and related to the operations
of our triple-net leased properties. In addition, third parties from whom we acquired certain of our assets are required by the terms of the related conveyance documents to indemnify,
defend and hold us harmless against certain actions, investigations and claims related to the conveyed assets and arising prior to our ownership. In some cases, we hold a portion of the purchase price
consideration in escrow as collateral for these indemnification obligations. We are presently being defended by certain tenants and other obligated third parties in these types of matters. We cannot
provide any assurance that our tenants, their affiliates or other obligated third parties will continue to defend us in these matters, that our tenants, their affiliates or other obligated third
parties will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their defense and indemnification obligations to us or that any purchase price consideration held in
escrow will be sufficient to satisfy claims for which we are entitled to indemnification. The unfavorable resolution of any such actions, investigations or claims could, individually or in the
aggregate, materially adversely affect our tenants' or other obligated third parties' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations and their ability to satisfy their respective obligations
to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Proceedings Arising in Connection with Senior Living and MOB Operations; Other Litigation

From time to time, we are party to various legal actions, regulatory investigations and claims (some of which may not be insured)
arising in connection with our senior living and MOB operations or otherwise in the course of our business. In limited circumstances, the manager of the applicable seniors housing community or MOB may
be contractually obligated to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless against such actions, investigations and claims. It is the opinion
of management that, except as otherwise set forth in this Note 16, the disposition of any such actions, investigations and claims that are currently pending will not, individually or in the
aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on us. However, regardless of their merits, these matters may force us to expend significant financial resources. We are unable to predict the ultimate
outcome of these actions, investigations and claims, and if management's assessment of our liability with respect thereto is incorrect, such actions, investigations and claims could have a Material
Adverse Effect on us.

Note 17—Capital Stock

On November 15, 2011, we issued an aggregate of 943,714 shares of our common stock in settlement of the conversion value in excess of the $230.0 million principal amount
outstanding of our 3


/


% convertible senior notes due 2011upon maturity.

On
July 1, 2011, following approval by our stockholders, we amended our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as previously amended ("Charter"), to increase the
number of authorized



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 17—Capital Stock (Continued)

shares
of our capital stock to 610,000,000, comprised of 600,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.

On
July 1, 2011, in connection with the NHP acquisition, we issued 99,849,106 shares of our common stock to NHP stockholders and holders of NHP equity awards (which shares had a
total value of $5.4 billion based on the July 1, 2011 closing price of our common stock of $53.74 per share). We reserved 2,253,366 additional shares of our common stock for issuance in
connection with equity awards
and other convertible or exchangeable securities (specifically the OP Units) that we assumed in connection with the NHP acquisition.

On
May 12, 2011, as partial consideration for the ASLG acquisition, we issued to the sellers in a private placement an aggregate of 24,958,543 shares of our common stock (which
shares had a total value of $1.38 billion based on the May 12, 2011 closing price of our common stock of $55.33 per share). On November 2, 2011, we cancelled 83,441 shares issued
to the sellers for a working capital adjustment in accordance with the purchase agreement.

In
February 2011, we completed the sale of 5,563,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our existing shelf registration statement. We received
$300.0 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale, which we used to repay existing mortgage debt and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.

Excess Share Provision

In order to preserve our ability to maintain REIT status, our Charter provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of more
than 9% of our outstanding common stock or 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of such limit are deemed to be excess shares. These shares are
automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with
respect to the shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the shares.

We
have the right to buy the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or the market price on the
date we buy the shares, and we may defer payment of the purchase price for the excess shares for up to five years. If we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to
transfer the excess shares at the direction of the Board of Directors. The owner of the excess shares is entitled to receive the lesser of the proceeds from the sale or the original purchase price for
such excess shares, and any additional amounts are payable to the beneficiary of the trust.

Our
Board of Directors is empowered to grant waivers from the excess share provisions of our Charter.

Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan

Under our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan ("DRIP"), existing stockholders may purchase shares of common stock by
reinvesting all or a portion of the cash distribution on their shares of our common stock, subject to certain limits. Existing stockholders and new investors also may purchase shares of our common
stock under the DRIP by making optional cash payments, subject to certain limits. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our common stock to shareholders who reinvest their
dividends and/or make optional cash purchases through the DRIP. The



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 17—Capital Stock (Continued)

amount
and availability of this discount is at our discretion. The granting of a discount for one month or quarter, as applicable, will not insure the availability or amount of a discount in future
periods, and each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice. We may also, without prior notice, change our determination as to whether common shares
will be purchased by the plan administrator directly from us or in the open market.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Foreign currency translation

$

21,066

$

23,010

Unrealized gain on marketable debt securities

2,103

4,794

Other

(1,107

)

(936

)

Total accumulated other comprehensive income

$

22,062

$

26,868

Note 18—Related Party Transactions

In December 2011, we entered into a joint venture with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC to develop a new MOB to be located on the Sutter Medical Center—Castro Valley
campus. Our 82.8% interest in the building will be subject to a ground lease from Sutter Health, and the MOB, when
completed, is expected to be 100% leased by Sutter Health pursuant to long-term triple-net leases. Robert D. Reed, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sutter
Health, has served as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2008.

Upon
consummation of the ASLG acquisition, we entered into long-term management agreements with Atria to operate the acquired assets. Atria is owned by private equity funds
managed by Lazard Real Estate Partners LLC ("LREP"). Effective May 13, 2011, LREP Chief Executive Officer and Managing Principal and Atria Chairman Matthew J. Lustig was appointed to our
Board of Directors pursuant to the terms of a Director Appointment Agreement between us and the sellers of the acquired assets. For the period from May 12, 2011 through December 31,
2011, we paid Atria $20.2 million in management fees.

From
time to time, we may engage Cushman & Wakefield, a global commercial real estate firm, to act as a leasing agent or broker with respect to certain of our properties.
Cushman & Wakefield President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn J. Rufrano has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2010. We believe the fees we pay to
Cushman & Wakefield in connection with the provision of these services are customary and represent market rates. Total fees we paid to Cushman & Wakefield during the year ended
December 31, 2011 were de minimis.

Effective
upon consummation of the NHP acquisition, Richard I. Gilchrist, a former NHP director, was appointed to our Board of Directors. Mr. Gilchrist currently serves as Senior
Advisor to The Irvine Company, and from 2006 until July 2011, he served as President of The Irvine Company's Investment Properties Group, from whom NHP leased its corporate headquarters prior to the
acquisition. NHP LLC, the successor to NHP and our wholly owned subsidiary, continues to rent office space in the building owned by The Irvine Company. For the period from July 1, 2011
through December 31, 2011, we paid approximately $280,000 in rent to The Irvine Company.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 18—Related Party Transactions (Continued)

In
connection with the closing of our Lillibridge acquisition, we entered into an Intellectual Property Rights Purchase and Sale Agreement with Todd W. Lillibridge, who became our
Executive Vice President, Medical Property Operations. Under the agreement, we acquired Mr. Lillibridge's rights in and to the use of the Lillibridge name and the "LILLIBRIDGE" trademark, as
well as certain derivative trademarks, design marks and slogans for an aggregate purchase price of $3.0 million, which was reported in the total purchase price for the acquisition. See
"Note 4—Acquisitions of Real Estate Property."

We
lease eight personal care facilities to Tangram Rehabilitation Network, Inc. ("Tangram") pursuant to a master lease agreement that is guaranteed by its parent company,
Res-Care, Inc.
("Res-Care"), of which Ronald G. Geary, a member of our Board of Directors, served as Chairman of the Board until December 2010. For each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, Tangram paid us approximately $1.0 million in base rent.

Note 19—Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

Summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is provided below.

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenues(1)

$

268,432

$

362,630

$

562,528

$

571,401

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders(1)

$

48,218

$

18,906

$

102,470

$

193,216

Discontinued operations(1)




(268

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

48,984

$

19,676

$

102,885

$

192,948

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

0.30

$

0.11

$

0.36

$

0.67

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.00

0.00

(0.00

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.31

$

0.11

$

0.36

$

0.67

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

0.30

$

0.11

$

0.35

$

0.66

Discontinued operations

0.00

0.00

0.00

(0.00

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.30

$

0.11

$

0.35

$

0.66

Dividends declared per share

$

0.575

$

0.7014

$

0.4486

$

0.575

(1)

The
amounts presented for the three months ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011 differ from the amounts
previously reported in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q as a result of discontinued operations consisting of properties sold in 2011 or held for sale as of December 31,
2011.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 19—Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued)

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenues, previously reported in Form 10-Q

$

270,461

$

364,660

$

565,957

Revenues, previously reported in Form 10-Q, subsequently reclassified to discontinued operations

(2,029

)

(2,030

)

(3,429

)

Total revenues disclosed in Form 10-K

$

268,432

$

362,630

$

562,528

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, previously reported in Form 10-Q

$

48,984

$

19,676

$

102,885

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, previously reported in Form 10-Q, subsequently reclassified to discontinued
operations

(766

)

(770

)

(415

)

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders disclosed in Form 10-K

$

48,218

$

18,906

$

102,470

Discontinued operations, previously reported in Form 10-Q

$

—

$

—

$

—

Discontinued operations from properties sold or held for sale subsequent to the respective reporting period




Discontinued operations disclosed in Form 10-K

$


$


$




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 19—Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued)

For the Year Ended December 31, 2010

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenues(1)

$

238,859

$

241,291

$

262,636

$

265,965

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders(1)

$

51,169

$

51,451

$

56,563

$

56,141

Discontinued operations(1)

1,450

6,616

1,335

21,442

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

52,619

$

58,067

$

57,898

$

77,583

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

0.33

$

0.33

$

0.36

$

0.36

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.04

0.01

0.13

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.34

$

0.37

$

0.37

$

0.49

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders

$

0.33

$

0.33

$

0.36

$

0.35

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.04

0.01

0.14

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.34

$

0.37

$

0.37

$

0.49

Dividends declared per share

$

0.535

$

0.535

$

0.535

$

0.535

(1)

The
amounts presented for the three months ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010 differ
from the amounts previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of discontinued operations consisting of properties sold in 2011 or held for sale as of
December 31, 2011.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 19—Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued)

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenues, previously reported in Form 10-K

$

240,888

$

243,320

$

264,665

$

267,994

Revenues, previously reported in Form 10-K, subsequently reclassified to discontinued operations

(2,029

)

(2,029

)

(2,029

)

(2,029

)

Total revenues disclosed in Form 10-K

$

238,859

$

241,291

$

262,636

$

265,965

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, previously reported in Form 10-K

$

51,874

$

52,215

$

57,356

$

56,925

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, previously reported in Form 10-K, subsequently reclassified to discontinued
operations

(705

)

(764

)

(793

)

(784

)

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders disclosed in Form 10-K

$

51,169

$

51,451

$

56,563

$

56,141

Discontinued operations, previously reported in Form 10-K

$


$

5,852

$


$

20,658

Discontinued operations from properties sold or held for sale subsequent to the respective reporting period





Discontinued operations disclosed in Form 10-K

$

1,450

$

6,616

$

1,335

$

21,442

Note 20—Segment Information

As of December 31, 2011, we operated through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and MOB operations. Our
triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating
companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of
investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage independent third parties, such as Atria and Sunrise, to manage the operations. Our MOB
operations segment primarily consists of acquiring, owning, developing, leasing and managing MOBs. Information provided for "all other" includes revenues such as income from loans and investments and
other miscellaneous income and various corporate-level expenses not directly attributable to our three reportable business segments. Assets included in all other consist primarily of corporate assets,
including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, loans receivable and miscellaneous accounts receivable.

With
the addition of the Lillibridge businesses and properties in July 2010, we believed the segregation of our MOB operations into its own reporting segment would be useful in assessing
the performance of this portion of our business in the same way that management intends to review our performance and make operating decisions. Prior to the Lillibridge acquisition, we operated
through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Prior year



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 20—Segment Information (Continued)

amounts
have been restated to reflect the segregation of our MOB operations into a reportable business segment.

We
evaluate performance of the combined properties in each reportable business segment based on segment profit, which we define as NOI adjusted for gain/loss from unconsolidated
entities. We define NOI as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs. We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP,
is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we believe that segment profit serves as a useful supplement to net income because it allows investors, analysts and our management to measure
unlevered property-level operating results and to compare our operating results to the operating results of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis. Segment profit should
not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our financial performance. In order to facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated
historical operating results, segment profit should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and data included elsewhere in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

Interest
expense, depreciation and amortization, general, administrative and professional fees and non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual
segments for purposes of assessing segment performance. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 20—Segment Information (Continued)

Summary information by reportable business segment is as follows:

For
the year ended December 31, 2011:

Triple-Net

Leased

Properties

Senior

Living

Operations

MOB

Operations

All

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

652,577

$

—

$

167,003

$

—

$

819,580

Resident fees and services

—

873,308

—

—

873,308

Medical office building and other services revenue

2,217

—

34,254

—

36,471

Income from loans and investments

—

—

—

34,415

34,415

Interest and other income

—

—

—

1,217

1,217

Total revenues

$

654,794

$

873,308

$

201,257

$

35,632

$

1,764,991

Total revenues

$

654,794

$

873,308

$

201,257

$

35,632

$

1,764,991

Less:

Interest and other income

—

—

—

1,217

1,217

Property-level operating expenses

—

593,977

57,584

—

651,561

Medical office building services costs

—

—

27,082

—

27,082

Segment NOI

654,794

279,331

116,591

34,415

1,085,131

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities


—

(347

)

—

(52

)

Segment profit

$

655,089

$

279,331

$

116,244

$

34,415

1,085,079

Interest and other income

1,217

Interest expense

(236,807

)

Depreciation and amortization

(456,590

)

General, administrative and professional fees

(74,537

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

(27,604

)

Litigation proceeds, net

202,259

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

(153,923

)

Other

(8,653

)

Income tax benefit

31,137

Discontinued operations

1,683

Net income

$

363,261



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 20—Segment Information (Continued)

For
the year ended December 31, 2010:

Triple-Net

Leased

Properties

Senior

Living

Operations

MOB

Operations

All

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

461,709

$

—

$

69,747

$

—

$

531,456

Resident fees and services

—

446,301

—

—

446,301

Medical office building and other services revenue

—

—

14,098

—

14,098

Income from loans and investments

—

—

—

16,412

16,412

Interest and other income

—

—

—



Total revenues

$

461,709

$

446,301

$

83,845

$

16,896

$

1,008,751

Total revenues

$

461,709

$

446,301

$

83,845

$

16,896

$

1,008,751

Less:

Interest and other income

—

—

—



Property-level operating expenses

—

291,831

24,122

—

315,953

Medical office building services costs

—

—

9,518

—

9,518

Segment NOI

461,709

154,470

50,205

16,412

682,796

Loss from unconsolidated entities

—

—

(664

)

—

(664

)

Segment profit

$

461,709

$

154,470

$

49,541

$

16,412

682,132

Interest and other income


Interest expense

(175,631

)

Depreciation and amortization

(203,762

)

General, administrative and professional fees

(49,830

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

(9,791

)

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

(19,243

)

Other

(272

)

Income tax expense

(5,201

)

Discontinued operations

30,843

Net income

$

249,729



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 20—Segment Information (Continued)

For the year ended December 31, 2009:

Triple-Net

Leased

Properties

Senior

Living

Operations

MOB

Operations

All

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

452,536

$

—

$

35,922

$

—

$

488,458

Resident fees and services

—

421,058

—

—

421,058

Income from loans and investments

—

—

—

13,107

13,107

Interest and other income

—

—

—



Total revenues

$

452,536

$

421,058

$

35,922

$

13,949

$

923,465

Total revenues

$

452,536

$

421,058

$

35,922

$

13,949

$

923,465

Less:

Interest and other income

—

—

—



Property-level operating expenses

—

290,045

12,768

—

302,813

Segment NOI

452,536

131,013

23,154

13,107

619,810

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

—

—

—

—

—

Segment profit

$

452,536

$

131,013

$

23,154

$

13,107

619,810

Interest and other income


Interest expense

(173,810

)

Depreciation and amortization

(197,298

)

General, administrative and professional fees

(38,830

)

Loss on extinguishment of debt

(6,080

)

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

(13,015

)

Other

(50

)

Income tax benefit

1,719

Discontinued operations

76,072

Net income

$

269,360

Assets
by reportable business segment are as follows:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Assets:

Triple-net leased properties

$

8,704,061

50.4

%

$

2,474,612

43.0

%

Senior living operations

5,758,497

33.3

2,297,041

39.9

MOB operations

2,433,160

14.1

748,945

13.0

All other assets

376,192

2.2

237,423

4.1

Total assets

$

17,271,910

100.0

%

$

5,758,021

100.0

%



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 20—Segment Information (Continued)

Capital
expenditures, including investments in real estate property and development project expenditures, by reportable business segment are as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Capital expenditures:

Triple-net leased properties(1)

$

133,761

$

12,884

$

10,867

Senior living operations

370,455

10,268

11,081

MOB operations(2)

125,453

271,144

105,880

Total capital expenditures

$

629,669

$

294,296

$

127,828

(1)

includes $9.3 million from funds held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary.

(2)

includes $55.7 million from funds held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary.

Our
portfolio of properties and mortgage loan and other investments are located in the United States and Canada. Revenues are attributed to an individual country based on the location of
each property.

Geographic
information regarding our operations is as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenues:

United States

$

1,672,952

$

924,221

$

849,737

Canada

92,039

84,530

73,728

Total revenues

$

1,764,991

$

1,008,751

$

923,465

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Net real estate property:

United States

$

15,510,824

$

4,857,510

Canada

402,908

422,009

Total net real estate property

$

15,913,732

$

5,279,519

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information

At the time of initial issuance, we and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors") fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a
joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the Ventas Issuers' 9% senior notes
due 2012, 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 and 6


/


% senior notes due 2017. Ventas Capital Corporation, one of the Ventas Issuers, was formed in 2002 to facilitate offerings
of the senior notes,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

has
no assets or operations, and is a direct subsidiary of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, the other Ventas Issuer. Our other subsidiaries (the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") did not
provide a guarantee and therefore were not obligated with respect to the Ventas Issuers' senior notes. In September 2010, the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors were released from their obligations
with respect to the Ventas Issuers' 6


/


% senior notes due 2016 and 6


/


% senior notes due 2017 pursuant to the terms of the applicable indentures.

In
connection with the NHP acquisition, our wholly owned subsidiary, NHP LLC, assumed the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the 8


/


% senior
notes due 2012, the 6.25% senior notes due 2013, the 6.00% senior notes due 2015, the 6.90% senior notes due 2037 and the 6.59% senior notes due 2038 of NHP. We, the Ventas Issuers and our
subsidiaries (other than NHP LLC) are not obligated with respect to NHP LLC's senior notes.

Contractual
and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing our subsidiaries' outstanding mortgage indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict
our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting our debt service obligations, including our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Ventas Issuers' senior
notes. Certain of our real estate assets are also subject to mortgages.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

The
following summarizes our condensed consolidating information as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009:

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

As of December 31, 2011

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Assets

Net real estate investments

$


$

3,629,489

$

519,042

$

12,082,772

$

—

$

16,231,612

Cash and cash equivalents

2,335

7,820

—

35,652

—

45,807

Escrow deposits and restricted cash

1,971

27,523

7,513

39,583

—

76,590

Deferred financing costs, net



19,239

6,239

—

26,669

Investment in and advances to affiliates

8,612,892

—

1,728,635

—

(10,341,527

)

—

Other assets

54,415

183,801

47,063

605,953

—

891,232

Total assets

$

8,672,679

$

3,849,067

$

2,321,492

$

12,770,199

$

(10,341,527

)

$

17,271,910

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Senior notes payable and other debt

$

—

$

502,215

$

2,593,176

$

3,333,725

$

—

$

6,429,116

Intercompany loans

(68,408

)

679,634

(655,914

)

44,688

—

—

Accrued interest

—

1,431

12,561

23,702

—

37,694

Accounts payable and other liabilities

86,101

184,331

18,162

797,003

—

1,085,597

Deferred income taxes

260,722

—

—

—

—

260,722

Total liabilities

278,415

1,367,611

1,967,985

4,199,118

—

7,813,129

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

—

—

—

102,837

—

102,837

Total equity

8,394,264

2,481,456

353,507

8,468,244

(10,341,527

)

9,355,944

Total liabilities and equity

$

8,672,679

$

3,849,067

$

2,321,492

$

12,770,199

$

(10,341,527

)

$

17,271,910



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

As of December 31, 2010

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Assets

Net real estate investments

$


$

3,228,731

$

688,158

$

1,526,288

$

—

$

5,444,114

Cash and cash equivalents

1,083

13,440

—

7,289

—

21,812

Escrow deposits and restricted cash


19,787

9,169

9,908

—

38,940

Deferred financing costs, net

2,691

1,961

7,961

6,920

—

19,533

Investment in and advances to affiliates

712,545

—

1,728,685

—

(2,441,230

)

—

Other assets

75,794

106,211

8,057

43,560

—

233,622

Total assets

$

793,126

$

3,370,130

$

2,442,030

$

1,593,965

$

(2,441,230

)

$

5,758,021

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Senior notes payable and other debt

$

225,644

$

539,564

$

1,301,089

$

833,747

$

—

$

2,900,044

Intercompany loans

(144,897

)

571,955

(434,454

)

7,396

—

—

Accrued interest

(113

)

2,704

12,852

3,853

—

19,296

Accounts payable and other liabilities

41,339

102,723

15,712

47,369

—

207,143

Deferred income taxes

241,333

—

—

—

—

241,333

Total liabilities

363,306

1,216,946

895,199

892,365

—

3,367,816

Total equity

429,820

2,153,184

1,546,831

701,600

(2,441,230

)

2,390,205

Total liabilities and equity

$

793,126

$

3,370,130

$

2,442,030

$

1,593,965

$

(2,441,230

)

$

5,758,021



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

2,471

$

224,683

$

284,320

$

308,106

$

—

$

819,580

Resident fees and services

—

355,946

—

517,362

—

873,308

Medical office building and other services revenues

—

34,374

—

2,097

—

36,471

Income from loans and investments

6,305

2,755

8,570

16,785

—

34,415

Equity earnings in affiliates

231,297

1,447

—

—

(232,744

)

—

Interest and other income





—

1,217

Total revenues

240,281

619,214

292,947

845,293

(232,744

)

1,764,991

Expenses:

Interest

(1,897

)

59,642

74,157

104,905

—

236,807

Depreciation and amortization

1,715

129,588

35,441

289,846

—

456,590

Property-level operating expenses

—

271,605


379,446

—

651,561

Medical office building services costs

—

27,082

—

—

—

27,082

General, administrative and professional fees

(5,328

)

38,115

29,336

12,414

—

74,537

Loss on extinguishment of debt

2,071

16,764

8,769

—

—

27,604

Litigation proceeds, net

(202,259

)

—

—

—

—

(202,259

)

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

111,845

3,779

—

38,299

—

153,923

Other


5,010

—

2,865

—

8,653

Total expenses

(93,075

)

551,585

148,213

827,775

—

1,434,498

Income before loss from unconsolidated entities, income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

333,356

67,629

144,734

17,518

(232,744

)

330,493

Loss from unconsolidated entities

—

—

(52

)

—

—

(52

)

Income tax benefit

31,137

—

—

—

—

31,137

Income from continuing operations

364,493

67,629

144,682

17,518

(232,744

)

361,578

Discontinued operations

—

—

—

1,683

—

1,683

Net income

364,493

67,629

144,682

19,201

(232,744

)

363,261

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

(1,232

)

—

(1,232

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

364,493

$

67,629

$

144,682

$

20,433

$

(232,744

)

$

364,493



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Year Ended December 31, 2010

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

2,409

$

196,676

$

272,366

$

60,005

$

—

$

531,456

Resident fees and services

—

257,659

—

188,642

—

446,301

Medical office building and other services revenues

—

14,570

—

(472

)

—

14,098

Income from loans and investments

5,666

2,957

7,789

—

—

16,412

Equity earnings in affiliates

258,442

1,914

—

—

(260,356

)

—

Interest and other income





—


Total revenues

266,849

473,836

280,238

248,184

(260,356

)

1,008,751

Expenses:

Interest

1,758

74,937

50,403

48,533

—

175,631

Depreciation and amortization

1,636

111,456

35,851

54,819

—

203,762

Property-level operating expenses

—

177,733


137,701

—

315,953

Medical office building services costs

—

9,517

—


—

9,518

General, administrative and professional fees

(2,549

)

25,306

21,618

5,455

—

49,830

Loss on extinguishment of debt

—


8,993

—

—

9,791

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

14,291

4,710

—


—

19,243

Other



—


—


Total expenses

15,355

404,509

117,384

246,752

—

784,000

Income before loss from unconsolidated entities, income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

251,494

69,327

162,854

1,432

(260,356

)

224,751

Loss from unconsolidated entities

—

—

(664

)

—

—

(664

)

Income tax expense

(5,201

)

—

—

—

—

(5,201

)

Income from continuing operations

246,293

69,327

162,190

1,432

(260,356

)

218,886

Discontinued operations

(126

)


29,207

1,546

—

30,843

Net income

246,167

69,543

191,397

2,978

(260,356

)

249,729

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax

—

—

—

3,562

—

3,562

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

246,167

$

69,543

$

191,397

$

(584

)

$

(260,356

)

$

246,167



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Year Ended December 31, 2009

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-

Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

2,351

$

147,737

$

276,008

$

62,362

$

—

$

488,458

Resident fees and services

—

161,380

—

259,678

—

421,058

Income from loans and investments

—


13,104

—

—

13,107

Equity earnings in affiliates

264,163

2,309

—

—

(266,472

)

—

Interest and other income





—


Total revenues

266,515

311,447

289,912

322,063

(266,472

)

923,465

Expenses:

Interest

4,318

21,975

88,988

58,529

—

173,810

Depreciation and amortization


89,156

40,398

67,093

—

197,298

Property-level operating expenses

—

118,625


183,732

—

302,813

General, administrative and professional fees


14,709

18,934

5,078

—

38,830

Loss on extinguishment of debt

—

—

6,012


—

6,080

Merger-related expenses and deal costs

—

11,682

1,333

—

—

13,015

Other

(3,339

)

39,140

(35,107

)

(644

)

—


Total expenses

1,739

295,287

121,014

313,856

—

731,896

Income before income taxes, discontinued operations and noncontrolling interest

264,776

16,160

168,898

8,207

(266,472

)

191,569

Income tax benefit

1,719

—

—

—

—

1,719

Income from continuing operations

266,495

16,160

168,898

8,207

(266,472

)

193,288

Discontinued operations

—

1,273

61,981

12,818

—

76,072

Net income

266,495

17,433

230,879

21,025

(266,472

)

269,360

Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax

—

(431

)

—

3,296

—

2,865

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

266,495

$

17,864

$

230,879

$

17,729

$

(266,472

)

$

266,495



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-

Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

124,784

$

147,052

$

199,431

$

301,930

$

—

$

773,197

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities

(618,663

)

105,279

(500,879

)

16,824

—

(997,439

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net change in borrowings under revolving credit facilities

—

132,452

405,000

—

—

537,452

Proceeds from debt

(230,000

)

—

1,069,374

504,266

—

1,343,640

Repayment of debt

—

(216,293

)

(206,500

)

(966,169

)

—

(1,388,962

)

Net change in intercompany debt

1,363,963

(62,196

)

(1,559,518

)

257,751

—

—

Payment of deferred financing costs

—

—

(19,661

)

(379

)

—

(20,040

)

Issuance of common stock, net

299,847

—

—

—

—

299,847

Cash distribution (to) from affiliates

(417,763

)

(111,914

)

612,798

(83,121

)

—

—

Cash distribution to common stockholders

(521,046

)

—

—

—

—

(521,046

)

Cash distribution to redeemable OP unitholders

(2,359

)

—

—

—

—

(2,359

)

Purchases of redeemable OP units

—

—

—

(185

)

—

(185

)

Contributions from noncontrolling interest

—

—

—


—


Distributions to noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

(2,556

)

—

(2,556

)

Other

2,489

—

—

—

—

2,489

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

495,131

(257,951

)

301,493

(290,391

)

—

248,282

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

1,252

(5,620

)


28,363

—

24,040

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents

—

—

(45

)

—

—

(45

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

1,083

13,440

—

7,289

—

21,812

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

2,335

$

7,820

$

—

$

35,652

$

—

$

45,807



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Year Ended December 31, 2010

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-

Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

14,092

$

217,820

$

213,295

$

2,415

$

—

$

447,622

Net cash used in investing activities

—

(32,175

)

(266,609

)

(3,136

)

—

(301,920

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net change in borrowings under revolving credit facilities

—

(11,436

)

40,000

—

—

28,564

Proceeds from debt

—

—

595,712

1,670

—

597,382

Repayment of debt

—

(262,370

)

(244,710

)

(17,680

)

—

(524,760

)

Net change in intercompany debt

(95,762

)

128,791

(26,250

)

(6,779

)

—

—

Payment of deferred financing costs

—

(47

)

(2,647

)

—

—

(2,694

)

Cash distribution from (to) affiliates

405,433

(34,933

)

(391,842

)

21,342

—

—

Cash distribution to common stockholders

(336,085

)

—

—

—

—

(336,085

)

Contributions from noncontrolling interest

—

—

—


—


Distributions to noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

(8,082

)

—

(8,082

)

Other

13,405

—

—

—

—

13,405

Net cash used in financing activities

(13,009

)

(179,995

)

(29,737

)

(8,711

)

—

(231,452

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

1,083

5,650

(83,051

)

(9,432

)

—

(85,750

)

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents

—

—


—

—


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

—

7,790

82,886

16,721

—

107,397

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

1,083

$

13,440

$

—

$

7,289

$

—

$

21,812



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 21—Condensed Consolidating Information (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Year Ended December 31, 2009

Ventas, Inc.

Wholly

Owned

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Ventas

Issuers

Non-

Guarantor

Subsidiaries

Consolidated

Elimination

Consolidated

(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

1,385

$

125,216

$

220,936

$

74,564

$

—

$

422,101

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

—


11,447

(13,763

)

—

(1,746

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net change in borrowings under revolving credit facilities

—

(42,633

)

(250,240

)

—

—

(292,873

)

Proceeds from debt

—


166,000

199,406

—

365,682

Repayment of debt

—

(36,703

)

(433,528

)

(54,942

)

—

(525,173

)

Net change in intercompany debt

(44,623

)

(22,143

)

105,402

(38,636

)

—

—

Payment of deferred financing costs

—

(1,172

)

(11,034

)

(4,449

)

—

(16,655

)

Issuance of common stock, net

299,201

—

—

—

—

299,201

Cash distribution from (to) affiliates

55,741

(29,603

)

128,575

(154,713

)

—

—

Cash distribution to common stockholders

(314,399

)

—

—

—

—

(314,399

)

Contributions from noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

1,211

—

1,211

Distributions to noncontrolling interest

—

(379

)

—

(9,490

)

—

(9,869

)

Other

2,695

—

—

—

—

2,695

Net cash used in financing activities

(1,385

)

(132,357

)

(294,825

)

(61,613

)

—

(490,180

)

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

—

(6,571

)

(62,442

)

(812

)

—

(69,825

)

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents

—

—


—

—


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

—

14,361

144,918

17,533

—

176,812

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

—

$

7,790

$

82,886

$

16,721

$

—

$

107,397



VENTAS, INC.

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2011

(Dollars in Thousands)

For the Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Reconciliation of real estate:

Carrying cost:

Balance at beginning of period

$

6,600,886

$

6,292,621

$

6,160,630

Additions during period:

Acquisitions

10,491,275

315,538

108,376

Capital expenditures

102,918

21,038

13,798

Dispositions:

Sales and/or transfers to assets held for sale

(157,764

)

(46,083

)

(34,525

)

Foreign currency translation

(7,911

)

17,772

44,342

Balance at end of period

$

17,029,404

$

6,600,886

$

6,292,621

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of period

$

1,368,219

$

1,177,911

$

987,691

Additions during period:

Depreciation expense

380,734

197,256

198,789

Dispositions:

Sales and/or transfers to assets held for sale

(16,536

)

(8,259

)

(11,469

)

Foreign currency translation

(2,441

)

1,311

2,900

Balance at end of period

$

1,729,976

$

1,368,219

$

1,177,911



VENTAS, INC.

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2011

(Dollars in Thousands)

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

KINDRED SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES


Whitesburg Gardens Health Care Center

Huntsville

AL

$

—

$


$

4,216

$

—

$


$

4,216

$

4,750

$

3,491

$

1,259



25 years


Specialty Healthcare & Rehabilitation Center of Mobile

Mobile

AL

—


2,981

—


2,981

2,986

2,042




29 years


Kachina Point Health Care and Rehabilitation Center

Sedona

AZ

—


4,179

—


4,179

4,543

2,842

1,701



45 years


Desert Life Rehabilitation and Care Center

Tucson

AZ

—


5,117

—


5,117

5,728

4,117

1,611



37 years


Villa Campana Health Care Center

Tucson

AZ

—


2,201

—


2,201

2,734

1,258

1,476



35 years


Bay View Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Alameda

CA

—

1,462

5,981

—

1,462

5,981

7,443

4,140

3,303



45 years


Canyonwood Nursing and Rehab Center

Redding

CA

—


3,784

—


3,784

4,185

1,947

2,238



45 years


The Tunnell Center for Rehabilitation & Heathcare

San Francisco

CA

—

1,902

7,531

—

1,902

7,531

9,433

5,100

4,333



28 years


Lawton Healthcare Center

San Francisco

CA

—



—



1,457


1,010



20 years


Village Square Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

San Marcos

CA

—


3,507

—


3,507

4,273

1,585

2,688



42 years


Valley Gardens Health Care & Rehabilitation Center

Stockton

CA

—


3,405

—


3,405

3,921

1,837

2,084



29 years


Aurora Care Center

Aurora

CO

—


2,328

—


2,328

2,525

1,530




30 years


Brighton Care Center

Brighton

CO

—


3,377

—


3,377

3,659

2,276

1,383



30 years


Cherry Hills Health Care Center

Englewood

CO

—


2,180

—


2,180

2,421

1,514




30 years


Malley Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Northglenn

CO

—


8,294

—


8,294

8,795

5,300

3,495



29 years


Parkway Pavilion Healthcare

Enfield

CT

—


3,607

—


3,607

3,944

2,663

1,281



28 years


Andrew House Healthcare

New Britain

CT

—


1,963

—


1,963

2,210

1,252




29 years


The Crossings West Campus

New London

CT

—


2,363

—


2,363

2,565

1,612




28 years


The Crossings East Campus

New London

CT

—


2,776

—


2,776

3,177

2,056

1,121



29 years


Windsor Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Windsor

CT

—


2,520

—


2,520

2,888

1,853

1,035



30 years


Lafayette Nursing and Rehab Center

Fayetteville

GA

—


6,623

—


6,623

7,221

5,305

1,916



20 years


Specialty Care of Marietta

Marietta

GA

—


2,782

—


2,782

3,023

1,930

1,093



28.5 years


Savannah Rehabilitation & Nursing Center

Savannah

GA

—


2,772

—


2,772

2,985

1,846

1,139



28.5 years


Savannah Specialty Care Center

Savannah

GA

—


2,219

—


2,219

2,376

1,735




26 years


Boise Health and Rehabilitation Center

Boise

ID

—


3,593

—


3,593

3,849

1,360

2,489



45 years


Canyon West Health and Rehabilitation Center

Caldwell

ID

—


2,050

—


2,050

2,362


1,503



45 years


Mountain Valley Care & Rehabilitation Center

Kellogg

ID

—


1,280

—


1,280

1,348

1,280




25 years


Lewiston Rehabilitation & Care Center

Lewiston

ID

—


3,982

—


3,982

4,115

3,130




29 years


Aspen Park Healthcare

Moscow

ID

—


2,571

—


2,571

2,832

2,198




25 years


Nampa Care Center

Nampa

ID

—


2,810

—


2,810

3,062

2,662




25 years


Weiser Rehabilitation & Care Center

Weiser

ID

—


1,760

—


1,760

1,917

1,821




25 years


Meadowvale Health and Rehabilitation Center

Bluffton

IN

—



—








22 years


Bremen Health Care Center

Bremen

IN

—


3,354

—


3,354

3,463

1,932

1,531



45 years


Wedgewood Healthcare Center

Clarksville

IN

—


5,115

—


5,115

5,234

2,929

2,305



35 years


Columbus Health and Rehabilitation Center

Columbus

IN

—


6,817

—


6,817

7,162

5,571

1,591



25 years


Harrison Health and Rehabilitation Centre

Corydon

IN

—


6,068

—


6,068

6,193

1,886

4,307



45 years


Valley View Health Care Center

Elkhart

IN

—


2,665

—


2,665

2,752

1,991




25 years


Wildwood Health Care Center

Indianapolis

IN

—


4,983

—


4,983

5,117

3,677

1,440



25 years


Windsor Estates Health & Rehab Center

Kokomo

IN

—


6,625

—


6,625

6,881

3,727

3,154



35 years


Parkwood Health Care Center

Lebanon

IN

—


4,512

—


4,512

4,633

3,314

1,319



25 years


Muncie Health & Rehabilitation Center

Muncie

IN

—


4,202

—


4,202

4,310

3,067

1,243



25 years


Rolling Hills Health Care Center

New Albany

IN

—


1,894

—


1,894

1,975

1,423




25 years


Royal Oaks Health Care and Rehabilitation Center

Terre Haute

IN

—


5,779

—


5,779

6,197

2,266

3,931



45 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Southwood Health & Rehabilitation Center

Terre Haute

IN

—


2,868

—


2,868

2,958

2,127




25 years


Rosewood Health Care Center

Bowling Green

KY

—


5,371

—


5,371

5,619

3,837

1,782



30 years


Riverside Manor Healthcare Center

Calhoun

KY

—


2,119

—


2,119

2,222

1,533




30 years


Oakview Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Calvert City

KY

—


2,882

—


2,882

3,006

2,059




30 years


Danville Centre for Health and Rehabilitation

Danville

KY

—


3,538

—


3,538

3,860

2,173

1,687



30 years


Woodland Terrace Health Care Facility

Elizabethtown

KY

—


1,795

—


1,795

2,011

1,889




26 years


Maple Manor Health Care Center

Greenville

KY

—


3,187

—


3,187

3,246

2,297




30 years


Harrodsburg Health Care Center

Harrodsburg

KY

—


1,830

—


1,830

1,967

1,477




35 years


Northfield Centre for Health and Rehabilitation

Louisville

KY

—


1,555

—


1,555

1,840

1,212




30 years


Hillcrest Health Care Center

Owensboro

KY

—


2,619

—


2,619

3,163

2,678




22 years


Fountain Circle Health and Rehabilitation

Winchester

KY

—


6,120

—


6,120

6,257

4,328

1,929



30 years


Colony House Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Abington

MA

—



—



1,131

1,072




40 years


Blueberry Hill Skilled Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

Beverly

MA

—


4,290

—


4,290

4,419

3,144

1,275



40 years


Presentation Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

Brighton

MA

—


1,220

—


1,220

1,404

1,241




28 years


Walden Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Concord

MA

—


1,347

—


1,347

1,528

1,371




40 years


Sachem Skilled Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

East Bridgewater

MA

—


1,238

—


1,238

1,767

1,514




27 years


Crawford Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Fall River

MA

—


1,109

—


1,109

1,236

1,108




29 years


Hillcrest Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Fitchburg

MA

—


1,461

—


1,461

1,636

1,467




25 years


Franklin Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Franklin

MA

—



—








40 years


Timberlyn Heights Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Great Barrington

MA

—


1,305

—


1,305

1,425

1,248




29 years


Great Barrington Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Great Barrington

MA

—


1,142

—


1,142

1,202

1,136




40 years


Laurel Ridge Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Jamaica Plain

MA

—


1,617

—


1,617

1,811

1,268




30 years


River Terrace Healthcare

Lancaster

MA

—



—



1,225

1,103




40 years


Bolton Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Marlborough

MA

—


2,431

—


2,431

2,653

1,988




34.5 years


The Eliot Healthcare Center

Natick

MA

—


1,328

—


1,328

1,577

1,291




31 years


Hallmark Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

New Bedford

MA

—


2,694

—


2,694

2,896

2,348




26 years


Brigham Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Newburyport

MA

—


1,708

—


1,708

1,834

1,518




27 years


Country Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Newburyport

MA

—


3,004

—


3,004

3,203

2,618




27 years


Quincy Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Quincy

MA

—


2,911

—


2,911

3,127

2,679




24 years


Den-Mar Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Rockport

MA

—


1,560

—


1,560

1,583

1,403




30 years


Hammersmith House Nursing Care Center

Saugus

MA

—


1,919

—


1,919

2,031

1,652




28 years


Eagle Pond Rehabilitation and Living Center

South Dennis

MA

—


6,896

—


6,896

7,192

3,566

3,626



50 years


Blue Hills Alzheimer's Care Center

Stoughton

MA

—


1,026

—


1,026

1,537

1,361




28 years


Country Gardens Skilled Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

Swansea

MA

—


2,675

—


2,675

3,090

2,375




27 years


Harrington House Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Walpole

MA

—


4,444

—


4,444

4,448

2,085

2,363



45 years


Oakwood Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Webster

MA

—


1,154

—


1,154

1,256

1,121




31 years


Newton and Wellesley Alzheimer Center

Wellesley

MA

—


3,250

—


3,250

3,547

2,641




30 years


Augusta Rehabilitation Center

Augusta

ME

—


1,074

—


1,074

1,226





30 years


Eastside Rehabilitation and Living Center

Bangor

ME

—


1,349

—


1,349

1,665

1,164




30 years


Westgate Manor

Bangor

ME

—


2,718

—


2,718

3,005

2,281




31 years


Winship Green Nursing Center

Bath

ME

—


1,455

—


1,455

1,565

1,156




35 years


Brewer Rehabilitation and Living Center

Brewer

ME

—


2,737

—


2,737

2,965

2,055




33 years


Kennebunk Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Kennebunk

ME

—


1,898

—


1,898

1,997

1,387




35 years


Norway Rehabilitation & Living Center

Norway

ME

—


1,658

—


1,658

1,791

1,212




39 years


Brentwood Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Yarmouth

ME

—


2,789

—


2,789

2,970

2,112




45 years


Parkview Acres Care and Rehabilitation Center

Dillon

MT

—


2,578

—


2,578

2,785

1,735

1,050



29 years


Park Place Health Care Center

Great Falls

MT

—


6,311

—


6,311

6,911

4,213

2,698



28 years


Chapel Hill Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Chapel Hill

NC

—


3,029

—


3,029

3,376

2,104

1,272



28 years


Pettigrew Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Durham

NC

—


2,889

—


2,889

2,990

2,030




28 years


Rose Manor Healthcare Center

Durham

NC

—


3,527

—


3,527

3,727

2,764




26 years


Guardian Care of Elizabeth City

Elizabeth City

NC

—



—





—



20 years


Rehabilitation and Health Center of Gastonia

Gastonia

NC

—


2,359

—


2,359

2,517

1,652




29 years


Guardian Care of Henderson

Henderson

NC

—


1,997

—


1,997

2,203

1,347




29 years


Kinston Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Kinston

NC

—


3,038

—


3,038

3,224

1,963

1,261



29 years


Lincoln Nursing Center

Lincolnton

NC

—


3,309

—


3,309

3,348

2,439




35 years


Rehabilitation and Nursing Center of Monroe

Monroe

NC

—


2,654

—


2,654

2,839

1,893




28 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Sunnybrook Healthcare and Rehabilitation Specialists

Raleigh

NC

—


3,409

—


3,409

3,596

2,797




25 years


Raleigh Rehabilitation & Healthcare Center

Raleigh

NC

—


5,470

—


5,470

5,786

4,449

1,337



25 years


Guardian Care of Roanoke Rapids

Roanoke Rapids

NC

—


4,132

—


4,132

4,471

3,292

1,179



25 years


Guardian Care of Rocky Mount

Rocky Mount

NC

—


1,732

—


1,732

1,972

1,394




25 years


Cypress Pointe Rehabilitation and Health Care Centre

Wilmington

NC

—


3,710

—


3,710

3,943

2,653

1,290



28.5 years


Silas Creek Manor

Winston-Salem

NC

—


1,893

—


1,893

2,104

1,289




28.5 years


Guardian Care of Zebulon

Zebulon

NC

—


1,933

—


1,933

2,112

1,306




29 years


Dover Rehabilitation and Living Center

Dover

NH

—


3,797

—


3,797

4,152

3,375




25 years


Hanover Terrace Healthcare

Hanover

NH

—


1,825

—


1,825

2,151

1,214




29 years


Greenbriar Terrace Healthcare

Nashua

NH

—


6,011

—


6,011

6,787

4,906

1,881



25 years


Las Vegas Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Las Vegas

NV

—


1,018

—


1,018

1,472





30 years


Torrey Pines Care Center

Las Vegas

NV

—


1,324

—


1,324

1,580





29 years


Cambridge Health & Rehabilitation Center

Cambridge

OH

—


2,642

—


2,642

2,750

1,986




25 years


Winchester Place Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Canal Winchester

OH

—


7,149

—


7,149

7,603

5,355

2,248



28 years


Chillicothe Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

Chillicothe

OH

—


3,481

—


3,481

3,609

2,727




34 years


Franklin Woods Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Columbus

OH

—


4,712

—


4,712

4,902

2,497

2,405



38 years


Minerva Park Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Columbus

OH

—


3,684

—


3,684

3,894

1,434

2,460



45 years


Coshocton Health & Rehabilitation Center

Coshocton

OH

—


1,979

—


1,979

2,182

1,475




25 years


Lebanon Country Manor

Lebanon

OH

—


3,617

—


3,617

3,722

2,263

1,459



43 years


Logan Health Care Center

Logan

OH

—


3,750

—


3,750

3,919

2,577

1,342



30 years


Pickerington Nursing & Rehabilitation Center

Pickerington

OH

—


4,382

—


4,382

4,694

2,351

2,343



37 years


Medford Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Medford

OR

—


4,610

—


4,610

4,972

3,151

1,821



34 years


Sunnyside Care Center

Salem

OR

—

1,512

2,249

—

1,512

2,249

3,761

1,386

2,375



30 years


Wyomissing Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Reading

PA

—


5,095

—


5,095

5,156

2,004

3,152



45 years


Chestnut Terrace Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

E. Providence

RI

—


2,643

—


2,643

2,817

1,061

1,756



45 years


Oak Hill Nursing and Rehabilitation Center

Pawtucket

RI

—


6,724

—


6,724

6,815

2,680

4,135



45 years


Masters Health Care Center

Algood

TN

—


4,370

—


4,370

4,894

2,996

1,898



38 years


Madison Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Madison

TN

—


1,445

—


1,445

1,613

1,010




29 years


Primacy Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Memphis

TN

—

1,222

8,344

—

1,222

8,344

9,566

5,005

4,561



37 years


Wasatch Care Center

Ogden

UT

—



—








25 years


St. George Care and Rehabilitation Center

Saint George

UT

—


4,465

—


4,465

4,884

2,781

2,103



29 years


Federal Heights Rehabilitation and Nursing Center

Salt Lake City

UT

—


2,322

—


2,322

2,523

1,617




29 years


Crosslands Rehabilitation & Healthcare Center

Sandy

UT

—


4,300

—


4,300

4,634

2,211

2,423



40 years


Harbour Pointe Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Norfolk

VA

—


4,441

—


4,441

4,868

3,040

1,828



28 years


Nansemond Pointe Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Suffolk

VA

—


6,990

—


6,990

7,524

4,479

3,045



32 years


River Pointe Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Virginia Beach

VA

—


4,440

—


4,440

5,210

3,703

1,507



25 years


Bay Pointe Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Virginia Beach

VA

—


2,886

(380

)


2,886

3,311

1,898

1,413



29 years


Birchwood Terrace Healthcare

Burlington

VT

—


4,656

—


4,656

4,671

3,936




27 years


Bellingham Health Care and Rehabilitation Services

Bellingham

WA

—


3,824

—


3,824

4,265

2,583

1,682



28.5 years


Lakewood Healthcare Center

Lakewood

WA

—


3,511

—


3,511

4,015

1,959

2,056



45 years


Northwest Continuum Care Center

Longview

WA

—


2,563

—


2,563

2,708

1,761




29 years


Rainier Vista Care Center

Puyallup

WA

—


4,780

—


4,780

5,300

2,429

2,871



40 years


Arden Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center

Seattle

WA

—

1,111

4,013

—

1,111

4,013

5,124

2,693

2,431



28.5 years


Queen Anne Healthcare

Seattle

WA

—


2,750

—


2,750

3,320

1,928

1,392



29 years


Vancouver Health & Rehabilitation Center

Vancouver

WA

—


2,964

—


2,964

3,413

2,051

1,362



28 years


Eastview Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Antigo

WI

—


4,047

—


4,047

4,247

3,223

1,024



28 years


Colony Oaks Care Center

Appleton

WI

—


3,571

—


3,571

3,924

2,640

1,284



29 years


Mount Carmel Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Burlington

WI

—


7,205

—


7,205

7,479

4,430

3,049



30 years


San Luis Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Green Bay

WI

—


5,299

—


5,299

5,558

4,152

1,406



25 years


Sheridan Medical Complex

Kenosha

WI

—


4,910

—


4,910

5,192

3,953

1,239



25 years


Woodstock Health and Rehabilitation Center

Kenosha

WI

—


7,424

—


7,424

7,986

6,183

1,803



25 years


North Ridge Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Manitowoc

WI

—


3,785

—


3,785

3,991

2,665

1,326



29 years


Mt. Carmel Health & Rehabilitation Center

Milwaukee

WI

—

2,678

25,867

—

2,678

25,867

28,545

19,391

9,154



30 years


Vallhaven Care Center

Neenah

WI

—


5,125

—


5,125

5,462

3,620

1,842



28 years


Kennedy Park Medical & Rehabilitation Center

Schofield

WI

—


3,596

—


3,596

3,897

3,594




29 years


Colonial Manor Medical and Rehabilitation Center

Wausau

WI

—


3,370

—


3,370

3,539

2,120

1,419



30 years


Mountain Towers Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Cheyenne

WY

—


3,468

—


3,468

3,810

2,260

1,550



29 years


South Central Wyoming Healthcare and Rehabilitation

Rawlins

WY

—


1,738

—


1,738

1,889

1,157




29 years


Wind River Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center

Riverton

WY

—


1,559

—


1,559

1,738

1,024




29 years


Sage View Care Center

Rock Springs

WY

—


2,392

—


2,392

2,679

1,614

1,065



30 years

TOTAL KINDRED SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES

—

50,734

544,311

(380

)

50,354

544,311

594,665

383,013

211,652



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

NON-KINDRED SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES


Saline Nursing Center

Benton

AR

—


13,540

—


13,540

14,190


14,141



35 years


Regional Nursing Center

Bryant

AR

—


12,455

—


12,455

12,935


12,886



35 years


Beverly Health Care Golflinks

Hot Springs

AR

—


11,311

—


11,311

11,811


11,765



35 years


Lakewood Rehab Center

Lake Village

AR

—


8,594

—


8,594

9,154


9,115



35 years


Countrywood Estates

Monticello

AR

—


9,542

—


9,542

9,802


9,767



35 years


Riverview Manor

Morrilton

AR

—


9,476

—


9,476

9,716


9,677



35 years


Brookridge Life Care & Rehab

Morrilton

AR

—


11,069

—


11,069

11,479


11,432



35 years


Wynwood Nursing Center

Wynne

AR

—


10,763

—


10,763

11,053


11,011



35 years


Chowchilla Convalescent Center

Chowchilla

CA

—

1,780

5,097

—

1,780

5,097

6,877


6,874



35 years


Driftwood Gilroy

Gilroy

CA

—

3,330

13,665

—

3,330

13,665

16,995


16,969



35 years


Orange Hills Convalescent Hospital

Orange

CA

—


20,968

—


20,968

21,928


21,845



35 years


Park Place Health Center

Hartford

CT

—

1,370

2,908

—

1,370

2,908

4,278


4,901



35 years


Spectrum Healthcare Torrington

Torrington

CT

—

1,770

2,716

—

1,770

2,716

4,486


4,475



35 years


Laurel Hills/Highland Acres

Winsted

CT

—


1,914

—


1,914

2,574


2,566



35 years


Beverly Health—Ft. Pierce

Ft. Pierce

FL

—


16,318

—


16,318

17,158


17,102



35 years


Willowwood Health & Rehab Center

Flowery Branch

GA

—

1,130

9,219

—

1,130

9,219

10,349


10,316



35 years


Westbury

Lisle

IL

—


9,270

—


9,270

10,000

1,090

8,910



35 years


Rolling Hills

Anderson

IN

—

1,600

6,710

—

1,600

6,710

8,310


8,293



35 years


Chalet Village

Berne

IN

—


1,654

—


1,654

2,244


2,383



35 years


Vermillion Convalescent Center

Clinton

IN

—


11,057

—


11,057

11,757


11,716



35 years


Willow Crossing

Columbus

IN

—


4,963

—


4,963

5,843


5,821



35 years


Willowbend Nursing Center

East Muncie

IN

—

1,080

4,026

—

1,080

4,026

5,106


5,348



35 years


Greenhill Manor

Fowler

IN

—


7,659

—


7,659

8,039


8,013



35 years


Twin City Healthcare

Gas City

IN

—


3,012

—


3,012

3,362


5,501



35 years


Hanover

Hanover

IN

—

1,070

3,903

—

1,070

3,903

4,973


4,944



35 years


AmeriCare of Hartford City

Hartford City

IN

—


1,855

—


1,855

2,325


2,407



35 years


Oakbrook Village

Huntington

IN

—


1,950

—


1,950

2,550


3,560



35 years


Lakeview Manor

Indianapolis

IN

—

2,780

7,927

—

2,780

7,927

10,707


10,682



35 years


Wintersong

Knox

IN

—


2,019

—


2,019

2,439


2,944



35 years


Magnolia Woodland

Lawrenceburg

IN

—


3,757

—


3,757

4,097


4,291



35 years


Monticello

Monticello

IN

—


8,461

—


8,461

8,921


8,891



35 years


Petersburg Health Care Center

Petersburg

IN

—


8,443

—


8,443

8,753


8,720



35 years


AmeriCare of Portland

Portland

IN

—


9,597

—


9,597

9,997


9,958



35 years


Oakridge Convalescent Center

Richmond

IN

—


11,128

—


11,128

11,768


11,725



35 years


Liberty Village

St. Muncie

IN

—

1,520

7,542

—

1,520

7,542

9,062


9,069



35 years


Westridge Healthcare Center

Terre Haute

IN

—


5,384

—


5,384

6,074


6,055



35 years


Magnolia Washington

Washington

IN

—


10,054

—


10,054

10,274


13,245



35 years


Americare of Winchester

Winchester

IN

—


6,039

—


6,039

6,769


6,752



35 years


Belleville Health Care Center

Belleville

KS

—


4,170

—


4,170

4,760


4,740



35 years


Oak Ridge Acres

Hiawatha

KS

—



—








35 years


Smokey Hill Rehab Center

Salina

KS

—


3,705

—


3,705

4,065


4,034



35 years


Westwood Manor

Topeka

KS

—


3,735

—


3,735

3,985


3,966



35 years


Infinia at Wichita

Wichita

KS

—


13,065

—


13,065

13,415


13,360



35 years


Jackson Manor

Annville

KY

—


4,442

—


4,442

4,573


3,917



35 years


Colonial Health & Rehabilitation Center

Bardstown

KY

—


2,829

—


2,829

2,867


2,449



35 years


Green Valley Health & Rehabilitation Center

Carrollton

KY

—


2,325

—


2,325

2,354


2,011



35 years


Summit Manor Health & Rehabilitation Center

Columbia

KY

—


12,510

—


12,510

12,548

1,847

10,701



35 years


Glasgow Health & Rehabilitation Center

Glasgow

KY

—


2,997

—


2,997

3,018


2,576



35 years


Professional Care Health & Rehabilitation Center

Hartford

KY

—


7,905

—


7,905

7,927

1,167

6,760



35 years


Hart County Health Center

Horse Cave

KY

—


6,059

—


6,059

6,127


5,233



35 years


Heritage Hall Health & Rehabilitation Center

Lawrenceburg

KY

—


3,920

—


3,920

3,958


3,379



35 years


Tanbark Health & Rehabilitation Center

Lexington

KY

—


6,061

—


6,061

6,929


6,034



35 years


Jefferson Manor

Louisville

KY

—

2,169

4,075

—

2,169

4,075

6,244


5,642



35 years


Jefferson Place

Louisville

KY

—

1,307

9,175

—

1,307

9,175

10,482

1,354

9,128



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Meadowview Health & Rehabilitation Center

Louisville

KY

—


4,666

—


4,666

4,983


4,294



35 years


Rockford Health & Rehabilitation Center

Louisville

KY

—


9,568

—


9,568

9,932

1,412

8,520



35 years


Summerfield Health & Rehabilitation Center

Louisville

KY

—

1,089

10,756

—

1,089

10,756

11,845

1,588

10,257



35 years


McCreary Health & Rehabilitation Center

Pine Knot

KY

—


2,443

—


2,443

2,516


2,155



35 years


North Hardin Health & Rehabilitation Center

Radcliff

KY

—


11,944

—


11,944

12,162

1,763

10,399



35 years


Monroe Health & Rehabilitation Center

Tompkinsville

KY

—


8,756

—


8,756

8,788

1,293

7,495



35 years


Wingate at Andover

Andover

MA

—

1,450

14,798

—

1,450

14,798

16,248


16,855



35 years


Wingate at Brighton

Brighton

MA

—

1,070

7,383

—

1,070

7,383

8,453


9,963



35 years


Danvers Nursing and Rehab

Danvers

MA

—


8,388

—


8,388

9,108


9,040



35 years


Chestnut Hill Rehab & Nursing

East Longmeadow

MA

—

3,050

5,392

—

3,050

5,392

8,442


14,497



35 years


Wingate at Haverhill

Haverville

MA

—


9,288

—


9,288

10,098


10,774



35 years


Skilled Care Center at Silver Lake

Kingston

MA

—

3,230

19,870

—

3,230

19,870

23,100


22,988



35 years


Wentworth Skilled Care Center

Lowell

MA

—


11,220

—


11,220

12,040


12,373



35 years


Wingate at Needham

Needham

MA

—


9,236

—


9,236

10,156


12,404



35 years


Wingate at Reading

Reading

MA

—


7,499

—


7,499

8,419


9,155



35 years


Wingate at South Hadley

South Hadley

MA

—

1,870

15,572

—

1,870

15,572

17,442


17,373



35 years


Ring East

Springfield

MA

—

1,250

13,561

—

1,250

13,561

14,811


15,188



35 years


Wingate at Sudbury

Sudbury

MA

—

1,540

8,100

—

1,540

8,100

9,640


11,669



35 years


Riverdale Gardens Rehab & Nursing

West Springfield

MA

—

2,140

6,997

—

2,140

6,997

9,137


12,799



35 years


Wingate at Wilbraham

Wilbraham

MA

—

4,070

10,777

—

4,070

10,777

14,847


14,812



35 years


Worcester Skilled Care Center

Worcester

MA

—


10,958

—


10,958

11,578


13,369



35 years


Cumberland Villa Nursing Center

Cumberland

MD

—


23,970

—


23,970

24,630


24,556



35 years


Colton Villa

Hagerstown

MD

—

1,550

16,973

—

1,550

16,973

18,523


18,466



35 years


Westminster Nursing & Convalescent Center

Westminster

MD

—

2,160

15,931

—

2,160

15,931

18,091


18,047



35 years


Waters of Park Point

Duluth

MN

—

2,920

8,271

—

2,920

8,271

11,191


12,328



35 years


Hopkins Healthcare

Hopkins

MN

—

4,470

21,409

—

4,470

21,409

25,879


25,863



35 years


Andrew Care Home

Minneapolis

MN

—

3,280

5,083

—

3,280

5,083

8,363


8,312



35 years


Golden Living Center—Rochester East

Rochester

MN

—


3,497

—


3,497

4,136

3,549




28 years


Ashland Healthcare

Ashland

MO

—


4,400

—


4,400

5,170


5,232



35 years


South Hampton Place

Columbia

MO

—


11,279

—


11,279

11,989


11,952



35 years


Dixon Nursing & Rehab

Dixon

MO

—


3,342

—


3,342

3,912


3,897



35 years


Current River Nursing

Doniphan

MO

—


7,703

—


7,703

8,153


8,115



35 years


Forsyth Care Center

Forsyth

MO

—


6,731

—


6,731

7,441


7,406



35 years


Maryville Health Care Center

Maryville

MO

—


5,825

—


5,825

6,455


6,906



35 years


Glenwood Healthcare

Seymour

MO

—


3,737

—


3,737

4,407


4,393



35 years


Silex Community Care

Silex

MO

—


2,689

—


2,689

3,419


3,408



35 years


Bellefontaine Gardens

St. Louis

MO

—

1,610

4,314

—

1,610

4,314

5,924


5,910



35 years


Gravios Nursing Center

St. Louis

MO

—

1,560

10,582

—

1,560

10,582

12,142


12,318



35 years


Strafford Care Center

Strafford

MO

—

1,670

8,251

—

1,670

8,251

9,921


9,907



35 years


Windsor Healthcare

Windsor

MO

—


3,345

—


3,345

3,855


4,014



35 years


Lakewood Manor

Hendersonville

NC

—

1,610

7,759

—

1,610

7,759

9,369


9,342



35 years


Lopatcong Center

Phillipsburg

NJ

—

1,490

12,336

—

1,490

12,336

13,826

3,679

10,147



30 years


Hearthstone of Northern Nevada

Sparks

NV

—

1,400

9,365

—

1,400

9,365

10,765


10,724



35 years


Wingate at St. Francis

Beacon

NY

—

1,900

18,115

—

1,900

18,115

20,015


21,343



35 years


Garden Gate

Cheektowaga

NY

—


15,643

—


15,643

16,403


16,662



35 years


Brookhaven

East Patchogue

NY

—

1,100

25,840

—

1,100

25,840

26,940


26,860



35 years


Wingate at Dutchess

Fishkill

NY

—

1,300

19,685

—

1,300

19,685

20,985


21,918



35 years


Autumn View

Hamburg

NY

—

1,190

24,687

—

1,190

24,687

25,877


31,810



35 years


Wingate at Ulster

Highland

NY

—

1,500

18,223

—

1,500

18,223

19,723


19,648



35 years


North Gate

North Tonawanda

NY

—

1,010

14,801

—

1,010

14,801

15,811


15,741



35 years


Seneca

West Seneca

NY

—

1,400

13,491

—

1,400

13,491

14,891


14,838



35 years


Harris Hill

Williamsville

NY

—

1,240

33,574

—

1,240

33,574

34,814


34,711



35 years


Burlington House

Cincinnati

OH

—


5,087

—


5,087

6,005

1,331

4,674



35 years


Regency Manor

Columbus

OH

—


16,424

—


16,424

17,030

4,304

12,726



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Rosewood Manor (OH)

Galion

OH

—


6,324

—


6,324

6,864


6,834



35 years


Marietta Convalescent Center

Marietta

OH

—


3,266



3,341

3,499

2,495

1,004



25 years


Horizon Village (Gillette's)

Warren

OH

—

1,100

8,196

—

1,100

8,196

9,296


9,458



35 years


Whispering Pines Healthcare Center

Washington Ct House

OH

—


13,460

—


13,460

13,950


13,902



35 years


Boardman Comm CC Little Forest

Youngstown

OH

—


5,960

—


5,960

6,340


7,262



35 years


Western Hills Health Care Center

Lawton

OK

—



—



1,200


1,152



35 years


Willow Park Health Care Center

Lawton

OK

—


12,164

—


12,164

12,464


12,406



35 years


Temple Manor Nursing Home

Temple

OK

—


1,779

—


1,779

2,079


2,067



35 years


Tuttle Care Center

Tuttle

OK

—


1,377

—


1,377

1,527


1,905



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Coos Bay

Coos Bay

OR

—

1,920

3,394

—

1,920

3,394

5,314


5,319



35 years


Avamere Riverpark of Eugene

Eugene

OR

—

1,960

17,622

—

1,960

17,622

19,582


19,555



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Eugene

Eugene

OR

—

1,080

7,257

—

1,080

7,257

8,337


8,319



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Clackamas

Gladstone

OR

—


3,844

—


3,844

4,664


4,654



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Hillsboro

Hillsboro

OR

—

1,390

8,628

—

1,390

8,628

10,018


10,000



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Junction City

Junction City

OR

—


5,583

—


5,583

6,173


6,159



35 years


Avamere Rehab of King City

King City

OR

—

1,290

10,646

—

1,290

10,646

11,936


11,917



35 years


Avamere Rehab of Lebanon

Lebanon

OR

—


12,954

—


12,954

13,934


13,910



35 years


Newport Rehabilitation & Specialty Care Center

Newport

OR

—


3,420

—


3,420

3,800


3,755

N/A


35 years


Avamere Crestview of Portland

Portland

OR

—

1,610

13,942

—

1,610

13,942

15,552


15,529



35 years


Avamere Twin Oaks of Sweet Home

Sweet Home

OR

—


4,536

—


4,536

4,826


4,813



35 years


Balanced Care at Bloomsburg

Bloomsburg

PA

—


1,371

—


1,371

1,992


1,790



35 years


The Belvedere

Chester

PA

—


7,203

—


7,203

8,025

2,134

5,891



30 years


Mountain View Nursing Home

Greensburg

PA

—


12,817

—


12,817

13,397


15,409



35 years


Laurels Health & Rehab at Kingston

Kingston

PA

—


4,197

—


4,197

5,107


5,090



35 years


Laurels Health & Rehab at Mid Valley

Peckville

PA

—


2,348

—


2,348

2,698


2,685



35 years


Pennsburg Manor

Pennsburg

PA

—

1,091

7,871

—

1,091

7,871

8,962

2,403

6,559



30 years


Chapel Manor

Philadelphia

PA

—

1,595

13,982

1,358

1,595

15,340

16,935

4,143

12,792



30 years


Wayne Center

Wayne

PA

—


6,872



7,722

8,384

2,187

6,197



30 years


Epic- Bayview

Beaufort

SC

—


14,311

—


14,311

15,201


15,136



35 years


Dundee Nursing Home

Bennettsville

SC

—


8,693

—


8,693

9,013


8,970



35 years


Epic-Conway

Conway

SC

—

1,090

16,880

—

1,090

16,880

17,970


17,900



35 years


Mt. Pleasant Nursing Center

Mt. Pleasant

SC

—

1,810

9,079

—

1,810

9,079

10,889


10,858



35 years


Firesteel

Mitchell

SD

—


15,360

—


15,360

16,050


15,996



35 years


Fountain Springs Healthcare Center

Rapid City

SD

—


28,647

—


28,647

29,587


29,527



35 years


Brookewood Health Care Center

Decatur

TN

—


4,617

—


4,617

5,087


5,060



35 years


Tri-State Comp Care Center

Harrogate

TN

—

1,520

11,515

—

1,520

11,515

13,035


13,004



35 years


Green Acres—Baytown

Baytown

TX

—


9,104

—


9,104

9,594


9,563



35 years


Allenbrook Healthcare

Baytown

TX

—


11,304

—


11,304

11,774


11,731



35 years


Summer Place Nursing and Rehab

Beaumont

TX

—

1,160

15,934

—

1,160

15,934

17,094


17,041



35 years


Green Acres—Center

Center

TX

—


5,446

—


5,446

5,646


5,616



35 years


Regency Nursing Home

Clarksville

TX

—


8,711

—


8,711

9,091


9,050



35 years


Park Manor—Conroe

Conroe

TX

—

1,310

22,318

—

1,310

22,318

23,628


23,996



35 years


Trisun Care Center Westwood

Corpus Christi

TX

—


8,624

—


8,624

9,064


9,029



35 years


Trisun Care Center River Ridge

Corpus Christi

TX

—


7,695

—


7,695

8,585


10,324



35 years


Heritage Oaks West

Corsicana

TX

—


15,806

—


15,806

16,316


16,257



35 years


Park Manor

DeSoto

TX

—

1,080

14,484

—

1,080

14,484

15,564


15,509



35 years


Hill Country Care

Dripping Springs

TX

—


3,973

—


3,973

4,713


5,713



35 years


Sandstone Ranch

El Paso

TX

—

1,580

8,396

—

1,580

8,396

9,976


9,915



35 years


Pecan Tree Rehab & Healthcare

Gainesville

TX

—


11,499

—


11,499

11,929


12,587



35 years


Pleasant Valley Health & Rehab

Garland

TX

—

1,040

9,383

—

1,040

9,383

10,423


11,167



35 years


Upshur Manor

Gilmer

TX

—


8,126

—


8,126

8,896


9,475



35 years


Beechnut Manor

Houston

TX

—

1,080

12,030

—

1,080

12,030

13,110


13,065



35 years


Park Manor—Cypress Station

Houston

TX

—

1,450

19,542

—

1,450

19,542

20,992


20,941



35 years


Park Manor of Westchase

Houston

TX

—

2,760

16,715

—

2,760

16,715

19,475


19,444



35 years


Park Manor—Cyfair

Houston

TX

—

1,720

14,717

—

1,720

14,717

16,437


16,400



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Green Acres—Humble

Humble

TX

—

2,060

6,738

—

2,060

6,738

8,798


8,780



35 years


Park Manor—Humble

Humble

TX

—

1,650

17,257

—

1,650

17,257

18,907


18,862



35 years


Green Acres—Huntsville

Huntsville

TX

—


2,568

—


2,568

2,858


3,672



35 years


Legend Oaks Healthcare

Jacksonville

TX

—


9,639

—


9,639

10,399


10,361



35 years


Avalon Kirbyville

Kirbyville

TX

—


7,713

—


7,713

7,973


7,931



35 years


Millbrook Healthcare

Lancaster

TX

—


7,480

—


7,480

8,230


8,551



35 years


Nexion Health at Linden

Linden

TX

—


3,495

—


3,495

4,175


4,860



35 years


SWLTC Marshall Conroe

Marshall

TX

—


10,093

—


10,093

10,903


10,856



35 years


McKinney Healthcare & Rehab

McKinney

TX

—

1,450

10,345

—

1,450

10,345

11,795


11,759



35 years


Homestead of McKinney

McKinney

TX

—

1,540

11,049

—

1,540

11,049

12,589


12,544



35 years


Midland Nursing Center

Midland

TX

—


13,311

—


13,311

13,841


13,796



35 years


Park Manor of Quail Valley

Missouri

TX

—

1,920

16,841

—

1,920

16,841

18,761


18,721



35 years


Nexion Health at Mt. Pleasant

Mount Pleasant

TX

—


5,050

—


5,050

5,570


5,863



35 years


Nexion Health at New Boston

New Boston

TX

—


4,718

—


4,718

5,078


5,171



35 years


Nexion Health at Omaha

Omaha

TX

—


2,455

—


2,455

2,905


3,212



35 years


The Meadows Nursing and Rehab

Orange

TX

—


10,777

—


10,777

11,157


11,108



35 years


Cypress Glen Nursing and Rehab

Port Arthur

TX

—

1,340

14,142

—

1,340

14,142

15,482


15,426



35 years


Cypress Glen East

Port Arthur

TX

—


10,663

—


10,663

11,153


11,171



35 years


Trisun Care Center Coastal Palms

Portland

TX

—


8,548

—


8,548

8,938


9,426



35 years


Legend Oaks Healthcare San Angelo

San Angelo

TX

—


12,282

—


12,282

13,152


13,108



35 years


Parklane West

San Antonio

TX

—


10,242

—


10,242

11,012


10,964



35 years


San Pedro Manor

San Antonio

TX

—


11,498

—


11,498

12,238


12,188



35 years


Nexion Health at Sherman

Sherman

TX

—


6,636

—


6,636

6,886


6,848



35 years


Avalon Trinity

Trinity

TX

—


9,413

—


9,413

9,743


9,698



35 years


Renfro Nursing Home

Waxahachie

TX

—


7,602

—


7,602

8,112


8,067



35 years


Avalon Wharton

wharton

TX

—


5,107

—


5,107

5,377


5,339



35 years


Infinia at Granite Hills

Salt Lake City

UT

—


1,247

—


1,247

1,987


1,974



35 years


Sleepy Hollow Manor

Annandale

VA

—

7,210

13,562

—

7,210

13,562

20,772


22,099



35 years


The Cedars Nursing Home

Charlottesville

VA

—

2,810

10,763

—

2,810

10,763

13,573


13,553



35 years


Avis Adams

Emporia

VA

—


7,492



7,508

8,128


8,092



35 years


Walnut Hill Convalescent Center

Petersburg

VA

—


11,597

—


11,597

12,527


12,491



35 years


Battlefield Park Convalescent Center

Petersburg

VA

—

1,010

12,489

—

1,010

12,489

13,499


13,463



35 years


Twin Oaks

South Boston

VA

—


2,553

—


2,553

2,953


2,939



35 years


St. Francis of Bellingham

Bellingham

WA

—

1,740

23,581

—

1,740

23,581

25,321


25,286



35 years


Evergreen North Cascades

Bellingham

WA

—

1,220

7,554

—

1,220

7,554

8,774


10,118



35 years


Everett Rehabilitation & Care

Everett

WA

—

2,750

27,337

—

2,750

27,337

30,087


29,994



35 years


Avamere Georgian Lakewood

Lakewood

WA

—


3,896

—


3,896

4,516


4,500



35 years


SunRise Care & Rehab Moses Lake

Moses Lake

WA

—


17,439

—


17,439

18,099


18,045



35 years


SunRise Care & Rehab Lake Ridge

Moses Lake

WA

—


8,866

—


8,866

9,526


9,497



35 years


Richmond Beach Rehab

Seattle

WA

—

2,930

16,199

—

2,930

16,199

19,129


19,134



35 years


Avamere Olympic Rehab of Sequim

Sequim

WA

—


16,896

—


16,896

17,486


17,442



35 years


Shelton Nursing Home

Shelton

WA

—


8,570

—


8,570

9,080


9,048



35 years


Avamere Heritage Rehab of Tacoma

Tacoma

WA

—

1,760

4,616

—

1,760

4,616

6,376


6,370



35 years


Avamere Skilled Nursing Tacoma

Tacoma

WA

—

1,320

1,544

—

1,320

1,544

2,864


2,849



35 years


Cascade Park Care Center

Vancouver

WA

—

1,860

14,854

—

1,860

14,854

16,714


16,659



35 years


Chilton Health and Rehab

Chilton

WI

—


6,114

—


6,114

6,554


6,523



35 years


Florence Villa

Florence

WI

—


5,631

—


5,631

5,971


5,945



35 years


Western Village

Green Bay

WI

—

1,310

4,882

—

1,310

4,882

6,192


7,570



35 years


Greendale Health & Rehab

Sheboygan

WI

—


1,941

—


1,941

2,821


3,402



35 years


South Shore Manor

St. Francis

WI

—


2,300

—


2,300

2,930


2,923



35 years


Waukesha Springs (Westmoreland)

Waukesha

WI

—

1,380

16,205

—

1,380

16,205

17,585


17,498



35 years


Wisconsin Dells Health & Rehab

Wisconsin Dells

WI

—


18,994

—


18,994

19,724


19,680



35 years


Logan Center

Logan

WV

—


12,959

—


12,959

13,259


13,220



35 years


Ravenswood Healthcare Center

Ravenswood

WV

—


12,710

—


12,710

13,030


12,992



35 years


Valley Center

South Charleston

WV

—


24,115

—


24,115

24,865


24,789



35 years


White Sulphur

White Sulphur

WV

—


13,055

—


13,055

13,305


13,263



35 years

TOTAL NON-KINDRED SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES

—

216,234

2,093,287

2,299

216,234

2,095,586

2,311,820

77,131

2,317,306

TOTAL FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES

—

266,968

2,637,598

1,919

266,588

2,639,897

2,906,485

460,144

2,528,958



Gross Amount Carried

at Close of Period

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

KINDRED HOSPITALS


Kindred Hospital—Arizona—Phoenix

Phoenix

AZ

—


3,359

—


3,359

3,585

2,320

1,265



30 years


Kindred Hospital—Scottsdale

Scottsdale

AZ

—

2,310

6,322

—

2,310

6,322

8,632


10,142



35 years


Kindred Hospital—Tucson

Tucson

AZ

—


3,091

—


3,091

3,221

2,565




25 years


Kindred Hospital—Brea

Brea

CA

—

3,144

2,611

—

3,144

2,611

5,755

1,049

4,706



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Ontario

Ontario

CA

—


2,988

—


2,988

3,511

2,433

1,078



25 years


Kindred Hospital—San Diego

San Diego

CA

—


11,764

—


11,764

12,434

9,987

2,447



25 years


Kindred Hospital—San Francisco Bay Area

San Leandro

CA

—

2,735

5,870

—

2,735

5,870

8,605

5,711

2,894



25 years


Kindred Hospital—Westminster

Westminster

CA

—


7,384

—


7,384

8,111

7,055

1,056



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Denver

Denver

CO

—


6,367

—


6,367

7,263

6,051

1,212



20 years


Kindred Hospital—South Florida—Coral Gables

Coral Gables

FL

—

1,071

5,348

—

1,071

5,348

6,419

4,435

1,984



30 years


Kindred Hospital—South Florida Ft. Lauderdale

Ft. Lauderdale

FL

—

1,758

14,080

—

1,758

14,080

15,838

11,939

3,899

N/A


30 years


Kindred Hospital—North Florida

Green Cove Springs

FL

—


4,613

—


4,613

4,758

3,745

1,013



20 years


Kindred Hospital—South Florida—Hollywood

Hollywood

FL

—


5,229

—


5,229

5,834

4,639

1,195



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Central Tampa

Tampa

FL

—

2,732

7,676

—

2,732

7,676

10,408

4,080

6,328



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Bay Area St. Petersburg

St. Petersburg

FL

—

1,401

16,706

—

1,401

16,706

18,107

12,144

5,963



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Chicago (North Campus)

Chicago

IL

—

1,583

19,980

—

1,583

19,980

21,563

16,508

5,055



25 years


Kindred—Chicago—Lakeshore

Chicago

IL

—

1,513

9,525

—

1,513

9,525

11,038

9,253

1,785



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Chicago (Northlake Campus)

Northlake

IL

—


6,498

—


6,498

7,348

4,974

2,374



30 years


Kindred Hospital—Sycamore

Sycamore

IL

—


8,549

—


8,549

8,626

6,632

1,994



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Indianapolis

Indianapolis

IN

—


3,801

—


3,801

4,786

2,900

1,886



30 years


Kindred Hospital—Louisville

Louisville

KY

—

3,041

12,279

—

3,041

12,279

15,320

10,676

4,644



20 years


Kindred Hospital—New Orleans

New Orleans

LA

—


4,971

—


4,971

5,619

3,892

1,727



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Boston

Boston

MA

—

1,551

9,796

—

1,551

9,796

11,347

8,438

2,909



25 years


Kindred Hospital—Boston North Shore

Peabody

MA

—


7,568

—


7,568

8,111

4,660

3,451



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Kansas City

Kansas City

MO

—


2,914

—


2,914

3,191

2,321


N/A


30 years


Kindred Hospital—St. Louis

St Louis

MO

—

1,126

2,087

—

1,126

2,087

3,213

1,668

1,545



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Greensboro

Greensboro

NC

—

1,010

7,586

—

1,010

7,586

8,596

6,698

1,898



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Albuquerque

Albuquerque

NM

—


4,253

—


4,253

4,264

2,306

1,958



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Las Vegas (Sahara)

Las Vegas

NV

—

1,110

2,177

—

1,110

2,177

3,287

1,100

2,187



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Oklahoma City

Oklahoma City

OK

—


5,607

—


5,607

5,900

3,820

2,080



30 years


Kindred Hospital—Pittsburgh

Oakdale

PA

—


12,854

—


12,854

13,516

8,027

5,489



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Philadelphia

Philadelphia

PA

—


5,223

—


5,223

5,358

2,626

2,732

N/A


35 years


Kindred Hospital—Chattanooga

Chattanooga

TN

—


4,415

—


4,415

5,171

3,527

1,644



22 years


Kindred Hospital—Tarrant County (Fort Worth Southwest)

Ft. Worth

TX

—

2,342

7,458

—

2,342

7,458

9,800

6,929

2,871



20 years


Kindred Hospital—Fort Worth

Ft. Worth

TX

—


10,608

—


10,608

11,256

7,595

3,661



34 years


Kindred Hospital (Houston Northwest)

Houston

TX

—

1,699

6,788

—

1,699

6,788

8,487

4,415

4,072



40 years


Kindred Hospital—Houston

Houston

TX

—


7,062

—


7,062

7,095

5,768

1,327

N/A


20 years


Kindred Hospital—Mansfield

Mansfield

TX

—


2,462

—


2,462

2,729

1,651

1,078



40 years


Kindred Hospital—San Antonio

San Antonio

TX

—


11,413

—


11,413

11,662

7,329

4,333



30 years

TOTAL FOR KINDRED HOSPITALS

—

40,482

279,282

—

40,482

279,282

319,764

211,973

109,408



Gross Amount Carried

at Close of Period

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

NON-KINDRED HOSPITALS


Southern Arizone Rehab

Tucson

AZ

—


25,589

—


25,589

26,359


26,335



35 years


HealthBridge Children's Hospital

Orange

CA

—

1,330

9,317

—

1,330

9,317

10,647


10,640



35 years


HealthSouth Rehabilitation Hospital

Tustin

CA

—

2,810

25,248

—

2,810

25,248

28,058


31,125



35 years


Gateway Rehabilitation Hospital at Florence

Florence

KY

—

3,600

4,924

—

3,600

4,924

8,524


7,797



35 years


The Ranch/Touchstone

Conroe

TX

—

2,710

28,428

—

2,710

28,428

31,138


31,124



35 years


Highlands Regional Rehabilitation Hospital

El Paso

TX

—

1,900

23,616

—

1,900

23,616

25,516

3,486

22,030



35 years


Houston Children's Hospital

Houston

TX

—

1,800

15,770

—

1,800

15,770

17,570


17,563



35 years


Beacon Specialty Hospital

The Woodlands

TX

—


6,498

—


6,498

7,458


7,455



35 years

TOTAL FOR NON-KINDRED HOSPITALS

—

15,880

139,390

—

15,880

139,390

155,270

5,887

154,069

TOTAL FOR HOSPITALS

—

56,362

418,672

—

56,362

418,672

475,034

217,860

263,477

BROOKDALE SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES


Cedar Springs (aka Decatur)

Decatur

AL

—

1,960

7,916

—

1,960

7,916

9,876


9,793



35 years


Hanceville

Hanceville

AL

—


3,822

—


3,822

4,352


4,451



35 years


Wellington Place at Muscle Shoals

Muscle Shoals

AL

—


4,017

—


4,017

4,357


5,245



35 years


Sterling House of Chandler

Chandler

AZ

—

2,000

6,538

—

2,000

6,538

8,538


8,505



35 years


Park Regency Premier Club

Chandler

AZ

—

2,260

19,338

—

2,260

19,338

21,598


22,612



35 years


The Springs of East Mesa

Mesa

AZ

—

2,747

24,918

—

2,747

24,918

27,665

7,012

20,653



35 years


Sterling House of Mesa

Mesa

AZ

—


6,998

—


6,998

7,653

1,942

5,711



35 years


Clare Bridge of Oro Valley

Oro Valley

AZ

—


6,169

—


6,169

6,835

1,711

5,124



35 years


Sterling House of Peoria

Peoria

AZ

—


4,872

—


4,872

5,470

1,352

4,118



35 years


Clare Bridge of Tempe

Tempe

AZ

—


4,066

—


4,066

4,677

1,128

3,549



35 years


Sterling House on East Speedway

Tucson

AZ

—


4,745

—


4,745

5,251

1,316

3,935



35 years


Woodside Terrace

Redwood City

CA

—

7,669

66,691

—

7,669

66,691

74,360

19,035

55,325



35 years


The Atrium

San Jose

CA

24,194

6,240

66,329

—

6,240

66,329

72,569

17,758

54,811



35 years


Brookdale Place

San Marcos

CA

—

4,288

36,204

—

4,288

36,204

40,492

10,439

30,053



35 years


Ridge Point Assisted Living Inn

Boulder

CO

—

1,290

20,683

—

1,290

20,683

21,973


21,847



35 years


Wynwood of Colorado Springs

Colorado Springs

CO

—


9,279

—


9,279

9,994

2,574

7,420



35 years


Heritage Club at Denver

Denver

CO

24,038

1,680

91,751

—

1,680

91,751

93,431

1,380

92,804



35 years


Wynwood of Pueblo

Pueblo

CO

5,207


9,403

—


9,403

10,243

2,609

7,634



35 years


The Gables at Farmington

Farmington

CT

10,160

3,995

36,310

—

3,995

36,310

40,305

10,211

30,094



35 years


Chatfield

West Hartford

CT

—

2,493

22,833

—

2,493

22,833

25,326

6,405

18,921



35 years


Clare Bridge of Ft. Myers

Ft. Myers

FL

—

1,510

7,862

—

1,510

7,862

9,372


10,086



35 years


Wellington Place at Ft Walton

Ft. Walton

FL

—

2,610

11,041

—

2,610

11,041

13,651


13,592



35 years


Sterling House of Merrimac

Jacksonville

FL

—


16,745

—


16,745

17,605


17,513



35 years


Clare Bridge of Jacksonville

Jacksonville

FL

—

1,300

9,659

—

1,300

9,659

10,959


10,908



35 years


Clare Bridge of Leesburg

Leesburg

FL

—

1,050

8,140

—

1,050

8,140

9,190


9,115



35 years


Sterling House of Ormond Beach

Ormond Beach

FL

—

1,660

9,738

—

1,660

9,738

11,398


11,349



35 years


Sterling House of Palm Coast

Palm Coast

FL

—


9,187

—


9,187

9,657


9,600



35 years


Sterling House of Pensacola

Pensacola

FL

—


6,087

—


6,087

6,720

1,689

5,031



35 years



Gross Amount Carried

at Close of Period

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Sterling House of Englewood (FL)

Rotunda West

FL

—

1,740

4,331

—

1,740

4,331

6,071


6,102



35 years


Clare Bridge of Tallahassee

Tallahassee

FL

4,624


6,168

—


6,168

6,835

1,711

5,124



35 years


Sterling House of Tavares

Tavares

FL

—


15,980

—


15,980

16,260


16,167



35 years


Renaissance of Titusville

Titusville

FL

—

2,330

9,435

—

2,330

9,435

11,765


11,872



35 years


Clare Bridge of West Melbourne

West Melbourne

FL

6,589


5,481

—


5,481

6,067

1,521

4,546



35 years


The Classic at West Palm Beach

West Palm Beach

FL

26,100

3,758

33,072

—

3,758

33,072

36,830

9,402

27,428



35 years


Clare Bridge Cottage of Winter Haven

Winter Haven

FL

—


3,006

—


3,006

3,238


2,404



35 years


Sterling House of Winter Haven

Winter Haven

FL

—


5,549

—


5,549

5,987

1,540

4,447



35 years


Wynwood of Twin Falls

Twin Falls

ID

—


6,153

—


6,153

6,856

1,707

5,149



35 years


The Hallmark

Chicago

IL

—

11,057

107,517

—

11,057

107,517

118,574

29,582

88,992



35 years


The Kenwood of Lake View

Chicago

IL

11,472

3,072

26,668

—

3,072

26,668

29,740

7,617

22,123



35 years


The Heritage

Des Plaines

IL

32,000

6,871

60,165

—

6,871

60,165

67,036

17,133

49,903



35 years


Devonshire of Hoffman Estates

Hoffman Estates

IL

—

3,886

44,130

—

3,886

44,130

48,016

11,590

36,426



35 years


The Devonshire

Lisle

IL

33,000

7,953

70,400

—

7,953

70,400

78,353

19,973

58,380



35 years


Seasons at Glenview

Northbrook

IL

—

1,988

39,762

—

1,988

39,762

41,750

9,303

32,447



35 years


Hawthorn Lakes

Vernon Hills

IL

—

4,439

35,044

—

4,439

35,044

39,483

10,349

29,134



35 years


The Willows

Vernon Hills

IL

—

1,147

10,041

—

1,147

10,041

11,188

2,859

8,329



35 years


Sterling House of Evansville

Evansville

IN

3,709


3,765

—


3,765

4,122

1,044

3,078



35 years


Berkshire of Castleton

Indianapolis

IN

—

1,280

11,515

—

1,280

11,515

12,795

3,249

9,546



35 years


Sterling House of Marion

Marion

IN

—


3,570

—


3,570

3,777


2,787



35 years


Sterling House of Michigan City

Michigan City

IN

—


4,007

—


4,007

4,537


4,680



35 years


Clare Bridge of Michigan City

Michigan City

IN

—


2,632

—


2,632

3,142


3,266



35 years


Sterling House of Portage

Portage

IN

—


3,649

—


3,649

3,777

1,012

2,765



35 years


Sterling House of Richmond

Richmond

IN

—


4,124

—


4,124

4,619

1,144

3,475



35 years


Sterling House of Derby

Derby

KS

—


4,422

—


4,422

4,862


4,835



35 years


Clare Bridge of Leawood

Leawood

KS

3,778


5,127

—


5,127

5,244

1,422

3,822



35 years


Sterling House of Salina II

Salina

KS

—


5,657

—


5,657

5,957


5,920



35 years


Clare Bridge Cottage of Topeka

Topeka

KS

5,059


6,825

—


6,825

7,195

1,893

5,302



35 years


Sterling House of Wellington

Wellington

KS

—


2,434

—


2,434

2,744


2,727



35 years


River Bay Club

Quincy

MA

—

6,101

57,862

—

6,101

57,862

63,963

16,048

47,915



35 years


Woven Hearts of Davison

Davidson

MI

—


3,189

—


3,189

3,349


3,370



35 years


Clare Bridge of Delta Charter

Delta

MI

—


11,471

—


11,471

12,201


12,135



35 years


Woven Hearts of Delta Charter

Delta

MI

—


3,313

—


3,313

4,133


4,099



35 years


Clare Bridge of Farmington Hills I

Farmington Hills

MI

—


10,497

—


10,497

11,077


10,995



35 years


Clare Bridge of Farmington Hills II

Farmington Hills

MI

—


10,246

—


10,246

10,946


10,860



35 years


Clare Bridge of Grand Blanc I

Grand Blanc

MI

—


12,373

—


12,373

12,823


12,747



35 years


Wynwood of Grand Blanc II

Grand Blanc

MI

—


14,627

—


14,627

15,247


15,156



35 years


Wynwood of Meridian Lansing II

Haslett

MI

—

1,340

6,134

—

1,340

6,134

7,474


7,847



35 years


Wynwood of Northville

Northville

MI

7,439


6,068

—


6,068

6,475

1,684

4,791



35 years


Clare Bridge of Troy I

Troy

MI

—


17,178

—


17,178

17,808


17,707



35 years


Wynwood of Troy II

Troy

MI

—


12,503

—


12,503

13,453


14,589



35 years


Wynwood of Utica

Utica

MI

—

1,142

11,808

—

1,142

11,808

12,950

3,276

9,674



35 years


Clare Bridge of Utica

Utica

MI

—


8,657

—


8,657

9,357


9,973



35 years


Sterling House of Blaine

Blaine

MN

—


1,675

—


1,675

1,825


1,360



35 years


Clare Bridge of Eden Prairie

Eden Prairie

MN

—


6,228

—


6,228

6,529

1,728

4,801



35 years



Gross Amount Carried

at Close of Period

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Edina Park Plaza

Edina

MN

16,348

3,621

33,141

—

3,621

33,141

36,762

9,299

27,463



35 years


Woven Hearts of Faribault

Faribault

MN

—


1,085

—


1,085

1,615


1,985



35 years


Sterling House of Inver Grove Heights

Inver Grove Heights

MN

2,914


2,655

—


2,655

2,908


2,171



35 years


Woven Hearts of Mankato

Mankato

MN

—



—





1,343



35 years


Clare Bridge of North Oaks

North Oaks

MN

—

1,057

8,296

—

1,057

8,296

9,353

2,301

7,052



35 years


Sterling House of Owatonna

Owatonna

MN

—



—





1,011



35 years


Clare Bridge of Owatonna

Owatonna

MN

—


1,189

—


1,189

1,739


1,868



35 years


Clare Bridge of Plymouth

Plymouth

MN

—


8,675

—


8,675

9,354

2,407

6,947



35 years


Woven Hearts of Sauk Rapids

Sauk Rapids

MN

—


3,178

—


3,178

3,658


3,638



35 years


Woven Hearts of Wilmar

Wilmar

MN

—


4,833

—


4,833

5,303


5,275



35 years


Woven Hearts of Winona

Winona

MN

—


1,390

—


1,390

2,190


2,432



35 years


Wellington Place of Greenville

Greenville

MS

—


1,522

—


1,522

2,122


2,981



35 years


Clare Bridge of Cary

Cary

NC

—


6,466

—


6,466

7,190

1,794

5,396



35 years


Sterling House of Hickory

Hickory

NC

—


10,981

—


10,981

11,311


11,244



35 years


Clare Bridge of Winston-Salem

Winston-Salem

NC

—


3,497

—


3,497

3,865


2,895



35 years


Sterling House of Deptford

Deptford

NJ

—

1,190

5,482

—

1,190

5,482

6,672


7,662



35 years


Brendenwood

Voorhees

NJ

18,180

3,158

29,909

—

3,158

29,909

33,067

8,298

24,769



35 years


Clare Bridge of Westampton

Westampton

NJ

—


4,741

—


4,741

5,622

1,315

4,307



35 years


Ponce de Leon

Santa Fe

NM

—

—

28,178

—

—

28,178

28,178

7,516

20,662



35 years


Westwood Assisted Living

Sparks

NV

—

1,040

7,376

—

1,040

7,376

8,416


8,876



35 years


Westwood Active Retirement

Sparks

NV

—

1,520

9,280

—

1,520

9,280

10,800


11,612



35 years


Villas of Sherman Brook

Clinton

NY

—


7,528

—


7,528

8,475

2,088

6,387



35 years


Wynwood of Kenmore

Kenmore

NY

13,871

1,487

15,170

—

1,487

15,170

16,657

4,209

12,448



35 years


Wynwood of Liberty (Manlius)

Manlius

NY

—


28,237

—


28,237

29,127


28,952



35 years


Clare Bridge of Niskayuna

Niskayuna

NY

—

1,021

8,333

—

1,021

8,333

9,354

2,312

7,042



35 years


Wynwood of Niskayuna

Niskayuna

NY

17,473

1,884

16,103

—

1,884

16,103

17,987

4,467

13,520



35 years


Clare Bridge of Perinton

Pittsford

NY

—


4,066

—


4,066

4,677

1,128

3,549



35 years


The Gables at Brighton

Rochester

NY

—

1,131

9,498

—

1,131

9,498

10,629

2,744

7,885



35 years


Villas of Summerfield

Syracuse

NY

—

1,132

11,434

—

1,132

11,434

12,566

3,172

9,394



35 years


Clare Bridge of Williamsville

Williamsville

NY

7,171


3,841

—


3,841

4,680

1,066

3,614



35 years


Sterling House of Alliance

Alliance

OH

2,372


6,283

—


6,283

6,675

1,743

4,932



35 years


Clare Bridge Cottage of Austintown

Austintown

OH

—


3,087

—


3,087

3,238


2,382



35 years


Sterling House of Barberton

Barberton

OH

—


10,884

—


10,884

11,324


11,259



35 years


Sterling House of Beaver Creek

Beavercreek

OH

—


5,381

—


5,381

5,968

1,493

4,475



35 years


Sterling House of Westerville

Columbus

OH

1,929


3,600

—


3,600

3,867


2,868



35 years


Sterling House of Englewood (OH)

Englewood

OH

—


6,477

—


6,477

7,107


7,066



35 years



Gross Amount Carried

at Close of Period

Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Sterling House of Greenville

Greenville

OH

—


4,144

—


4,144

4,634


6,130



35 years


Sterling House of Lancaster

Lancaster

OH

—


4,662

—


4,662

5,122


5,339



35 years


Sterling House of Marion

Marion

OH

—


3,306

—


3,306

3,926


4,420



35 years


Sterling House of Salem

Salem

OH

—


4,659

—


4,659

5,293

1,292

4,001



35 years


Sterling House of Springdale

Springdale

OH

—

1,140

9,134

—

1,140

9,134

10,274


10,224



35 years


Sterling House of Bartlesville

Bartlesville

OK

—


10,529

—


10,529

10,779


10,717



35 years


Sterling House of Bethany

Bethany

OK

—


1,499

—


1,499

1,889


1,994



35 years


Sterling House of Broken Arrow

Broken Arrow

OK

—


6,312

—


6,312

7,252


7,218



35 years


Clare Bridge of Beaverton

Beaverton

OR

—

3,280

20,590

—

3,280

20,590

23,870


23,697



35 years


Clare Bridge of Bend

Bend

OR

—

1,800

14,443

—

1,800

14,443

16,243


16,112



35 years


Forest Grove Residential Community

Forest Grove

OR

—

2,320

9,633

—

2,320

9,633

11,953


11,894



35 years


The Heritage at Mt. Hood

Gresham

OR

—

2,410

9,093

—

2,410

9,093

11,503


11,449



35 years


McMinnville Residential Estates

McMinnville

OR

2,328

1,230

7,561

—

1,230

7,561

8,791


8,726



35 years


Clare Bridge of Troutdale

Troutdale

OR

—

1,400

9,501

—

1,400

9,501

10,901


10,818



35 years


Clare Bridge of Dublin

Dublin

PA

—

1,010

7,249

—

1,010

7,249

8,259


8,193



35 years


Homewood Residence at Deane Hill

Knoxville

TN

—

1,150

15,705

—

1,150

15,705

16,855


16,745



35 years


Wellington Place at Newport

Newport

TN

—


4,046

—


4,046

4,866


5,452



35 years


Trinity Towers

Corpus Christi

TX

—

1,920

71,661

—

1,920

71,661

73,581

1,116

73,162



35 years


Sterling House of Denton

Denton

TX

—

1,750

6,712

—

1,750

6,712

8,462


8,432



35 years


Sterling House of Ennis

Ennis

TX

—


3,284

—


3,284

3,744


3,843



35 years


Broadway Plaza at Westover Hill

Ft. Worth

TX

—

1,660

25,703

—

1,660

25,703

27,363


27,213



35 years


Hampton at Pearland

Houston

TX

—

1,250

12,869

—

1,250

12,869

14,119


14,550



35 years


Hampton at Pinegate

Houston

TX

—

3,440

15,913

—

3,440

15,913

19,353


19,267



35 years


Hampton at Shadowlake

Houston

TX

—

2,520

13,770

—

2,520

13,770

16,290


16,996



35 years


Hampton at Spring Shadow

Houston

TX

—

1,250

15,760

—

1,250

15,760

17,010


16,914



35 years


Sterling House of Kerrville

Kerrville

TX

—


8,548

—


8,548

9,008


8,957



35 years


Sterling House of Lancaster

Lancaster

TX

—


1,478

—


1,478

1,888


2,745



35 years


Sterling House of Paris

Paris

TX

—


2,411

—


2,411

2,771


3,316



35 years


Sterling House of San Antonio

San Antonio

TX

—

1,400

10,051

—

1,400

10,051

11,451


11,397



35 years


Sterling House of Temple

Temple

TX

—


5,081

—


5,081

5,411


5,374



35 years


Clare Bridge of Lynwood

Lynwood

WA

—

1,219

9,573

—

1,219

9,573

10,792

2,656

8,136



35 years


Clare Bridge of Puyallup

Puyallup

WA

10,110

1,055

8,298

—

1,055

8,298

9,353

2,302

7,051



35 years


Columbia Edgewater

Richland

WA

—


23,270

—


23,270

24,230


24,080



35 years


Park Place

Spokane

WA

—

1,622

12,895

—

1,622

12,895

14,517

3,798

10,719



35 years


Crossings at Allenmore

Tacoma

WA

—


16,186

—


16,186

16,806


16,703



35 years


Union Park at Allenmore

Tacoma

WA

—

1,710

3,326

—

1,710

3,326

5,036


7,992



35 years


Crossings at Yakima

Yakima

WA

—


15,276

—


15,276

16,136


16,041



35 years


Sterling House of Fond du Lac

Fond du Lac

WI

—


1,603

—


1,603

1,799


1,354



35 years


Clare Bridge of Kenosha

Kenosha

WI

—


5,431

2,772


8,203

8,754

1,773

6,981



35 years


Woven Hearts of Kenosha

Kenosha

WI

—


1,694

—


1,694

2,324


2,314



35 years


Clare Bridge Cottage of La Crosse

LaCrosse

WI

—


4,056

1,126


5,182

5,803

1,234

4,569



35 years


Sterling House of La Crosse

LaCrosse

WI

—


5,831

2,637


8,468

9,112

1,873

7,239



35 years


Sterling House of Middleton

Middleton

WI

—


5,041

—


5,041

5,401


5,371



35 years


Woven Hearts of Neenah

Neenah

WI

—


1,030

—


1,030

1,370


1,904



35 years


Woven Hearts of Onalaska

Onalaska

WI

—


4,949

—


4,949

5,199


5,233



35 years


Woven Hearts of Oshkosh

Oshkosh

WI

—


1,904

—


1,904

2,064


2,049



35 years


Woven Hearts of Sun Prairie

Sun Prairie

WI

—


1,131

—


1,131

1,481


1,471



35 years

TOTAL FOR BROOKDALE SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES

290,065

205,440

2,035,251

6,535

205,440

2,041,786

2,247,226

334,939

1,940,858



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

SUNRISE SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES


Sunrise of Scottsdale

Scottsdale

AZ

—

2,229

27,575


2,238

27,741

29,979

3,990

25,989



35 years


Sunrise of Sunnyvale

Sunnyvale

CA

—

2,933

34,361


2,933

34,666

37,599

5,085

32,514



35 years


Sunrise of Westlake Village

Westlake Village

CA

—

4,935

30,722


4,943

31,054

35,997

4,464

31,533



35 years


Sunrise at Yorba Linda

Yorba Linda

CA

—

1,689

25,240


1,689

25,529

27,218

3,675

23,543



35 years


Sunrise at La Costa

Carlsbad

CA

—

4,890

20,590


4,898

21,075

25,973

3,650

22,323



35 years


Sunrise of San Mateo

San Mateo

CA

—

2,682

35,335

1,017

2,682

36,352

39,034

5,104

33,930



35 years


Sunrise at Canyon Crest

Riverside

CA

12,064

5,486

19,658


5,505

20,290

25,795

3,302

22,493



35 years


Sunrise of Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo

CA

11,182

3,802

24,560


3,812

24,980

28,792

3,990

24,802



35 years


Sunrise of Pacific Palisades

Pacific Palisades

CA

8,039

4,458

17,064


4,458

17,456

21,914

2,987

18,927



35 years


Sunrise at Sterling Canyon

Valencia

CA

18,045

3,868

29,293

3,157

3,914

32,404

36,318

4,901

31,417



35 years


Sunrise of Fair Oaks

Fair Oaks

CA

11,434

1,456

23,679

1,008

2,166

23,977

26,143

3,834

22,309



35 years


Sunrise of Rocklin

Rocklin

CA

—

1,378

23,565


1,397

23,857

25,254

3,488

21,766



35 years


Sunrise at Cherry Creek

Denver

CO

—

1,621

28,370


1,621

28,875

30,496

4,301

26,195



35 years


Sunrise at Pinehurst

Denver

CO

—

1,417

30,885


1,417

31,517

32,934

5,060

27,874



35 years


Sunrise at Orchard

Littleton

CO

11,358

1,813

22,183


1,813

22,743

24,556

3,642

20,914



35 years


Sunrise of Westminster

Westminster

CO

8,131

2,649

16,243


2,675

16,647

19,322

2,772

16,550



35 years


Sunrise of Stamford

Stamford

CT

—

4,612

28,533


4,612

29,338

33,950

4,664

29,286



35 years


Sunrise at East Cobb

Marietta

GA

10,207

1,797

23,420


1,798

23,814

25,612

3,682

21,930



35 years


Sunrise of Huntcliff I

Atlanta

GA

33,035

4,232

66,161

4,245

4,240

70,398

74,638

10,196

64,442



35 years


Sunrise of Huntcliff II

Atlanta

GA

5,321

2,154

17,137


2,154

17,581

19,735

2,727

17,008



35 years


Sunrise of Ivey Ridge

Alpharetta

GA

5,540

1,507

18,516


1,507

19,044

20,551

3,098

17,453



35 years


Sunrise of Park Ridge

Park Ridge

IL

—

5,533

39,557


5,547

39,942

45,489

5,876

39,613



35 years


Sunrise of Lincoln Park

Chicago

IL

—

3,485

26,687


3,485

26,877

30,362

3,800

26,562



35 years


Sunrise of Glen Ellyn

Glen Ellyn

IL

—

2,455

34,064


2,470

34,573

37,043

5,454

31,589



35 years


Sunrise of Naperville

Naperville

IL

—

1,946

28,538


1,960

29,137

31,097

4,664

26,433



35 years


Sunrise of Willowbrook

Willowbrook

IL

20,038

1,454

60,738

1,035

1,973

61,254

63,227

7,445

55,782



35 years


Sunrise of Bloomingdale

Bloomingdale

IL

18,627

1,287

38,625


1,296

39,098

40,394

5,882

34,512



35 years


Sunrise of Buffalo Grove

Buffalo Grove

IL

14,765

2,154

28,021


2,189

28,522

30,711

4,424

26,287



35 years


Sunrise of Palos Park

Palos Park

IL

20,404

2,363

42,205


2,363

42,665

45,028

6,459

38,569



35 years


Sunrise of Baton Rouge

Baton Rouge

LA

8,722

1,212

23,547


1,212

24,119

25,331

3,671

21,660



35 years


Sunrise of Norwood

Norwood

MA

—

2,230

30,968


2,240

31,770

34,010

4,546

29,464



35 years


Sunrise of Arlington

Arlington

MA

18,682


34,393



34,793

34,879

5,375

29,843



35 years


Sunrise of Columbia

Columbia

MD

—

1,780

23,083

1,066

1,852

24,077

25,929

3,470

22,459



35 years


Sunrise of Rockville

Rockville

MD

—

1,039

39,216


1,061

39,853

40,914

5,511

35,403



35 years


Sunrise of North Ann Arbor

Ann Arbor

MI

—

1,703

15,857


1,668

16,331

17,999

2,591

15,408



35 years


Sunrise of Troy

Troy

MI

—

1,758

23,727


1,761

23,938

25,699

3,865

21,834



35 years


Sunrise of Bloomfield

Bloomfield Hills

MI

—

3,736

27,657

1,216

3,737

28,872

32,609

4,258

28,351



35 years


Sunrise of Northville

Plymouth

MI

14,918

1,445

26,090


1,460

26,556

28,016

4,144

23,872



35 years


Sunrise of Rochester

Rochester

MI

18,614

2,774

38,666


2,774

39,049

41,823

5,935

35,888



35 years


Sunrise of Edina

Edina

MN

9,637

3,181

24,224

1,554

3,184

25,775

28,959

3,992

24,967



35 years


Sunrise at North Hills

Raleigh

NC

—


37,091



37,675

38,426

5,491

32,935



35 years


Sunrise on Providence

Charlotte

NC

—

1,976

19,472


1,981

20,058

22,039

3,136

18,903



35 years


Sunrise of Morris Plains

Morris Plains

NJ

19,284

1,492

32,052


1,492

32,453

33,945

4,856

29,089



35 years


Sunrise of Old Tappan

Old Tappan

NJ

17,909

2,985

36,795


2,985

37,070

40,055

5,517

34,538



35 years


Sunrise of Wayne

Wayne

NJ

14,226

1,288

24,990


1,290

25,518

26,808

3,845

22,963



35 years


Sunrise of Westfield

Westfield

NJ

18,851

5,057

23,803


5,057

24,377

29,434

3,731

25,703



35 years


Sunrise of East Brunswick

East Brunswick

NJ

—

2,784

26,173


2,784

26,784

29,568

4,387

25,181



35 years


Sunrise of Woodcliff Lake

Woodcliff Lake

NJ

—

3,493

30,801


3,496

31,077

34,573

5,088

29,485



35 years


Sunrise of Wall

Wall

NJ

10,331

1,053

19,101


1,055

19,476

20,531

3,095

17,436



35 years


Sunrise of New City

New City

NY

—

1,906

27,323


1,906

27,886

29,792

4,254

25,538



35 years


Sunrise of North Lynbrook

Lynbrook

NY

—

4,622

38,087


4,678

38,795

43,473

6,266

37,207



35 years


Sunrise at Fleetwood

Mount Vernon

NY

13,388

4,381

28,434


4,394

29,006

33,400

4,617

28,783



35 years


Sunrise of Smithtown

Smithtown

NY

13,923

2,853

25,621


3,027

26,357

29,384

4,533

24,851



35 years


Sunrise of Staten Island

Staten Island

NY

—

7,237

23,910

(286

)

7,281

23,580

30,861

4,515

26,346



35 years


Sunrise of Cuyahoga Falls

Cuyahoga Falls

OH

—


10,239



10,473

11,099

1,720

9,379



35 years


Sunrise at Parma

Cleveland

OH

—


16,641



16,973

17,668

2,565

15,103



35 years


Sunrise at Granite Run

Media

PA

11,698

1,272

31,781


1,272

32,315

33,587

4,682

28,905



35 years


Sunrise of Abington

Abington

PA

24,226

1,838

53,660


1,862

54,483

56,345

8,060

48,285



35 years


Sunrise of Haverford

Haverford

PA

7,601


25,872



26,394

27,345

3,952

23,393



35 years


Sunrise of Westtown

West Chester

PA

—

1,547

22,996


1,562

23,527

25,089

4,086

21,003



35 years


Sunrise of Exton

Exton

PA

—

1,123

17,765


1,151

18,267

19,418

2,971

16,447



35 years


Sunrise of Blue Bell

Blue Bell

PA

8,981

1,765

23,920


1,807

24,687

26,494

3,944

22,550



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Sunrise of Hillcrest

Dallas

TX

—

2,616

27,680


2,616

27,824

30,440

4,122

26,318



35 years


Sunrise of Sandy

Sandy

UT

—

2,576

22,987

(272

)

2,608

22,683

25,291

3,437

21,854



35 years


Sunrise of Springfield

Springfield

VA

8,703

4,440

18,834


4,441

19,595

24,036

3,034

21,002



35 years


Sunrise of Richmond

Richmond

VA

—

1,120

17,446


1,137

18,088

19,225

2,938

16,287



35 years


Sunrise of Alexandria

Alexandria

VA

5,672


14,811



15,340

15,455

2,818

12,727



35 years


Sunrise of Victoria

Victoria

BC

13,990

8,332

29,970

(706

)

8,116

29,480

37,596

4,319

33,277



35 years


Sunrise of Lynn Valley

Vancouver

BC

14,719

11,759

37,424

(1,150

)

11,445

36,588

48,033

5,214

42,819



35 years


Sunrise of Vancouver

Vancouver

BC

—

6,649

31,937


6,653

32,178

38,831

4,922

33,909



35 years


Sunrise of Unionville

Markham

ON

14,921

2,322

41,140

(657

)

2,299

40,506

42,805

5,703

37,102



35 years


Sunrise of Mississauga

Mississauga

ON

13,057

3,554

33,631

(646

)

3,500

33,039

36,539

4,742

31,797



35 years


Sunrise of Burlington

Burlington

ON

—

1,173

24,448


1,173

24,600

25,773

3,540

22,233



35 years


Sunrise of Oakville

Oakville

ON

—

2,753

37,489


2,753

37,856

40,609

5,374

35,235



35 years


Sunrise of Richmond Hill

Richmond Hill

ON

12,300

2,155

41,254

(924

)

2,100

40,385

42,485

5,688

36,797



35 years


Sunrise of Windsor

Windsor

ON

—

1,813

20,882


1,833

21,110

22,943

3,141

19,802



35 years


Sunrise of Aurora

Aurora

ON

—

1,570

36,113

(783

)

1,531

35,369

36,900

5,208

31,692



35 years


Sunrise of Erin Mills

Mississauga

ON

—

1,957

27,020

(575

)

1,905

26,497

28,402

4,178

24,224



35 years


Thorne Mill of Steeles

Vaughan

ON

—

2,563

57,513

1,561

1,401

60,236

61,637

7,628

54,009



35 years

TOTAL FOR SUNRISE SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES

522,543

212,352

2,286,059

39,252

212,519

2,325,144

2,537,663

351,291

2,186,801

ATRIA SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES


Atria Regency

Mobile

AL

6,216


11,897



11,904

12,854


12,836



35 years


Atria Campana Del Rio

Tucson

AZ

25,471

5,861

37,284


5,861

37,493

43,354

1,037

43,061



35 years


Atria Valley Manor

Tucson

AZ

3,278

1,709



1,709


1,788


1,904



35 years


Atria Bell Court Gardens

Tucson

AZ

19,611

3,010

30,969


3,010

30,977

33,987


33,719



35 years


Atria Chandler Villas

Chandler

AZ

8,277

3,650

8,450


3,650

8,468

12,118


11,939



35 years


Atria Covina

Covina

CA

—


4,131



4,138

4,308


4,400



35 years


Atria Chateau Gardens

San Jose

CA

—








2,037



35 years


Atria Collwood

San Diego

CA

—


10,650



10,652

10,942


12,462



35 years


Atria Palm Desert

Palm Desert

CA

3,523

2,887

9,843


2,887

9,961

12,848


12,780



35 years


Atria Covell Gardens

Davis

CA

20,427

2,163

39,657


2,163

40,096

42,259


41,893



35 years


Atria Golden Creek

Irvine

CA

11,813

6,900

23,544


6,900

23,594

30,494


30,471



35 years


Atria Hillcrest

Thousand Oaks

CA

21,589

6,020

25,635

1,168

6,020

26,803

32,823


32,712



35 years


Atria Bayside Landing

Stockton

CA

—

—



—




2,724



35 years


Atria Chateau San Juan

San Juan Capistrano

CA

—

5,110

29,436

5,074

5,110

34,510

39,620


39,405



35 years


Atria El Camino Gardens

Carmichael

CA

—

6,930

32,318


6,930

32,374

39,304


39,426



35 years


Atria Hacienda

Palm Desert

CA

—

6,680

85,900


6,680

86,417

93,097

1,503

92,427



35 years


Atria Hillsdale

San Mateo

CA

9,252

5,240

15,956


5,240

15,960

21,200


21,243



35 years


Atria Rancho Park

San Dimas

CA

—

4,066

14,306


4,066

14,366

18,432


18,410



35 years


Atria Tamalpais Creek

Novato

CA

—

5,812

24,703


5,812

24,707

30,519


30,602



35 years


Atria Del Rey

Rancho Cucamonga

CA

—

3,290

17,427

1,733

3,290

19,160

22,450


22,477



35 years


Atria Del Sol

Mission Viejo

CA

5,966

3,500

12,458


3,500

12,459

15,959


16,034



35 years


Atria Encinitas

Encinitas

CA

—

5,880

9,212


5,880

9,236

15,116


15,228



35 years


Atria Willow Glen

San Jose

CA

—

8,521

43,168


8,521

43,175

51,696


53,286



35 years


Atria Burlingame

Burlingame

CA

7,661

2,494

12,373


2,494

12,468

14,962


15,002



35 years


Atria Sunnyvale

Sunnyvale

CA

8,814

6,120

30,068


6,120

30,646

36,766


36,466



35 years


Atria Montego Heights

Walnut Creek

CA

—

6,910

15,797

(18

)

6,910

15,779

22,689


22,688



35 years


Atria Daly City

Daly City

CA

7,778

3,090

13,448

—

3,090

13,448

16,538


16,497



35 years


Atria Valley View

Walnut Creek

CA

19,216

7,139

53,914


7,139

54,017

61,156

1,621

60,135



35 years


Atria Las Posas

Camarillo

CA

—

4,500

28,436


4,500

28,453

32,953


32,815



35 years


Atria Inn at Lakewood

Lakewood

CO

23,377

6,281

50,095


6,281

50,099

56,380

1,107

56,062



35 years


Atria Stratford

Stratford

CT

16,373

3,210

27,865


3,210

27,942

31,152


31,038



35 years


Atria Darien

Darien

CT

21,280


37,587



37,900

38,553


38,367



35 years


Atria Stamford

Stamford

CT

39,594

1,200

62,432


1,200

62,631

63,831

1,396

63,385



35 years


Atria Crossroads Place

Waterford

CT

25,158

2,401

36,495


2,401

36,688

39,089


38,797



35 years


Atria Greenridge Place

Rocky Hill

CT

17,259

2,170

32,553


2,170

32,568

34,738


34,573



35 years


Atria Hamilton Heights

West Hartford

CT

14,187

3,120

14,674


3,120

14,878

17,998


17,964



35 years


Atria Larson Place

Hamden

CT

11,569

1,850

16,098


1,850

16,124

17,974


17,885



35 years


Atria San Pablo

Jacksonville

FL

5,943

1,620

14,920


1,620

14,927

16,547


16,513



35 years


The Heritage at Lake Forest

Sanford

FL

—

3,589

32,586


3,589

32,591

36,180


36,828



35 years


Atria Evergreen Woods

Spring Hill

FL

10,975

2,370

28,371


2,370

28,398

30,768


30,551



35 years


Atria Windsor Woods

Hudson

FL

14,552

1,610

32,432


1,610

32,502

34,112


33,787



35 years


Atria Baypoint Village

Hudson

FL

17,178

2,083

28,841


2,083

28,858

30,941


30,712



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Atria Johnson Ferry

Marietta

GA

3,895


6,453



6,467

7,457


7,476



35 years


Atria Buckhead

Atlanta

GA

4,987

3,660

5,274

—

3,660

5,274

8,934


9,039



35 years


Atria Newburgh

Newburgh

IN

4,798

1,150

22,880


1,150

22,883

24,033


23,878



35 years


Atria Eastlake Terrace

Elkhart

IN

—








1,764



35 years


Atria Tanglewood Trace

Mishawaka

IN

—

—



—




1,483



35 years


Atria Hearthstone East

Topeka

KS

7,732

1,150

20,544


1,150

20,556

21,706


21,599



35 years


Atria Hearthstone West

Topeka

KS

9,468

1,230

28,379


1,230

28,388

29,618


29,322



35 years


Atria St. Matthews

Louisville

KY

7,878


9,274



9,286

10,225


10,155



35 years


Atria Elizabethtown

Elizabethtown

KY

5,632


12,510



12,514

13,364


13,308



35 years


Atria Highland Crossing

Fort Wright

KY

11,728

1,677

14,393


1,677

14,469

16,146


16,019



35 years


Atria Summit Hills

Crestview Hills

KY

6,448

1,780

15,769


1,780

15,770

17,550


17,493



35 years


Atria Stony Brook

Louisville

KY

9,606

1,860

17,561


1,860

17,568

19,428


19,347



35 years


Atria Springdale

Louisville

KY

10,867

1,410

16,702


1,410

16,704

18,114


18,033



35 years


Atria Falmouth

Falmouth

MA

—

4,630

—

3,877

4,630

3,877

8,507

—

8,507

CIP


CIP


Atria Woodbriar

Falmouth

MA

14,657

1,970

43,693


1,970

43,706

45,676


45,508



35 years


Atria Fairhaven (Alden)

Fairhaven

MA

11,901

1,100

16,093


1,100

16,095

17,195


17,173



35 years


Atria Draper Place

Hopedale

MA

13,884

1,140

17,794


1,140

17,800

18,940


18,890



35 years


Atria Longmeadow Place

Burlington

MA

24,122

5,310

58,021


5,310

58,037

63,347

1,262

62,907



35 years


Atria Marina Place

North Quincy

MA

29,587

2,590

33,899


2,590

33,967

36,557


36,258



35 years


Atria Marland Place

Andover

MA

—

1,831

34,592


1,831

34,664

36,495


36,284



35 years


Atria Merrimack Place

Newburyport

MA

19,461

2,774

40,645


2,774

40,659

43,433


43,177



35 years


Atria Manresa

Annapolis

MD

6,620

4,193

19,000


4,193

19,044

23,237


23,232



35 years


Atria Salisbury

Salisbury

MD

6,350

1,940

24,500


1,940

24,517

26,457


26,372



35 years


Atria Kennebunk

Kennebunk

ME

9,140

1,090

23,496


1,090

23,503

24,593


24,458



35 years


Atria Kinghaven

Riverview

MI

14,404

1,440

26,260


1,440

26,269

27,709


27,555



35 years


Atria Merrywood

Charlotte

NC

21,416

1,678

36,892


1,678

36,934

38,612


38,223



35 years


Atria Cranford

Cranford

NJ

27,714

8,260

61,411


8,260

61,476

69,736

1,411

69,464



35 years


Atria Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls

NJ

9,662

6,580

13,258


6,580

13,287

19,867


19,935



35 years


Atria Summit Ridge

Reno

NV

—











35 years


Atria Sunlake

Las Vegas

NV

—








3,950



35 years


Atria Sutton

Las Vegas

NV

—

—



—




4,106



35 years


Atria Seville

Las Vegas

NV

—

—



—




4,251



35 years


Atria 86th Street

New York

NY

33,148


73,685



73,764

73,844

1,698

82,176



35 years


Atria Great Neck

Great Neck

NY

15,315

3,390

54,051


3,390

54,065

57,455

1,175

57,274



35 years


Atria Kew Gardens

Jamaica

NY

29,533

3,051

66,013


3,051

66,121

69,172

1,424

68,798



35 years


Atria Briarcliff Manor

Briarcliff Manor

NY

15,254

6,560

33,885


6,560

33,949

40,509


40,457



35 years


Atria Riverdale

Bronx

NY

22,914

1,020

24,149


1,020

24,178

25,198


25,075



35 years


Atria Shaker

Albany

NY

13,087

1,520

29,667


1,520

29,672

31,192


31,028



35 years


Atria South Setauket

South Setauket

NY

—

8,450

14,534


8,450

14,542

22,992


23,271



35 years


Atria Huntington

Huntington Station

NY

6,887

8,190

1,169


8,190

1,183

9,373


9,535



35 years


Atria Penfield

Penfield

NY

6,562


22,036



22,047

22,667


22,482



35 years


Atria Greece

Rochester

NY

4,023


14,967



15,055

15,465


15,395



35 years


Atria Lynbrook

Lynbrook

NY

7,080

3,145

5,489


3,145

5,503

8,648


8,802



35 years


Atria Crossgate

Albany

NY

4,547

1,080

20,599


1,080

20,614

21,694


21,580



35 years


Atria East Northport

East Northport

NY

—

9,960

34,467


9,960

34,658

44,618


44,562



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Atria Rye Brook

Rye Brook

NY

45,613

9,660

74,936


9,660

74,997

84,657

1,676

84,131



35 years


Atria on Roslyn Harbor

Roslyn

NY

65,325

12,909

72,720


12,909

72,725

85,634

1,582

85,246



35 years


Atria Cutter Mill

Great Neck

NY

36,605

2,750

47,919


2,750

48,012

50,762

1,093

50,519



35 years


Atria Glen Cove

Glen Cove

NY

11,705

2,035

25,190


2,035

25,840

27,875


27,170



35 years


Atria Bay Shore

Bay Shore

NY

15,275

4,440

31,983


4,440

31,986

36,426


36,296



35 years


Atria Forest Hills

Forest Hills

NY

12,500

2,050

16,680


2,050

16,706

18,756


18,756



35 years


Atria Plainview

Plainview

NY

14,299

2,480

16,060

—

2,480

16,060

18,540


18,582



35 years


Atria Tanglewood

Lynbrook

NY

27,175

4,120

37,348


4,120

37,353

41,473


41,305



35 years


Atria Woodlands

Ardsley

NY

47,967

7,660

65,581


7,660

65,681

73,341

1,492

73,127



35 years


Atria Guilderland

Slingerlands

NY

—

1,170

22,414


1,170

22,418

23,588


23,510



35 years


Atria on the Hudson

Ossining

NY

—

8,123

63,089

1,476

8,123

64,565

72,688

1,461

71,455



35 years


Atria Bethlehem

Bethlehem

PA

13,312

2,479

22,870


2,479

22,950

25,429


25,342



35 years


Atria South Hills

Pittsburgh

PA

5,132


10,884



10,887

11,767


11,772



35 years


Atria Center City

Philadelphia

PA

24,738

3,460

18,291


3,460

18,314

21,774


21,776



35 years


Atria Woodbridge Place

Phoenixville

PA

12,432

1,510

19,130


1,510

19,143

20,653


20,629



35 years


Atria Bay Spring Village

Barrington

RI

14,162

2,000

33,400


2,000

33,934

35,934


35,594



35 years


Atria Aquidneck Place

Portsmouth

RI

—

2,810

31,623


2,810

31,635

34,445


34,378



35 years


Atria Harborhill Place

East Greenwich

RI

—

2,089

21,702


2,089

21,713

23,802


23,825



35 years


Atria Lincoln Place

Lincoln

RI

—

1,440

12,686


1,440

12,696

14,136


14,100



35 years


Atria Forest Lake

Columbia

SC

5,545


13,946



13,953

14,623


14,569



35 years


Atria Weston Place

Knoxville

TN

10,155


7,961



7,967

8,760


8,772



35 years


Atria Cypresswood

Spring

TX

9,728


9,192



9,211

10,091


10,075



35 years


Atria Kingwood

Kingwood

TX


1,170

4,518


1,170

4,519

5,689


5,719



35 years


Atria Copeland

Tyler

TX

10,544

1,879

17,901


1,879

17,903

19,782


19,624



35 years


Atria Carrollton

Carrollton

TX

7,941


20,465



20,474

20,834


20,888



35 years


Atria Grapevine

Grapevine

TX

10,201

2,070

23,104


2,070

23,110

25,180


25,035



35 years


Atria Sugar Land

Sugar Land

TX

3,081


17,542



17,544

18,514


18,417



35 years


Atria Westchase

Houston

TX

7,056

2,318

22,278


2,318

22,288

24,606


24,474



35 years


Atria Richardson

Richardson

TX

11,214

1,590

23,662


1,590

23,676

25,266


25,112



35 years


Atria Willow Park

Tyler

TX

11,807


31,271



31,299

32,219


31,923



35 years


Atria Sandy

Sandy

UT

13,868

3,356

18,805


3,356

18,824

22,180


22,022



35 years


Atria Virginia Beach (Hilltop)

Virginia Beach

VA

17,629

1,749

33,004


1,749

33,007

34,756


34,489



35 years

TOTAL FOR ATRIA SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES

1,311,988

354,589

2,963,329

19,806

354,589

2,983,135

3,337,724

71,171

3,350,450



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

OTHER SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES


Elmcroft of Grayson Valley

Birmingham

AL

—

1,040

19,145


1,040

19,156

20,196


20,077



35 years


Elmcroft of Byrd Springs

Hunstville

AL

—

1,720

11,270

—

1,720

11,270

12,990


12,917



35 years


Elmcroft of Heritage Woods

Mobile

AL

—

1,020

10,241

—

1,020

10,241

11,261


11,187



35 years


CaraVita Village

Montgomery

AL

—


8,507



9,309

10,088

2,003

8,085



35 years


Elmcroft of Halcyon

Montgomery

AL

—


5,476

—


5,476

5,696


4,888



35 years


Rosewood Manor (AL)

Scottsboro

AL

—


4,038

—


4,038

4,718


4,695



35 years


The Arches

Benton

AR

—


1,462

—


1,462

1,792


2,032



35 years


Elmcroft of Blytheville

Blytheville

AR

—


2,946

—


2,946

3,240


2,805



35 years


West Shores

Hot Springs

AR

—

1,326

10,904

—

1,326

10,904

12,230

2,089

10,141



35 years


Elmcroft of Maumelle

Maumelle

AR

—

1,252

7,601

—

1,252

7,601

8,853

1,122

7,731



35 years


Elmcroft of Mountain Home

Mountain Home

AR

—


8,971

—


8,971

9,175

1,324

7,851



35 years


Elmcroft of Sherwood

Sherwood

AR

—

1,320

5,693

—

1,320

5,693

7,013


6,173



35 years


Chandler Memory Care Community

Chandler

AZ

—

2,910

—

7,944

2,910

7,944

10,854

—

10,854



35 years


Cottonwood Village

Cottonwood

AZ

—

1,200

15,124

—

1,200

15,124

16,324

2,865

13,459



35 years


Silver Creek Inn Memory Care Community

Gilbert

AZ

—

—

—

2,362

—

2,362

2,362

—

2,362

CIP


CIP


Arbor Rose

Mesa

AZ

—

1,100

11,880

1,576

1,100

13,456

14,556


14,485



35 years


Elmcroft of Tempe

Tempe

AZ

—

1,090

12,942


1,090

12,945

14,035


13,946



35 years


Elmcroft of River Centre

Tucson

AZ

—

1,940

5,195

—

1,940

5,195

7,135


7,096



35 years


Emeritus at Fairwood Manor

Anaheim

CA

—

2,464

7,908

—

2,464

7,908

10,372

1,855

8,517



35 years


Careage Banning

Banning

CA

—

2,970

16,037

—

2,970

16,037

19,007


22,680



35 years


Las Villas Del Carlsbad

Carlsbad

CA

—

1,760

30,469

—

1,760

30,469

32,229

4,498

27,731



35 years


Villa Bonita

Chula Vista

CA

—

1,610

9,169

—

1,610

9,169

10,779


14,142



35 years


Emeritus at Barrington Court

Danville

CA

—


4,640

—


4,640

5,000


4,186



35 years


Las Villas Del Norte

Escondido

CA

—

2,791

32,632

—

2,791

32,632

35,423

4,817

30,606



35 years


Alder Bay Assisted Living

Eureka

CA

—

1,170

5,228


1,170

5,255

6,425


6,386



35 years


Elmcroft of La Mesa

La Mesa

CA

—

2,431

6,101

—

2,431

6,101

8,532


7,631



35 years


Grossmont Gardens

La Mesa

CA

—

9,104

59,349

—

9,104

59,349

68,453

8,761

59,692



35 years


Mountview Retirement Residence

Montrose

CA

—

1,089

15,449

—

1,089

15,449

16,538

2,281

14,257



35 years


Villa de Palma

Placentia

CA

—

1,260

10,174

—

1,260

10,174

11,434


14,831



35 years


Wellington Place

Rancho Mirage

CA

—

6,800

3,637

—

6,800

3,637

10,437


11,962



35 years


The Vistas

Redding

CA

—

1,290

22,033

—

1,290

22,033

23,323


23,186



35 years


Emeritus at Roseville Gardens

Roseville

CA

—


2,380

—


2,380

2,600


2,178



35 years


Elmcroft of Point Loma

San Diego

CA

—

2,117

6,865

—

2,117

6,865

8,982

1,013

7,969



35 years


Land of Cortese Assisted Living

San Jose

CA

—

2,700

7,994

—

2,700

7,994

10,694


11,514



35 years


Villa del Obispo

San Juan Capistrano

CA

—

2,660

9,560

—

2,660

9,560

12,220


14,460



35 years


Villa Santa Barbara

Santa Barbara

CA

—

1,219

12,426

—

1,219

12,426

13,645

2,369

11,276



35 years


Maria del Sol

Santa Maria

CA

—

1,950

1,726

—

1,950

1,726

3,676


3,635



35 years


Emeritus at Heritage Place

Tracy

CA

—

1,110

13,296

—

1,110

13,296

14,406

2,689

11,717



35 years


Buena Vista Knolls

Vista

CA

—

1,630

5,640

—

1,630

5,640

7,270


8,444



35 years


Rancho Vista

Vista

CA

—

6,730

21,828

—

6,730

21,828

28,558

3,222

25,336



35 years


Westminster Terrace

Westminster

CA

—

1,700

11,514

—

1,700

11,514

13,214


13,646



35 years


Garden Square at Westlake

Greeley

CO

—


8,211

—


8,211

8,841


8,784



35 years


Garden Square of Greeley

Greeley

CO

—


2,735

—


2,735

3,065


3,197



35 years


Devonshire Acres

Sterling

CO

—


13,569

—


13,569

14,519


14,431



35 years


Gardenside Terrace

Brandford

CT

—

7,000

31,518

—

7,000

31,518

38,518


38,328



35 years


Hearth at Tuxis Pond

Madison

CT

—

1,610

44,322

—

1,610

44,322

45,932


45,633



35 years


Emeritus at South Windsor

South Windsor

CT

—

2,187

12,682

—

2,187

12,682

14,869

2,855

12,014



35 years


Forsyth House

Milton

FL

—


6,503

—


6,503

7,113


7,205



35 years


Hampton Manor Belleview

Belleview

FL

—


8,337

—


8,337

8,727


8,665



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Emeritus at Bonita Springs

Bonita Springs

FL

9,380

1,540

10,783

—

1,540

10,783

12,323

2,932

9,391



35 years


Emeritus at Boynton Beach

Boynton Beach

FL

14,375

2,317

16,218

—

2,317

16,218

18,535

4,211

14,324



35 years


Sabal House

Cantonment

FL

—


5,902

—


5,902

6,332


6,331



35 years


Bristol Park of Coral Springs

Coral Springs

FL

—

3,280

11,877

—

3,280

11,877

15,157


15,086



35 years


Emeritus at Deer Creek

Deerfield

FL

—

1,399

9,791

—

1,399

9,791

11,190

2,929

8,261



35 years


Stanley House

Defuniak Springs

FL

—


5,659

—


5,659

6,069


6,170



35 years


The Peninsula

Hollywood

FL

—

3,660

9,122

—

3,660

9,122

12,782


14,257



35 years


Highland Terrace

Inverness

FL

—


4,108

—


4,108

4,377


3,478



35 years


Elmcroft of Timberlin Parc

Jacksonville

FL

—


5,905

—


5,905

6,360


5,488



35 years


Emeritus at Jensen Beach

Jensen Beach

FL

12,899

1,831

12,820

—

1,831

12,820

14,651

3,468

11,183



35 years


The Carlisle Naples

Naples

FL

37,593

8,406

78,091

—

8,406

78,091

86,497


86,778

N/A


35 years


Hampton Manor at 24th Road

Ocala

FL

—


8,767

—


8,767

9,457


9,401



35 years


Hampton Manor at Deerwood

Ocala

FL

—


5,605

—


5,605

6,395


6,388



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Pensacola

Pensacola

FL

—

2,230

2,362

—

2,230

2,362

4,592


6,938



35 years


Magnolia House

Quincy

FL

—


5,190

—


5,190

5,590


5,555



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Tallahassee

Tallahassee

FL

—

2,430

17,745

—

2,430

17,745

20,175


20,056



35 years


Magnolia Place

Tallahassee

FL

—


8,013

—


8,013

8,653


8,605



35 years


Bristol Park of Tamarac

Tamarac

FL

—

3,920

14,130

—

3,920

14,130

18,050


17,974



35 years


Elmcroft of Carrolwood

Tampa

FL

—

5,410

20,944


5,410

20,946

26,356


26,261



35 years


Augusta Gardens

Augusta

GA

—


10,262

—


10,262

10,792


10,715



35 years


Tara Plantation

Cumming

GA

—

1,381

7,707

—

1,381

7,707

9,088

1,654

7,434



35 years


Peachtree Estates

Dalton

GA

—


5,229

—


5,229

5,730

1,157

4,573



35 years


Elmcroft of Mt. Zion

Jonesboro

GA

—

1,140

15,447

—

1,140

15,447

16,587


16,482



35 years


The Sanctuary at Northstar

Kennesaw

GA

—


5,614

—


5,614

6,520

1,189

5,331



35 years


Greenwood Gardens

Marietta

GA

—


3,132

—


3,132

3,838


3,088



35 years


Elmcroft of Milford Chase

Marietta

GA

—

3,350

7,431

—

3,350

7,431

10,781


10,737



35 years


Elmcroft of Martinez

Martinez

GA

—


6,764

—


6,764

7,172


6,302



35 years


Winterville Retirement

Winterville

GA

—


7,418

—


7,418

7,661

1,552

6,109



35 years


Windsor Court of Carmel

Carmel

IN

—

1,110

1,933

—

1,110

1,933

3,043


5,058



35 years


Azalea Hills

Floyds Knobs

IN

—

2,370

8,708

—

2,370

8,708

11,078


13,108



35 years


Georgetowne Place

Fort Wayne

IN

—

1,315

18,185

—

1,315

18,185

19,500

3,300

16,200



35 years


Greensburg Assisted Living

Greensburg

IN

—


1,764

—


1,764

2,184


2,184



35 years


Summit West

Indianapolis

IN

—

1,240

7,922

—

1,240

7,922

9,162


9,372



35 years


The Harrison

Indianapolis

IN

—

1,200

5,740

—

1,200

5,740

6,940

1,190

5,750



35 years


Towne Centre

Merrillville

IN

—

1,291

27,709

—

1,291

27,709

29,000

8,163

20,837



35 years


Lakeview Commons of Monticello

Monticello

IN

—


5,263

—


5,263

5,513


5,480



35 years


Elmcroft of Muncie

Muncie

IN

—


11,218

—


11,218

11,462

1,442

10,020



35 years


Wood Ridge

South Bend

IN

—


4,850



4,907

5,497


5,462



35 years


Drury Place at Alvamar

Lawrence

KS

—

1,700

9,156

—

1,700

9,156

10,856


10,799



35 years


Drury Place at Salina

Salina

KS

—

1,300

1,738

—

1,300

1,738

3,038


4,091



35 years


Drury Place Retirement Apartments

Topeka

KS

—


6,217

—


6,217

6,607


6,568



35 years


Heritage Woods

Agawam

MA

—

1,249

4,625

—

1,249

4,625

5,874

1,575

4,299



30 years


Summerville at Farm Pond

Framingham

MA

39,311

5,819

33,361

—

5,819

33,361

39,180

6,985

32,195



35 years


Whitehall Estate

Hyannis

MA

6,681

1,277

9,063

—

1,277

9,063

10,340

1,825

8,515



35 years


Wingate at Silver Lake

Kingston

MA

—

3,330

20,624

—

3,330

20,624

23,954


23,777



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Hagerstown

Hagerstown

MD

—

2,010

1,293

—

2,010

1,293

3,303


5,415



35 years


Clover Healthcare

Auburn

ME

—

1,400

26,895

—

1,400

26,895

28,295


28,111



35 years


Gorham House

Gorham

ME

—

1,360

33,147

—

1,360

33,147

34,507


34,335



35 years


Sentry Hill

York

ME

—

3,490

19,869

—

3,490

19,869

23,359


23,270



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Elmcroft of Downriver

Brownstown

MI

9,273


32,652

—


32,652

32,972


32,774



35 years


Elmcroft of Kentwood

Kentwood

MI

—


13,976

—


13,976

14,486


14,379



35 years


Primrose Austin

Austin

MN

—

2,540

11,707

—

2,540

11,707

14,247


14,195



35 years


Primrose Duluth

Duluth

MN

—

6,190

8,296

—

6,190

8,296

14,486


14,912



35 years


Primrose Mankato

Mankato

MN

—

1,860

8,920

—

1,860

8,920

10,780


10,726



35 years


Rose Arbor

Maple Grove

MN

—

1,140

12,421

—

1,140

12,421

13,561

3,680

9,881



35 years


Wildflower Lodge

Maple Grove

MN

—


5,035

—


5,035

5,539

1,497

4,042



35 years


Silver Oak SL of Butler

Butler

MO

—



—



1,168


1,155



35 years


Silver Oak SL of Lamar

Lamar

MO

—

1,650


—

1,650


2,460


2,459



35 years


Silver Oak SL of Nevada I

Nevada

MO

—



—



1,003





35 years


Silver Oak SL of Nevada II

Nevada

MO

—



—



1,114


1,108



35 years


Canyon Creek Inn Memory Care

Billings

MT

—


11,217

—


11,217

11,637


11,547



35 years


Rainbow Retirement Community

Great Falls

MT

—


5,254



5,827

6,213


5,908



35 years


Carillon ALF of Asheboro

Asheboro

NC

—


15,370

—


15,370

16,050


15,952



35 years


Elmcroft of Little Avenue

Charlotte

NC

—


5,077

—


5,077

5,327


4,578



35 years


Carillon ALF of Cramer Mountain

Cramerton

NC

—


18,225

—


18,225

18,755


19,479



35 years


Carillon ALF of Harrisburg

Harrisburg

NC

—

1,660

15,130

—

1,660

15,130

16,790


16,701



35 years


Carillon ALF of Hendersonville

Hendersonville

NC

—

2,210

7,372

—

2,210

7,372

9,582


12,713



35 years


Carillon ALF of Hillsborough

Hillsborough

NC

—

1,450

19,754

—

1,450

19,754

21,204


21,088



35 years


Carillon ALF of Newton

Newton

NC

—


14,935

—


14,935

15,475


16,504



35 years


Elmcroft of Northridge

Raleigh

NC

—


3,592

—


3,592

3,776


3,246



35 years


Carillon ALF of Salisbury

Salisbury

NC

—

1,580

25,026

—

1,580

25,026

26,606


26,459



35 years


Carillon ALF of Shelby

Shelby

NC

—


15,471

—


15,471

16,131


16,257



35 years


Elmcroft of Southern Pines

Southern Pines

NC

—

1,196

10,766

—

1,196

10,766

11,962


11,424



35 years


Carillon ALF of Southport

Southport

NC

—

1,330

10,356

—

1,330

10,356

11,686


14,087



35 years


Primrose Bismarck

Bismarck

ND

—

1,210

9,768

—

1,210

9,768

10,978


10,921



35 years


Crown Pointe

Omaha

NE

—

1,316

11,950

—

1,316

11,950

13,266

2,305

10,961



35 years


Brandywine at Brick

Brick

NJ

—

1,490

16,747

—

1,490

16,747

18,237


18,091



35 years


Elmcroft of Quintessence

Albuquerque

NM

—

1,150

26,527

—

1,150

26,527

27,677


27,521



35 years


Cottonbloom Assisted Living

Las Cruces

NM

—





1,006

1,159


1,080



35 years


Peachtree Village Retirement Community

Roswell

NM

—


2,161



2,354

2,515


2,380



35 years


The Amberleigh

Amherst

NY

—

3,498

19,097

—

3,498

19,097

22,595

3,883

18,712



35 years


Castle Gardens

Vestal

NY

—

1,830

20,312

—

1,830

20,312

22,142


21,993



35 years


Inn at Lakeview

Grovepoint

OH

—


11,220

—


11,220

11,990


13,401



35 years


Elmcroft of Lima

Lima

OH

—


3,368

—


3,368

3,858


3,361



35 years


Elmcroft of Lorain

Lorain

OH

—


15,461

—


15,461

15,961


15,851



35 years


Elmcroft of Ontario

Mansfield

OH

—


7,968

—


7,968

8,491

1,176

7,315



35 years


Summerville at Camelot Place

Medina

OH

—


21,566

—


21,566

21,906


21,758



35 years


Inn at Medina

Medina

OH

—

1,110

24,700

—

1,110

24,700

25,810


25,652



35 years


Elmcroft of Medina

Medina

OH

—


9,788

—


9,788

10,449

1,445

9,004



35 years


Elmcroft of Washington Township

Miamisburg

OH

—

1,235

12,611

—

1,235

12,611

13,846

1,862

11,984



35 years


Hillenvale

Mt. Vernon

OH

—

1,100

12,493

—

1,100

12,493

13,593


14,361



35 years


Elmcroft of Sagamore Hills

Sagamore Hills

OH

—


12,604

—


12,604

13,584

1,861

11,723



35 years


Elmcroft of Xenia

Xenia

OH

—


2,801

—


2,801

3,454


3,040



35 years


Inn at North Hills

Zanesville

OH

—

1,560

11,067

—

1,560

11,067

12,627


14,318



35 years


Elmcroft of Quail Springs

Oklahoma

OK

—


16,632

—


16,632

17,132


17,017



35 years


Southern Hills Nursing Center

Tulsa

OK

—


10,739

—


10,739

11,489


11,377



35 years


Avamere at Hillsboro

Hillsboro

OR

—

4,400

8,353

—

4,400

8,353

12,753


12,735



35 years


Avamere court at Keizer

Keizer

OR

—

1,260

30,183

—

1,260

30,183

31,443


31,317



35 years


The Stafford

Lake Oswego

OR

—

1,800

16,122

—

1,800

16,122

17,922


17,844



35 years


The Pearl at Kruse Way

Lake Oswego

OR

—

2,000

12,880

—

2,000

12,880

14,880


14,842



35 years


Avamere at Three Fountains

Medford

OR

—

2,340

33,187

—

2,340

33,187

35,527


35,407



35 years


Avamere at Newberg

Newberg

OR

—

1,320

4,664

—

1,320

4,664

5,984


5,957



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Avamere Living at Berry Park

Oregon City

OR

—

1,910

4,249

—

1,910

4,249

6,159


6,131



35 years


Avamere at Bethany

Portland

OR

—

3,150

16,740

—

3,150

16,740

19,890


19,826



35 years


Avamere at Sandy

Sandy

OR

—

1,000

7,309

—

1,000

7,309

8,309


8,268



35 years


Suzanne Elise ALF

Seaside

OR

—

1,940

4,027

—

1,940

4,027

5,967


5,940



35 years


Avamere at Sherwood

Sherwood

OR

—

1,010

7,051

—

1,010

7,051

8,061


8,021



35 years


Chateau Gardens

Springfield

OR

—

1,550

4,197

—

1,550

4,197

5,747


5,806



35 years


Avamere at St Helens

St. Helens

OR

—

1,410

10,496

—

1,410

10,496

11,906


11,857



35 years


Elmcroft of Allison Park

Allison Park

PA

—

1,171

5,686

—

1,171

5,686

6,857


6,018



35 years


Elmcroft of Chippewa

Beaver Falls

PA

—

1,394

8,586

—

1,394

8,586

9,980

1,267

8,713



35 years


Elmcroft of Berwick

Berwick

PA

—


6,741

—


6,741

6,852


5,857



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Lakemont

Bridgeville

PA

—

1,660

12,624

—

1,660

12,624

14,284


15,011



35 years


Elmcroft of Dillsburg

Dillsburg

PA

—


7,797

—


7,797

8,229

1,151

7,078



35 years


Elmcroft of Altoona

Duncansville

PA

—


4,729

—


4,729

5,060


4,362



35 years


Moorehead House

Indiana

PA

—


15,804

—


15,804

16,354


16,257



35 years


Laurels at Kingston

Kingston

PA

—

1,020

3,080

—

1,020

3,080

4,100


4,091



35 years


Elmcroft of Lebanon

Lebanon

PA

—


7,336

—


7,336

7,576

1,083

6,493



35 years


Elmcroft of Lewisburg

Lewisburg

PA

—


5,666

—


5,666

5,898


5,062



35 years


Elmcroft of Reedsville

Lewistown

PA

—


5,170

—


5,170

5,359


4,596



35 years


Lehigh Commons

Macungie

PA

—


4,406



4,856

5,276

1,330

3,946



30 years


Elmcroft of Loyalsock

Montoursville

PA

—


3,412

—


3,412

3,825


3,321



35 years


Laurels at Old Forge

Old Forge

PA

—


1,806

—


1,806

2,016


1,992



35 years


Highgate at Paoli Pointe

Paoli

PA

—

1,151

9,079

—

1,151

9,079

10,230

2,578

7,652



30 years


Laurels at Mid Valley

Peckville

PA

—


2,885

—


2,885

3,385


3,509



35 years


Sanatoga Court

Pottstown

PA

—


3,233

—


3,233

3,593


2,597



30 years


Berkshire Commons

Reading

PA

—


4,301

—


4,301

4,771

1,322

3,449



30 years


Elmcroft of Reading

Reading

PA

—


4,942

—


4,942

5,580


4,850



35 years


Elmcroft of Saxonburg

Saxonburg

PA

—


5,949

—


5,949

6,719


5,841



35 years


Mifflin Court

Shillington

PA

—


4,265



4,616

5,305

1,084

4,221



35 years


Elmcroft of Shippensburg

Shippensburg

PA

—


7,634

—


7,634

7,837

1,127

6,710



35 years


Elmcroft of State College

State College

PA

—


7,407

—


7,407

7,727

1,093

6,634



35 years


Laurels at Wyoming

Wyoming

PA

—


2,107

—


2,107

2,247


2,400



35 years


Outlook Pointe at York

York

PA

—

1,260

6,923

—

1,260

6,923

8,183


8,340



35 years


Langston House

Clinton

SC

—


1,773

—


1,773

2,243


2,224



35 years


Elmcroft of Florence SC

Florence

SC

—


7,620

—


7,620

7,728

1,125

6,603



35 years


Pinewood House

Goose Creek

SC

—

1,170

11,629

—

1,170

11,629

12,799


12,732



35 years


Ashley House

Greenwood

SC

—


1,446

—


1,446

1,986


2,290



35 years


The Inn at Seneca

Seneca

SC

—


2,768

—


2,768

3,133


2,502



35 years


Primrose Aberdeen

Aberdeen

SD

—



—



1,509


4,602



35 years


Primrose Place

Aberdeen

SD

—


3,242

—


3,242

3,552


3,797



35 years


Primrose Rapid City

Rapid City

SD

—


8,722

—


8,722

9,582


9,524



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Primrose Sioux Falls

Sioux Falls

SD

—

2,180

12,936

—

2,180

12,936

15,116


15,034



35 years


Elmcroft of Bartlett

Bartlett

TN

—


25,552

—


25,552

26,122


25,965



35 years


Outlook Pointe of Bristol

Bristol

TN

—


16,006

—


16,006

16,476


16,374



35 years


Elmcroft of Hamilton Place

Chattanooga

TN

—


4,248

—


4,248

4,335


3,708



35 years


Elmcroft of Shallowford

Chattanooga

TN

—


7,568

—


7,568

8,148


8,084



35 years


Regency House

Hixson

TN

—


6,611

—


6,611

6,751


7,329



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Johnson City

Johnson City

TN

—


10,043

—


10,043

10,633


10,567



35 years


Elmcroft of Kingsport

Kingsport

TN

—


7,815

—


7,815

7,837

1,154

6,683



35 years


Elmcroft of West Knoxville

Knoxville

TN

—


10,697

—


10,697

11,136

1,579

9,557



35 years


Elmcroft of Lebanon

Lebanon

TN

—


7,086

—


7,086

7,266

1,046

6,220



35 years


Elmcroft of Twin Hills

Madison

TN

—


8,208

—


8,208

9,068


9,002



35 years


Kennington Place

Memphis

TN

—

1,820

4,748

—

1,820

4,748

6,568


6,497



35 years


Heritage Place

Memphis

TN

—

2,250

3,333

—

2,250

3,333

5,583


5,521



35 years


Franklin Park

Memphis

TN

—

1,240

2,657

—

1,240

2,657

3,897


3,847



35 years


Glenmary Senior Manor

Memphis

TN

—


5,860

—


5,860

6,370


6,295



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Murfreesboro

Murfreesboro

TN

—


8,030

—


8,030

8,970


9,439



35 years


Elmcroft of Brentwood

Nashville

TN

—


22,020

—


22,020

22,980


22,844



35 years


Trenton Health Care Center

Trenton

TN

—


6,058

—


6,058

6,518


6,972



35 years


Elmcroft of Arlington

Arlington

TX

—

2,650

14,060

—

2,650

14,060

16,710


16,629



35 years


Elmcroft of Austin

Austin

TX

—

2,770

25,820

—

2,770

25,820

28,590


28,448



35 years


Elmcroft of Bedford

Bedford

TX

7,728


19,691

—


19,691

20,461


20,335



35 years


Elmcroft of Rivershire

Conroe

TX

—


32,671



32,675

33,535


33,338



35 years


Heritage Oaks Retirement Village

Corsicana

TX

—


30,636

—


30,636

31,426


31,240



35 years


Flower Mound

Flower Mound

TX

—


5,512

—


5,512

6,412


6,380



35 years


Elmcroft of Garland

Garland

TX

—


12,482

—


12,482

13,332


13,244



35 years


Elmcroft of Braeswood

Houston

TX

—

3,970

15,919

—

3,970

15,919

19,889


19,811



35 years


Elmcroft of Cy-Fair

Houston

TX

—

1,580

21,801


1,580

21,810

23,390


23,261



35 years


Elmcroft of Irving

Irving

TX

—

1,620

18,755


1,620

18,757

20,377


20,265



35 years


Whitley Place

Keller

TX

—

—

5,100

—

—

5,100

5,100


4,529



35 years


Elmcroft of Lake Jackson

Lake Jackson

TX

—


14,765

—


14,765

15,475


15,378



35 years


Elmcroft of Vista Ridge

Lewisville

TX

—

6,280

10,548


6,280

10,551

16,831


16,803



35 years


Elmcroft of Windcrest

San Antonio

TX

—


13,011



13,031

13,951


13,863



35 years


Elmcroft of Cottonwood

Temple

TX

—


17,515

—


17,515

18,145


18,033



35 years


Elmcroft of Mainland

Texas City

TX

—


14,849

—


14,849

15,369


15,270



35 years


Elmcroft of Victoria

Victoria

TX

—


13,040

—


13,040

13,480


13,390



35 years


Elmcroft of Wharton

Wharton

TX

—


13,799

—


13,799

14,119


14,025



35 years


Elmcroft of Chesterfield

Richmond

VA

—


6,534

—


6,534

7,363


6,398



35 years


Summerville at Ridgewood

Salem

VA

—

1,900

16,219

—

1,900

16,219

18,119


18,107



35 years


Cooks Hill Manor

Cetralia

WA

—


6,144

—


6,144

6,664


7,858



35 years


The Sequoia

Olympia

WA

—

1,490

13,724

—

1,490

13,724

15,214


17,082



35 years


Birchview

Sedro Wolley

WA

—


14,145

—


14,145

14,355


14,270



35 years


Discovery Memory care

Sequim

WA

—


10,544

—


10,544

10,864


10,794



35 years


The Academy Retirement Comm

Spokane

WA

—


3,741

—


3,741

4,391


5,593



35 years


The Village Retirement & Assisted Living

Tacoma

WA

—

2,200

5,938

—

2,200

5,938

8,138


13,733



35 years


Jansen House

Appleton

WI

—


1,834

—


1,834

1,964


1,960



35 years


Margaret house

Appleton

WI

—


2,016

—


2,016

2,156


2,151



35 years


Hunters Ridge

Beaver Dam

WI

—


2,380

—


2,380

2,640


2,631



35 years


Harbor House Beloit

Beloit

WI

—


4,356

—


4,356

4,506


4,480



35 years


Harbor House Clinton

Clinton

WI

—


4,390

—


4,390

4,680


4,654



35 years


Creekside

Cudahy

WI

—


1,693

—


1,693

2,453


2,519



35 years


Harmony of Denmark

Denmark

WI

1,182


2,228

—


2,228

2,448


2,537



35 years


Harbor House Eau Claire

Eau Claire

WI

—


6,259

—


6,259

6,469


6,434



35 years


Chapel Valley

Fitchburg

WI

—


2,372

—


2,372

2,822


2,925



35 years


Harmony of Brenwood Park

Franklin

WI

6,174

1,870

13,804

—

1,870

13,804

15,674


15,607



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Windsor House of Glendale East

Glendale

WI

—

1,810


—

1,810


2,753


2,772



35 years


Windsor House of Glendale West

Glendale

WI

—

1,800


—

1,800


2,735


2,754



35 years


Laurel Oaks

Glendale

WI

—

2,390

43,587

—

2,390

43,587

45,977


45,728



35 years


Harmony of Green Bay

Green Bay

WI

3,077


5,008

—


5,008

5,648


6,174



35 years


Layton Terrace

Greenfield

WI

8,160

3,490

39,201

—

3,490

39,201

42,691


42,467



35 years


Cambridge House

Hartland

WI

—


1,663

—


1,663

2,303


3,309



35 years


Winchester Place

Horicon

WI

—


3,327

—


3,327

3,667


3,659



35 years


Jefferson

Jefferson

WI

—


2,384

—


2,384

2,714


2,706



35 years


Harmony of Kenosha

Kenosha

WI

4,005

1,180

8,717

—

1,180

8,717

9,897


9,852



35 years


Harbor House Kenosha

Kenosha

WI

—


3,254

—


3,254

3,964


4,593



35 years


Harmony Commons of Stevens Point

Madison

WI

—


2,242

—


2,242

3,002


4,582



35 years


Harmony of Madison

Madison

WI

4,146


4,279

—


4,279

4,929


6,272



35 years


Harmony of Manitowoc

Manitowoc

WI

4,866


10,101

—


10,101

10,551


10,491



35 years


Harbor House Manitowoc

Manitowoc

WI

—


1,520

—


1,520

1,660


1,651



35 years


Harmony of McFarland

McFarland

WI

3,717


4,647

—


4,647

5,287


6,193



35 years


Acorn Ridge

Menasha

WI

—



—








35 years


Emeral Ridge

Menasha

WI

—



—








35 years


Silver Ridge

Menasha

WI

—



—








35 years


West Ridge

Menasha

WI

—



—








35 years


Riverview Village

Menomonee Falls

WI

5,892

2,170

11,758

—

2,170

11,758

13,928


13,875



35 years


The Arboretum

Menomonee Falls

WI

8,545

5,640

49,083

—

5,640

49,083

54,723


54,434



35 years


Harbor House Monroe

Monroe

WI

—


4,964

—


4,964

5,454


5,426



35 years


Phyllis Elaine

Neenah

WI

—


1,157

—


1,157

1,867


1,955



35 years


Judy Harris

Neenah

WI

—


2,339

—


2,339

3,059


3,061



35 years


Irish Road

Neenah

WI

—


1,036

—


1,036

1,356


2,127



35 years


Windsor House Oak Creek

Oak Creek

WI

—


2,167

—


2,167

2,967


2,972



35 years


Wilkinson Woods of Oconomowoc

Oconomowoc

WI

—

1,100

12,436

—

1,100

12,436

13,536


13,466



35 years


Harbor House Oshkosh

Oshkosh

WI

—



—



1,139


1,688



35 years


Wyndham House

Pewaukee

WI

—

1,180

4,124

—

1,180

4,124

5,304


5,561



35 years


Harmony of Racine

Racine

WI

9,747


11,726

—


11,726

12,316


12,249



35 years


Harmony of Commons of Racine

Racine

WI

—


11,245

—


11,245

11,875


11,810



35 years


Harbor House Rib Mountain

Rib Mountain

WI

—


3,413

—


3,413

3,763


3,742



35 years


Harmony of Sheboygan

Sheboygan

WI

9,019


17,908

—


17,908

18,718


18,614



35 years


Harbor House Sheboygan

Sheboygan

WI

—

1,060

6,208

—

1,060

6,208

7,268


7,239



35 years


Windsor House of St. Francis I

St. Francis

WI

—

1,370

1,428

—

1,370

1,428

2,798


2,897



35 years


Windsor House of St. Francis II

St. Francis

WI

—

1,370

1,666

—

1,370

1,666

3,036


3,049



35 years


Howard Village of St. Francis

St. Francis

WI

5,760

2,320

17,232

—

2,320

17,232

19,552


19,453



35 years


Harmony of Stevens Point

Stevens Point

WI

8,231


10,081

—


10,081

10,871


11,578



35 years


Harmony of Stoughton

Stoughton

WI

1,635


9,298

—


9,298

9,788


9,733



35 years


Harbor House Stoughton

Stoughton

WI

—


3,191

—


3,191

3,641


3,889



35 years


Harmony of Two Rivers

Two Rivers

WI

2,626


3,538

—


3,538

3,868


4,444



35 years


Oak Hill Terrace

Waukesha

WI

5,350

2,040

40,298

—

2,040

40,298

42,338


42,091



35 years


Harmony of Terrace Court

Wausau

WI

7,325


5,037

—


5,037

5,467


5,815



35 years


Harmony of Terrace Commons

Wausau

WI

—


6,556

—


6,556

7,296


8,022



35 years


Hart Park Square

Wauwatosa

WI

6,600

1,900

21,628

—

1,900

21,628

23,528


23,402



35 years


Library Square

West Allis

WI

5,150

1,160

23,714

—

1,160

23,714

24,874


24,728



35 years


Harmony of Wisconsin Rapids

Wisconsin Rapids

WI

1,095


4,349

—


4,349

4,869


4,838



35 years


Wrightstown

Wrightstown

WI

—



—





1,158



35 years


Outlook Pointe at Teays Valley

Hurricane

WV

—

1,950

14,489

—

1,950

14,489

16,439


16,362



35 years


Elmcroft of Martinsburg

Martinsburg

WV

—


8,320

—


8,320

8,568

1,228

7,340



35 years


Garden Square Assisted Living of Casper

Casper

WY

—


3,197

—


3,197

3,552

—

3,600



35 years

TOTAL FOR OTHER SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES

249,542

371,851

3,105,390

14,498

371,851

3,119,888

3,491,739

182,115

3,405,608

TOTAL FOR SENIORS HOUSING COMMUNITIES

2,374,138

1,144,232

10,390,029

80,091

1,144,399

10,469,953

11,614,352

939,516

10,883,717



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired

PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES


ResCare Tangram—Ranch

Kingsbury

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Mesquite

Kingsbury

TX

—


1,078

—


1,078

1,093



N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Hacienda

Kingsbury

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Loma Linda

Kingsbury

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Texas Hill Country School

Maxwell

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Chaparral

Maxwell

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—Sierra Verde & Roca Vista

Maxwell

TX

—



—






N/A


20 years


ResCare Tangram—618 W. Hutchinson

San Marcos

TX

—


1,175

—


1,175

1,401



N/A


20 years

TOTAL FOR PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES

—


6,516

—


6,516

7,131

4,318

2,813

MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDINGS


St. Vincent's Medical Center East #46

Birmingham

AL

—

—

25,298


—

26,250

26,250

1,552

29,066



35 years


St. Vincent's Medical Center East #48

Birmingham

AL

—

—

12,698


—

12,719

12,719


12,872



35 years


St. Vincent's Medical Center East #52

Birmingham

AL

—

—

7,608


—

8,091

8,091


8,283



35 years


Crestwood Medical Pavilion

Huntsville

AL

5,684


16,178

—


16,178

16,803


18,145



35 years


Mercy Gilbert Medical Plaza

Gilbert

AZ

—


11,277



11,291

12,011


17,518



35 years


Arrowhead Orchards MOB-A

Glendale

AZ

—


6,624

—


6,624

7,449


8,574



35 years


Arrowhead Orchards MOB-B

Glendale

AZ

—


6,045

—


6,045

6,789


7,356



35 years


Thunderbird Paseo Medical Plaza

Glendale

AZ

10,268

—

12,904

—

—

12,904

12,904

—

15,175



35 years


Thunderbird Paseo Medical Plaza II

Glendale

AZ

6,732

—

8,100

—

—

8,100

8,100

—

9,504



35 years


Cobre Valley Medical Plaza

Globe

AZ

2,480

—

3,785

—

—

3,785

3,785

—

4,026



35 years


Desert Samaritan Medical Building I

Mesa

AZ

8,011

—

11,923

—

—

11,923

11,923

—

12,837



35 years


Desert Samaritan Medical Building II

Mesa

AZ

5,965

—

7,395

—

—

7,395

7,395

—

8,662



35 years


Desert Samaritan Medical Building III

Mesa

AZ

10,242

—

13,665

—

—

13,665

13,665

—

15,082



35 years


Deer Valley Medical Office Building II

Phoenix

AZ

14,177

—

22,663

—

—

22,663

22,663


24,820



35 years


Deer Valley Medical Office Building III

Phoenix

AZ

11,687

—

19,521

—

—

19,521

19,521


21,153



35 years


Edwards Medical Plaza

Phoenix

AZ

12,702

—

18,999

—

—

18,999

18,999


20,912



35 years


Papago Medical Park

Phoenix

AZ

7,616

—

12,172

—

—

12,172

12,172

—

13,613



35 years


Burbank Medical Plaza

Burbank

CA

13,521

1,241

23,322

—

1,241

23,322

24,563


33,803



35 years


Burbank Medical Plaza II

Burbank

CA

30,346


45,641



46,273

46,764


51,201



35 years


Eden Medical Plaza

Castro Valley

CA

—


2,455



2,526

2,784


6,361



25 years


Sutter Medical Center

Castro Valley

CA

4,208

—

—

10,656

—

10,656

10,656

—

10,656

CIP


CIP


PMB Chula Vista

Chula Vista

CA

15,985

2,964

19,393


2,964

19,406

22,370


24,396



35 years


St. Francis Lynwood Medical

Lynwood

CA

9,264


8,385



8,497

9,185


16,336



32 years


PMB Mission Hills

Mission Hills

CA

15,299

15,468

—

16,514

15,468

16,514

31,982

—

31,982

CIP


CIP


PDP Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo

CA

46,731

1,916

77,022


1,916

77,041

78,957

1,302

93,611



35 years


PDP Orange

Orange

CA

49,051

1,752

61,647

—

1,752

61,647

63,399

1,085

75,140



35 years


NHP/PMB Pasadena

Pasadena

CA

—

3,138

83,412


3,138

84,344

87,482

1,473

105,125



35 years


Western University of Health Sciences Medical Pavilion

Pomona

CA

—


31,523

—


31,523

31,614


36,076



35 years


Pomerado Outpatient Pavilion

Poway

CA

—

3,233

71,435

—

3,233

71,435

74,668

1,299

86,865



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


NHP SB 399-401 East Highland

San Bernardino

CA

—


11,133



11,228

12,017


17,166



27 years


NHP SB 399-401 East Highland

San Bernardino

CA

—


5,625



5,729

6,145


9,096



26 years


San Gabriel Valley Medical

San Gabriel

CA

9,475


5,510



5,581

6,495


16,761



35 years


Santa Clarita Valley Medical

Santa Clarita

CA

23,022

9,708

20,020


9,708

20,026

29,734


33,126



35 years


Kenneth E Watts Medical Plaza

Torrance

CA

—


6,945



7,023

7,285


11,715



23 years


Potomac Medical Plaza

Aurora

CO

—

2,401

9,118

1,417

2,442

10,494

12,936

2,901

10,092



35 years


Briargate Medical Campus

Colorado Springs

CO

—

1,238

12,301


1,244

12,533

13,777

2,177

11,828



35 years


Printers Park Medical Plaza

Colorado Springs

CO

—

2,641

47,507


2,641

48,185

50,826

8,147

44,367



35 years


Community Physicians Pavilion

Lafayette

CO

—

—

10,436


—

11,233

11,233


11,032



35 years


Avista Two Medical Plaza

Louisville

CO

—

—

17,330

1,312

—

18,642

18,642

1,696

18,873



35 years


The Sierra Medical Building

Parker

CO

11,734

1,444

14,059

2,362

1,444

16,421

17,865

1,631

16,234



35 years


Lutheran Medical Office Building II

Wheat Ridge

CO

—

—

2,655


—

3,274

3,274


3,512



35 years


Lutheran Medical Office Building IV

Wheat Ridge

CO

—

—

7,266


—

7,628

7,628


8,250



35 years


Lutheran Medical Office Building III

Wheat Ridge

CO

—

—

11,947

—

—

11,947

11,947


12,536



35 years


DePaul Professional Office Building

Washington

DC

—

—

6,424


—

6,877

6,877


7,168



35 years


Providence Medical Office Building

Washington

DC

—

—

2,473


—

2,596

2,596


2,661



35 years


RTS Arcadia

Arcadia

FL

—


2,884

—


2,884

3,229


3,471



30 years


Aventura Heart & Health

Aventura

FL

16,764

—

25,361

2,763

—

28,124

28,124

4,968

24,068



35 years


RTS Cape Coral

Cape Coral

FL

—


5,448

—


5,448

5,816


6,217



34 years


RTS Englewood

Englewood

FL

—

1,071

3,516

—

1,071

3,516

4,587


4,911



35 years


RTS Ft. Myers

Ft. Myers

FL

—

1,153

4,127

—

1,153

4,127

5,280


5,635



31 years


RTS Key West

Key West

FL

—


4,380

—


4,380

4,866


5,174



35 years


JFK Medical Plaza

Lake Worth

FL

—


1,711



1,850

2,303


1,882



35 years


Palms West Building 6

Loxahatchee

FL

—


2,678



2,716

3,681


3,102



35 years


Regency Medical Office Park Phase II

Melbourne

FL

—


3,809



3,986

4,767


3,962



35 years


Regency Medical Office Park Phase I

Melbourne

FL

—


3,156



3,240

3,843


3,177



35 years


RTS Naples

Naples

FL

—

1,152

3,726

—

1,152

3,726

4,878


5,204



35 years


RTS Pt. Charlotte

Pt. Charlotte

FL

—


4,581

—


4,581

5,547


5,942



34 years


RTS Sarasota

Sarasota

FL

—

1,914

3,889

—

1,914

3,889

5,803


6,821



35 years


University Medical Office Building

Tamarac

FL

—

—

6,690

—

—

6,690

6,690

1,136

5,876



35 years


UMC Tamarac

Tamarac

FL

—

2,039

2,936

—

2,039

2,936

4,975


5,109



22 years


RTS Venice

Venice

FL

—

1,536

4,104

—

1,536

4,104

5,640


6,050



35 years


Augusta Medical Plaza

Augusta

GA

—


4,847

—


4,847

5,441


5,923



25 years


Augusta Professional Building

Augusta

GA

—


6,057



6,073

6,760


7,802



27 years


Cobb Physicians Center

Austell

GA

9,030

1,145

16,805

—

1,145

16,805

17,950


21,407



35 years


Columbia Medical Plaza

Evans

GA

—


1,497

—


1,497

1,765


1,981



23 years


Parkway Physicians Center

Ringgold

GA

6,333


10,017

—


10,017

10,493


13,333



35 years


Eastside Physicians Center

Snellville

GA

—

1,289

25,019


1,289

25,653

26,942

3,350

23,795



35 years


Eastside Physicians Plaza

Snellville

GA

6,997


12,948



12,983

13,277

1,587

11,988



35 years


Buffalo Grove Acute Care

Buffalor Grove

IL

—

1,826



1,826


2,760


3,383



26 years


Physicians Plaza East

Decatur

IL

1,016

—



—

1,391

1,391


1,619



35 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Physicians Plaza West

Decatur

IL

1,684

—

1,943


—

1,964

1,964


2,061



35 years


Physicians and Dental Building

Decatur

IL


—



—







35 years


Monroe Medical Center

Decatur

IL


—



—







35 years


Kenwood Medical Center

Decatur

IL

2,555

—

3,900


—

3,930

3,930


3,997



35 years


304 W Hay Building

Decatur

IL

5,458

—

8,702


—

8,703

8,703


9,134



35 years


302 W Hay Building

Decatur

IL

2,351

—

3,467


—

3,481

3,481


3,593



35 years


ENTA

Decatur

IL


—

1,150

—

—

1,150

1,150


1,180



35 years


301 W Hay Building

Decatur

IL


—


—

—







35 years


South Shore Medical Building

Decatur

IL




—



1,031


1,171



35 years


SIU Family Practice

Decatur

IL


—

1,689

—

—

1,689

1,689


1,380



35 years


Corporate Health Services

Decatur

IL

1,335


1,386

—


1,386

2,320


2,597



35 years


Rock Springs Medical

Decatur

IL




—








35 years


575 W Hay Building

Decatur

IL

—



—








35 years


Eberle Medical Office Building ("Eberle MOB")

Elk Grove Village

IL

—

—

16,315


—

16,365

16,365

2,130

15,122



35 years


Grayslake MOB

Grayslake

IL

—

2,740

2,002


2,740

2,005

4,745


5,531



25 years


1425 Hunt Club Road MOB

Gurnee

IL

—


1,452



1,453

1,702


2,487



34 years


1445 Hunt Club Drive

Gurnee

IL

—


1,405



1,406

1,622


2,353



31 years


Gurnee Imaging Center

Gurnee

IL

—


2,731

—


2,731

2,813


3,289



35 years


Gurnee Center Club

Gurnee

IL

—


17,851

—


17,851

18,478


21,810



35 years


Gurnee Acute Care

Gurnee

IL

—


1,115



1,116

1,282


2,397



30 years


Doctors Office Building III ("DOB III")

Hoffman Estates

IL

—

—

24,550


—

24,603

24,603

3,107

22,810



35 years


755 Milwaukee MOB

Libertyville

IL

—


3,716



3,983

4,404


8,063



18 years


890 Professional MOB

Libertyville

IL

—


2,630



2,637

2,851


4,181



26 years


Libertyville Center Club

Libertyville

IL

—

1,020

17,176

—

1,020

17,176

18,196


23,534



35 years


Round Lake ACC

Round Lake

IL

—






1,129


1,775



13 years


Vernon Hills Acute Care Center

Vernon Hills

IL

—

3,376



3,376


4,119


4,797



15 years


Wilbur S. Roby Building

Anderson

IN

—

—

2,653


—

2,750

2,750


2,480



35 years


Ambulatory Services Building

Anderson

IN

—

—

4,266


—

4,486

4,486


4,358



35 years


St. John's Medical Arts Building

Anderson

IN

—

—

2,281


—

2,421

2,421


2,082



35 years


Elkhart

Elkhart

IN

1,282

1,256

1,973

—

1,256

1,973

3,229


3,542



32 years


LaPorte

LaPorte

IN



1,309

—


1,309

1,862


2,078



34 years


Mishawaka

Mishawaka

IN

3,672

3,787

5,543

—

3,787

5,543

9,330


10,140



35 years


South Bend

South Bend

IN

1,511


2,530

—


2,530

3,322


3,668



34 years


Lakeview MOB

Covington

LA

—

1,838

5,508


1,838

5,609

7,447


8,488



28 years


Medical Arts Courtyard

Lafayette

LA

—


1,893



1,977

2,365


2,422



18 years


SW Louisiana POB

Lafayette

LA

—


5,010



5,524

6,391


6,691



18 years


Lakeview Surgery Center

Mandeville

LA

—






1,712


1,696



16 years


Lakeside POB I

Metairie

LA

—

3,334

4,974


3,334

5,073

8,407


9,297



22 years


Lakeside POB II

Metairie

LA

—

1,046



1,046


1,862


2,161



7 years


Northshore I

Slidell

LA

—


1,054



1,450

2,427


2,807



14 years


Northshore II

Slidell

LA

—


1,965



1,982

2,954


2,975



19 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


RTS Berlin

Berlin

MD

—

—

2,216

—

—

2,216

2,216


2,383



29 years


Charles O. Fisher Medical Building

Westminster

MD

11,857

—

13,795


—

14,280

14,280

1,503

14,679



35 years


Medical Specialties Building

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—

19,242


—

19,348

19,348

1,255

18,004



35 years


North Professional Building

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—

7,228


—

7,268

7,268


6,814



35 years


Medical Commons Building

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—



—







35 years


Borgess Navigation Center

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—

2,391

—

—

2,391

2,391


2,536



35 years


Borgess Visiting Nurses

Kalamazoo

MI

—


2,328

—


2,328

2,418


2,209



35 years


Borgess Health & Fitness Center

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—

11,959

—

—

11,959

11,959


12,733



35 years


Heart Center Building

Kalamazoo

MI

—

—

8,420


—

8,433

8,433


8,840



35 years


RTS Madison Heights

Madison Heights

MI

—


2,946

—


2,946

3,347


3,752



35 years


RTS Monroe

Monroe

MI

—


3,450

—


3,450

3,731


4,019



31 years


Pro Med Center Plainwell

Plainwell

MI

—

—


—

—







35 years


Pro Med Center Richland

Richland

MI

—


2,267



2,297

2,530


2,379



35 years


Arnold Urgent Care

Armold

MO

—

1,058



1,058


1,632


2,108



35 years


Fenton Urgent Care Center

Fenton

MO

—


2,714



2,715

2,898


3,715



35 years


Broadway Medical Office Building

Kansas City

MO

6,350

1,300

12,602

1,638

1,335

14,205

15,540

3,901

11,639



35 years


Physicians Office Center

St Louis

MO

—

1,445

13,825


1,445

13,857

15,302


21,120



35 years


12700 Southford Road Medical Plaza

St. Louis

MO

—


12,584



12,591

13,186


17,606



32 years


St Anthony's MOB A

St. Louis

MO

—


4,687



4,696

5,105


7,266



20 years


St Anthony's MOB B

St. Louis

MO

—


3,942

—


3,942

4,292


6,390



21 years


Lemay Urgent Care Center

St. Louis

MO

—

2,317

3,120

—

2,317

3,120

5,437


5,929



22 years


Del E Webb Medical Plaza

Henderson

NV

—

1,028

16,993


1,028

17,049

18,077


23,797



35 years


The Terrace at South Meadows

Reno

NV

7,590


9,966



10,347

10,851


16,621



35 years


Anderson Medical Arts Building I

Cincinnati

OH

—

—

9,632

1,108

—

10,740

10,740

1,813

8,927



35 years


Anderson Medical Arts Building II

Cincinnati

OH

—

—

15,123

2,118

—

17,241

17,241

2,549

14,692



35 years


745 W State Street

Columbus

OH

7,800


10,686



10,703

11,248


13,655



35 years


Zanesville Surgery Center

Zanesville

OH

—


9,403

—


9,403

9,575


10,455



35 years


Dialysis Center

Zanesville

OH

—



—



1,389


1,487



21 years


Genesis Children's Center

Zanesville

OH

—


3,781

—


3,781

4,319


4,745



30 years


Medical Arts Building I

Zanesville

OH

—


2,405

—


2,405

2,834


3,114



20 years


Medical Arts Building II

Zanesville

OH

—


6,013



6,160

6,645


7,798



25 years


Medical Arts Building III

Zanesville

OH

—


1,248

—


1,248

1,342


1,700



25 years


Primecare Building

Zanesville

OH

—


1,344

—


1,344

1,474


1,753



20 years


Outpatient Rehabilitation Building

Zanesville

OH

—


1,541

—


1,541

1,623


1,910



28 years


Radiation Oncology Building

Zanesville

OH

—


1,201

—


1,201

1,306


1,604



25 years


Healthplex

Zanesville

OH

—

2,488

15,849


2,488

15,860

18,348


19,431



32 years


Physicians Pavilion

Zanesville

OH

—


6,297



6,366

6,788


7,895



25 years


Zanesville Northside Pharmacy

Zanesville

OH

—



—








28 years


Bethesda Campus MOB III

Zanesville

OH

—


1,137

—


1,137

1,325


1,446



25 years


Tuality 7th Avenue Medical Plaza

Hillsboro

OR

20,286

1,516

24,638

—

1,516

24,638

26,154


31,851



35 years


DCMH Medical Office Building

Drexel Hill

PA

—

—

10,424

1,083

—

11,507

11,507

3,369

8,138



30 years



Life on

Which

Depreciation

in Income

Statement

is Computed

Location

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount Carried at Close of Period

Costs

Capitalized

Subsequent

to Acquisition

Property #

Property Name

City

State /

Province

Encumbrances

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Land and

Improvements

Buildings and

Improvements

Total

Accumulated

Depreciation

NBV

Year of

Construction

Year

Acquired


Penn State University Outpatient Center

Hershey

PA

57,415

—

55,439

—

—

55,439

55,439

2,923

59,700



35 years


St. Joseph Medical Office Building

Reading

PA

—

—

10,823


—

10,840

10,840


9,867



35 years


Professional Office Building I

Upland

PA

—

—

6,283


—

7,089

7,089

2,049

5,040



30 years


St. Francis Millennium Medical Office Building

Greenville

SC

17,673

—

13,062

10,038

—

23,100

23,100

2,465

20,635



35 years


Irmo Professional MOB

Irmo

SC

7,845

1,726

5,414

—

1,726

5,414

7,140


9,649



35 years


Colleton Medical Arts

Walterboro

SC

—


2,780

—


2,780

3,763


4,109



27 years


Grandview MOB

Jasper

TN

—

1,011

5,322

—

1,011

5,322

6,333


7,590



29.5 years


Abilene Medical Commons I

Abilene

TX

—


1,611

—


1,611

1,790


1,449



35 years


East Houston MOB, LLC

Houston

TX

—


2,877



3,080

3,436


3,837



15 years


East Houston Medical Plaza

Houston

TX

—






1,192


1,376



11 years


Mansfield MOB

Mansfield

TX

—


1,133



1,143

1,554


1,811



27 years


Bayshore Surgery Center MOB

Pasadena

TX

6,650


9,123



9,504

10,269

7,289

2,980



35 years


Bayshore Rehabilitation Center MOB

Pasadena

TX

—


1,128

—


1,128

1,223


1,000



35 years


Seton Williamson Medical Plaza

Round Rock

TX

—

—

15,074


—

15,343

15,343

1,109

14,125



35 years


251 Medical Center

Webster

TX

—

1,158

12,078

—

1,158

12,078

13,236


14,016



35 years


253 Medical Center

Webster

TX

—

1,181

11,862

—

1,181

11,862

13,043


14,154



35 years


J. Hal Smith Building POB

Christianburg

VA

—



—








26 years


Brandersmill MOB

Midlothian

VA

—



—








12.5 years


Henrico MOB

Richmond

VA

—


6,189

—


6,189

7,157


7,988



25 years


Physician's Pavilion

Vancouver

WA

—

1,411

32,939

—

1,411

32,939

34,350


41,206



35 years


Administration Building

Vancouver

WA

—


7,856

—


7,856

8,152


9,629



35 years


Medical Center Physician's Building

Vancouver

WA

—

1,225

31,246


1,225

31,281

32,506


36,907



35 years


Memorial MOB

Vancouver

WA

—


12,626



12,643

13,306


15,404



35 years


Salmon Creek MOB

Vancouver

WA

—

1,325

9,238

—

1,325

9,238

10,563


11,484



35 years


Fisher's Landing MOB

Vancouver

WA

—

1,590

5,420

—

1,590

5,420

7,010


7,841



34 years


Healthy Steps Clinic

Vancouver

WA

—


1,505

—


1,505

2,131


2,227



35 years


Columbia Medical Plaza

Vancouver

WA

—


5,266



5,309

5,590


7,033



35 years


Appleton Heart Institute

Appleton

WI

—

—

7,775

—

—

7,775

7,775


7,778



39 years


Appleton Medical Offices West

Appleton

WI

—

—

5,756

—

—

5,756

5,756


5,712



39 years


Appleton Medical Offices South

Appleton

WI

—

—

9,058


—

9,093

9,093


9,089



39 years


Brookfield Clinic

Brookfield

WI

—

2,638

4,093

—

2,638

4,093

6,731


7,365



35 years


Hartland Clinic

Hartland

WI

—


5,050

—


5,050

5,371


6,497



35 years


Theda Clark Medical Center Office Pavilion

Neenah

WI

—

—

7,080


—

7,126

7,126


7,020



39 years


Aylward Medical Building Condo Floors 3 & 4

Neenah

WI

—

—

4,462

—

—

4,462

4,462


4,664



39 years


New Berlin Clinic

New Berlin

WI

—


7,121

—


7,121

7,799


10,175



35 years


WestWood Health & Fitness

Pewaukee

WI

—


11,649

—


11,649

12,472


16,495



35 years


Watertown Clinic

Watertown

WI

—


3,234

—


3,234

3,400


4,023



35 years


Southside Clinic

Waukesha

WI

—


5,273

—


5,273

5,491


7,196



35 years


Rehabilitation Hospital

Waukesha

WI

—


15,636

—


15,636

16,008


19,743



35 years


Casper WY MOB

Casper

WY

—

3,015

26,513


3,017

26,610

29,627

3,165

26,462



35 years

TOTAL FOR MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDINGS

531,702

146,775

1,814,291

65,336

146,883

1,879,519

2,026,402

108,138

2,234,767

TOTAL FOR ALL PROPERTIES

$

2,905,840

$

1,614,952

$

15,267,106

$

147,346

$

1,614,847

$

15,414,557

$

17,029,404

$

1,729,976

$

15,913,732



ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As required by Rules 13a-15(b) and 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, our management, with the participation
of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. Based on that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange
Act) were effective as of December 31, 2011, at the reasonable assurance level.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The information set forth under "Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting" and "Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting" included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated by reference into
this Item 9A.

Internal Control Changes

During the fourth quarter of 2011, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this Item 10 is incorporated by reference to the material under the headings "Proposals Requiring
Your Vote—Proposal 1: Election of Directors," "Executive Officers," "Corporate Governance" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we will file with the SEC not later than April 29, 2012.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the material under the headings "Corporate
Governance—Non-Employee Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and "Corporate Governance—Board and Committee Membership—Executive Compensation
Committee" in our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we will file with the SEC not later than April 29, 2012.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item 12 is incorporated by reference to the material under the headings "Equity Compensation
Plan Information" and "Securities Ownership" in our definitive Proxy



Statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we will file with the SEC not later than April 29, 2012.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the material under the headings "Transactions with
Related Persons" and "Corporate Governance" in our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we will file with the SEC not later than April 29, 2012.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the material under the headings "Proposals Requiring
Your Vote—Proposal 2: Ratification of the Selection of Ernst & Young as Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal Year 2012—Audit and
Non-Audit Fees" and "—Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services" in our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which we will file with the SEC not later than April 29, 2012.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

The following documents have been included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009


Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011,
 2010 and 2009


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule III—Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation


All
other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable, not required or the information is included elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.



Exhibits

Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

2.1

Merger Agreement dated as of December 24, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., TH Merger Corp, Inc., TH Merger Sub, LLC, Cogdell Spencer Inc. and Cogdell Spencer LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 27, 2011.

2.2

Merger Agreement dated as of February 27, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Needles Acquisition LLC and Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 28, 2011.

2.3.1

Merger Agreement dated as of October 21, 2010 by and among Ventas, Inc., Ventas SL I, LLC, Ventas SL II, LLC, Ventas SL III, LLC, Atria Holdings LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP, LSHP
Coinvestment Partnership I LP, Atria Senior Living Group, Inc., One Lantern Senior Living Inc and LSHP Coinvestment I Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 27, 2010.

2.3.2

Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2011, by and among Ventas, Inc., Ventas SL I, LLC, Ventas SL II, LLC, Ventas SL III, LLC, Atria Holdings LLC, Lazard Senior
Housing Partners LP, LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP, Atria Senior Living Group, Inc., One Lantern Senior Living Inc and LSHP Coinvestment I Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.

3.2

Fourth Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, of Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.

4.1

Specimen common stock certificate.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

4.2

Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.

Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus included in our Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on November 25, 2011, File No. 333-178185.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

4.3

Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of Ventas, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, since the total amount of
securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ventas, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Ventas, Inc. agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
request.

10.1.1

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.2

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 2 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.3

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 3 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.4

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 4 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.2.1

Form of Property Lease Agreement with respect to the Brookdale properties.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.2

Form of Lease Guaranty with respect to the Brookdale properties.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.2.3

Schedule of Agreements Substantially Identical in All Material Respects to the agreements incorporated by reference as Exhibits 10.2.1 and 10.2.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, pursuant to
Instruction 2 to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

10.2.4.1

Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of October 19, 2004 by and between Brookdale Provident Properties LLC and PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.4.2

Letter Agreement dated March 28, 2005 by and among Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Ventas Provident, LLC (successor to Provident Senior Living Trust).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to Amendment No. 4 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on April 11, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.4.3

Letter Agreement dated April 4, 2008 by and between Brookdale Provident Properties LLC and PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.4

First Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of February 11, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC, Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, Brookdale Provident Management LLC and Ventas
Provident, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.2.4.5

Second Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of March 2, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, et al.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.5 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.6

Third Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of November 6, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, et al.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.6 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.7

Guaranty of Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of October 19, 2004 by Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. in favor of PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.2.5

Guaranty dated as of February 11, 2009 by Brookdale Senior Living Inc., for the benefit of the landlords with respect to the Brookdale and Alterra properties, PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and PSLT-ALS
Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.9 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.3

Letter Agreement dated as of January 14, 2007 between Ventas, Inc. and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.4

Loan Agreement dated May 17, 2011 by and between Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Nationwide Health Properties, LLC (as successor to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 20, 2011.

10.5.1

Term Loan Agreement dated as of June 3, 2011 among Nationwide Health Properties, LLC (as successor to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 6, 2011.

10.5.2

Guaranty Agreement dated as of July 1, 2011 among Ventas, Inc., as Guarantor, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 11, 2011.

10.6

Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of October 18, 2011 among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, Ventas SSL Ontario II, Inc. and Ventas SSL Ontario III, Inc., as Borrowers, Ventas, Inc.,
as Guarantor, the Lenders identified therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer and Alternative Currency Fronting Lender.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 24, 2011.

10.7

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 1, 2006 by and among Ventas, Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, as Initial Purchasers.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 6, 2006.

10.8

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.9

Lockup Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.10

Ownership Limit Waiver Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership
I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.11

Director Appointment Letter dated as of May 12, 2011 by Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.12

*

Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

10.13

*

Ventas, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan for Directors, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

10.14.1

*

Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.14.2

*

Form of Stock Option Agreement—2006 Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.14.3

*

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement—2006 Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.15.1

*

Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.2

*

Form of Stock Option Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.3

*

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.4

*

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.16.1

*

Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.16.2

*

Deferral Election Form under the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.17.1

*

Ventas Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.17.2

*

Deferral Election Form under the Ventas Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.18.1

*

Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting, filed on March 24, 2005.

10.18.2

*

First Amendment to the Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, dated October 28, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.19.1

*

Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended and restated on April 20, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.

10.19.2

*

Amendment to the Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended and restated on April 20, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.20

*

Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. dated October 28, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.21

*

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of March 22, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and Debra A. Cafaro.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 24, 2011.

10.22.1

*

Employment Agreement dated as of July 31, 1998 between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.

10.22.2

*

Amendment dated as of September 30, 1999 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.

10.22.3

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.22.4

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.22.5

*

Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement dated as of March 22, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 24, 2011.

10.23.1

*

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 31, 2004 between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 6, 2005.

10.23.2

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.

10.23.3

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.24.1

*

Employment Agreement dated as of September 18, 2002 between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002.

10.24.2

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.

10.24.3

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.25

*

Employment Agreement dated as of June 22, 2010 between Ventas, Inc. and Todd W. Lillibridge.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.

10.26

*

Letter Agreement dated as of June 30, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and Douglas M. Pasquale.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 11, 2011.

10.27

*

Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.28

First Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to our Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended, File No. 333-89312.


Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

Filed herewith.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document


Subsidiaries of Ventas, Inc.

Filed herewith.


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

Filed herewith.

31.1

Certification of Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act.

Filed herewith.

31.2

Certification of Richard A. Schweinhart, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act.

Filed herewith.

32.1

Certification of Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. 1350.

Filed herewith.

32.2

Certification of Richard A. Schweinhart, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. 1350.

Filed herewith.


Interactive Data File.

Filed herewith.

*

Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:
February 22, 2012

VENTAS, INC.

By:

/s/ DEBRA A. CAFARO

Debra A. Cafaro

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ DEBRA A. CAFARO

Debra A. Cafaro

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

February 22, 2012

/s/ RICHARD A. SCHWEINHART

Richard A. Schweinhart

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 22, 2012

/s/ ROBERT J. BREHL

Robert J. Brehl

Chief Accounting Officer and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 22, 2012

/s/ DOUGLAS CROCKER II

Douglas Crocker II

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ RONALD G. GEARY

Ronald G. Geary

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ JAY M. GELLERT

Jay M. Gellert

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ RICHARD I. GILCHRIST

Richard I. Gilchrist

Director

February 22, 2012



Signature

Title

Date

/s/ MATTHEW J. LUSTIG

Matthew J. Lustig

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ DOUGLAS M. PASQUALE

Douglas M. Pasquale

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ ROBERT D. PAULSON

Robert D. Paulson

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ ROBERT D. REED

Robert D. Reed

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ SHELI Z. ROSENBERG

Sheli Z. Rosenberg

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ GLENN J. RUFRANO

Glenn J. Rufrano

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ JAMES D. SHELTON

James D. Shelton

Director

February 22, 2012

/s/ THOMAS C. THEOBALD

Thomas C. Theobald

Director

February 22, 2012



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

2.1

Merger Agreement dated as of December 24, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., TH Merger Corp, Inc., TH Merger Sub, LLC, Cogdell Spencer Inc. and Cogdell Spencer LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 27, 2011.

2.2

Merger Agreement dated as of February 27, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Needles Acquisition LLC and Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 28, 2011.

2.3.1

Merger Agreement dated as of October 21, 2010 by and among Ventas, Inc., Ventas SL I, LLC, Ventas SL II, LLC, Ventas SL III, LLC, Atria Holdings LLC, Lazard Senior Housing
Partners LP, LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP, Atria Senior Living Group, Inc., One Lantern Senior Living Inc and LSHP Coinvestment I Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 27, 2010.

2.3.2

Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2011, by and among Ventas, Inc., Ventas SL I, LLC, Ventas SL II, LLC, Ventas SL III, LLC, Atria Holdings LLC, Lazard Senior
Housing Partners LP, LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP, Atria Senior Living Group, Inc., One Lantern Senior Living Inc and LSHP Coinvestment I Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.

3.2

Fourth Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, of Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.

4.1

Specimen common stock certificate.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

4.2

Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.

Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus included in our Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on November 25, 2011, File No. 333-178185.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

4.3

Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of Ventas, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, since the total amount of
securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ventas, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Ventas, Inc. agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
request.

10.1.1

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.2

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 2 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.3

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 3 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.1.4

Second Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 4 dated as of April 27, 2007 for lease executed by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lessor, and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, Inc., as Tenant.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2007.

10.2.1

Form of Property Lease Agreement with respect to the Brookdale properties.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.2

Form of Lease Guaranty with respect to the Brookdale properties.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.2.3

Schedule of Agreements Substantially Identical in All Material Respects to the agreements incorporated by reference as Exhibits 10.2.1 and 10.2.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, pursuant to
Instruction 2 to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

10.2.4.1

Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of October 19, 2004 by and between Brookdale Provident Properties LLC and PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.4.2

Letter Agreement dated March 28, 2005 by and among Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Ventas Provident, LLC (successor to Provident Senior Living
Trust).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to Amendment No. 4 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on April 11, 2005, File No. 333-120206.

10.2.4.3

Letter Agreement dated April 4, 2008 by and between Brookdale Provident Properties LLC and PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.4

First Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of February 11, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC, Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, Brookdale Provident Management LLC and
Ventas Provident, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.2.4.5

Second Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of March 2, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, et al.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.5 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.6

Third Amendment to Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of November 6, 2009 by and between PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and Brookdale Provident Properties LLC, et al.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.4.6 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.2.4.7

Guaranty of Agreement Regarding Leases dated as of October 19, 2004 by Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. in favor of PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment No. 2 to Provident Senior Living Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-11, filed on January 18, 2005, File No. 333-120206.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.2.5

Guaranty dated as of February 11, 2009 by Brookdale Senior Living Inc., for the benefit of the landlords with respect to the Brookdale and Alterra properties, PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC and PSLT-ALS
Properties Holdings, LLC.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2.9 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.

10.3

Letter Agreement dated as of January 14, 2007 between Ventas, Inc. and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.4

Loan Agreement dated May 17, 2011 by and between Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Nationwide Health Properties, LLC (as successor to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 20, 2011.

10.5.1

Term Loan Agreement dated as of June 3, 2011 among Nationwide Health Properties, LLC (as successor to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
Administrative Agent.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 6, 2011.

10.5.2

Guaranty Agreement dated as of July 1, 2011 among Ventas, Inc., as Guarantor, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 11, 2011.

10.6

Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of October 18, 2011 among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, Ventas SSL Ontario II, Inc. and Ventas SSL Ontario III, Inc., as Borrowers, Ventas, Inc.,
as Guarantor, the Lenders identified therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer and Alternative Currency Fronting Lender.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 24, 2011.

10.7

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 1, 2006 by and among Ventas, Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, as Initial Purchasers.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 6, 2006.

10.8

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership
I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.9

Lockup Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.10

Ownership Limit Waiver Agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 by and among Ventas, Inc., Prometheus Senior Quarters LLC, Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership
I LP.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.11

Director Appointment Letter dated as of May 12, 2011 by Ventas, Inc.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2011.

10.12

*

Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

10.13

*

Ventas, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan for Directors, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

10.14.1

*

Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.14.2

*

Form of Stock Option Agreement—2006 Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.14.3

*

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement—2006 Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.

10.15.1

*

Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.2

*

Form of Stock Option Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.3

*

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.15.4

*

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement—2006 Stock Plan for Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.16.1

*

Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.16.2

*

Deferral Election Form under the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.17.1

*

Ventas Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.17.2

*

Deferral Election Form under the Ventas Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.18.1

*

Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting, filed on March 24, 2005.

10.18.2

*

First Amendment to the Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, dated October 28, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.19.1

*

Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended and restated on April 20, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.

10.19.2

*

Amendment to the Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. Retirement Plan for Directors, as amended and restated on April 20, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.20

*

Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. dated October 28, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 3, 2008.

10.21

*

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of March 22, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and Debra A. Cafaro.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 24, 2011.

10.22.1

*

Employment Agreement dated as of July 31, 1998 between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.

10.22.2

*

Amendment dated as of September 30, 1999 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.2.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.

10.22.3

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document

10.22.4

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.22.5

*

Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Severance Agreement dated as of March 22, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and T. Richard Riney.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 24, 2011.

10.23.1

*

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 31, 2004 between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 6, 2005.

10.23.2

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.

10.23.3

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Richard A. Schweinhart.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.24.1

*

Employment Agreement dated as of September 18, 2002 between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002.

10.24.2

*

Amendment dated as of March 19, 2007 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 23, 2007.

10.24.3

*

Amendment dated as of December 31, 2008 to Employment Agreement between Ventas, Inc. and Raymond J. Lewis.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.25

*

Employment Agreement dated as of June 22, 2010 between Ventas, Inc. and Todd W. Lillibridge.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.

10.26

*

Letter Agreement dated as of June 30, 2011 between Ventas, Inc. and Douglas M. Pasquale.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on July 11, 2011.

10.27

*

Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.

10.28

First Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to our Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended, File No. 333-89312.


Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

Filed herewith.



Exhibit

Number

Description of Document

Location of Document


Subsidiaries of Ventas, Inc.

Filed herewith.


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

Filed herewith.

31.1

Certification of Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act.

Filed herewith.

31.2

Certification of Richard A. Schweinhart, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act.

Filed herewith.

32.1

Certification of Debra A. Cafaro, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. 1350.

Filed herewith.

32.2

Certification of Richard A. Schweinhart, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. 1350.

Filed herewith.


Interactive Data File.

Filed herewith.

*

Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.

214