ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form10-Kin
evaluating the Company and its common stock. Any of the following risks, or other risks or uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or
financial condition, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of the Company’s common stock.

The Company’s Businesses
Face Significant Competition from Other Sources of Content, and its Success Depends on its Ability to Compete Effectively.

pay-TV







pay-TV

Some of the Company’s current and potential competitors may have greater resources or better competitive positions in certain
areas than it does, which may allow them to respond more effectively to new technologies and changes in market conditions. If the Company is unable to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, its business, results of operations
and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company Must Respond to New Technologies and Changes in Consumer Behavior and
Continue to Innovate and Provide Useful Products in Order to Remain Competitive.

Technology continues to evolve rapidly, and the
resulting changes in consumer behavior and preferences create constant opportunities for new and existing competitors that can quickly render the Company’s products and services less valuable. For example, alternative methods for the delivery,
storage and consumption of digital content, including the distribution of news and other content through social networking tools and on mobile and other devices, often without charge, Internet and mobile distribution of video content via streaming
and downloading and digital distribution models for books, have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where, how and at what price they consume content. Enhanced Internet capabilities and the development of new media channels may
continue to reduce the demand for the Company’s newspapers, television programs and other products and the price consumers are willing to pay for such products. In addition, other technological developments, such as those allowing consumers to
skip, fast forward through or block advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to advertisers.

Other digital platforms and technologies, such as user-generated sites and self-publishing tools, have also reduced the effort and expense of producing and distributing content on a wide scale, allowing
digital content providers, customers, suppliers and other third parties to compete with the Company, often at a lower cost. This trend may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on the Company’s products disproportionately to the
costs associated with generating content and result in relatively low barriers to entry for competing Internet-based products and services. Additional digital distribution channels, such as the Internet and online retailers, have presented, and may
continue to present, challenges to the Company’s businesses, including its traditional book publishing model, which could adversely affect sales volume and/or pricing.

The Company must continue to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade and exploit new and existing technologies to ensure that its products and services remain relevant and useful for consumers and customers and
are delivered in the manner in which consumers and customers wish to consume them. The Company may be required to incur







significant capital expenditures and other costs in order to respond to new technologies, new and enhanced offerings from its competitors and changes in consumer behavior, and to attract and
retain employees with the skill sets and knowledge base needed to successfully operate its digital and other businesses. For example, the Company expects to make significant investments in itspay-TVbusiness
as it continues to develop and improve the capabilities of its services, including potential new SVOD services. The development of new strategies and technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, and there is a risk that the
Company may not be able to develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner and that its responses and strategies to remain competitive, including new product offerings and the distribution of its content on a
“pay” basis, may not be accepted by consumers. The Company’s failure to respond to and develop new technologies, distribution channels and platforms, products, services and business models to take advantage of advancements in
technology and the latest consumer preferences could cause its customer, audience and/or user base or its advertisers to decline, in some cases precipitously, and could have a significant adverse effect on its businesses, asset values, financial
condition and results of operations.

A Decline in Customer Advertising Expenditures in the Company’s Newspaper and Other Businesses
Could Cause its Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly.

The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of
advertising through its newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties, cable channels and otherpay-TVprogramming and radio stations. The Company’s ability to generate advertising
revenue is dependent on a number of factors, including: (1) demand for the Company’s products and services, (2) audience fragmentation, (3) digital advertising trends, (4) its ability to offer advertising products and
formats sought by advertisers, (5) general economic and business conditions, (6) demographics of the customer base, (7) advertising rates and (8) advertising effectiveness.

Demand for the Company’s products and services depends upon the Company’s ability to differentiate those products and
services and anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer behaviors and is evaluated based on a variety of metrics. For example, circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers, ratings points for its cable channels and number of listeners for
its radio stations are among the factors advertisers consider when determining the amount of advertising to purchase from the Company as well as advertising rates. For the Company’s digital media properties, including its digital real estate
services sites, advertisers evaluate consumer demand using metrics such as the number of visits, number of users and user engagement. Any difficulty or failure in accurately measuring demand, particularly demand generated through new platforms, may
lead to under-measurement and, in turn, lower advertising pricing and spending.

The increasing popularity of digital media among consumers as a source of news and other
content has driven a corresponding shift in advertising from traditional channels to digital platforms. This shift has significantly impacted the Company’s print advertising revenues in particular, which have declined in each of its last three
fiscal years. The development of new devices and technologies, as well as higher consumer engagement with other forms of digital media such as online and mobile social networking, are increasing the number of media choices and formats available to
audiences, resulting in audience fragmentation and increased competition for advertising. The range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically
resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising. In addition, in the past, rates have been generally lower for mobile advertising than for desktop advertising. As a result, increasing consumer reliance on
mobile devices may add additional pricing pressure. Consequently, the Company’s digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption.

The digital advertising market also continues to undergo significant changes that may further impact digital advertising revenues. Digital advertising
networks and exchanges, real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels that allow advertisers to buy audiences at scale are playing a more significant role in the advertising marketplace and may cause further downward pricing pressure. New
delivery platforms may also lead to loss of distribution and pricing control and loss of a direct relationship with consumers. In addition,







evolving standards for the delivery of digital advertising, as well as the development and adoption of technology designed to block, change the location of, or obscure, the display of advertising
on websites and mobile devices and/or block or delete cookies, may also negatively impact digital advertising revenues. As the digital advertising market continues to evolve, the Company’s ability to compete successfully for advertising budgets
will depend on, among other things, its ability to drive scale, engage and grow digital audiences, derive better demographic and other information about its users, develop new digital advertising products and formats such as branded and other custom
content, and video and mobile advertising, and prove the value of its advertising and the effectiveness of the Company’s platforms to its advertising customers, including through more targeted, data-driven offerings. In recent years, large
digital platforms such as Facebook and Google, which have extensive audience reach and targeting capabilities, have commanded an increasing share of the digital advertising market, and the Company expects this trend may continue.

The Company’s print and digital advertising revenue is also affected generally by overall national and local economic and business conditions,
including consumer spending, housing sales, auto sales, unemployment rates and job creation, advertisers’ budgeting and buying patterns, which tend to be cyclical, as well as federal, state and local election cycles. In addition, certain
sectors of the economy account for a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, including retail, technology and finance. Some of these sectors, such as retail, are more susceptible to weakness in economic conditions and have
also been under pressure from increased online competition. A decline in the economic prospects of these and other advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities or result in
consolidation or closures across various industries, which may also reduce the Company’s overall advertising revenue.

While the Company
has adopted a number of strategies and initiatives to address these challenges, there can be no guarantee that its efforts will be successful. If the Company is unable to demonstrate the continuing value of its various platforms and high-quality
content and brands or offer advertisers unique multi-platform advertising programs, its results may suffer. Reduced demand for the Company’s offerings, a decrease in advertising expenditures by the Company’s customers or a surplus of
advertising inventory could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and assets, results of operations and financial condition.

The Inability to Obtain and Retain Sports and Other Programming Rights Could Adversely Affect the Revenue of Certain of the Company’s Operating
Businesses, and Programming Costs Could Also Increase Upon Renewal.

pay-TV

pay-TV

pay-TV

direct-to-consumer







The Company Has Made and May Continue to Make Strategic Acquisitions and Investments That Introduce
Significant Risks and Uncertainties.

In order to position its business to take advantage of growth opportunities, the Company has made
and may continue to make strategic acquisitions and investments that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in
an efficient and effective manner, (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits, (3) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (4) with respect to investments,
risks associated with the inability to control the operations of the business, (5) the risk of diverting the attention of the Company’s senior management from the Company’s operations, (6) the risks associated with integrating
financial reporting and internal control systems, (7) the difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, (8) in the case of foreign acquisitions and
investments, the impact of specific economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with the relevant countries, (9) liabilities, both known and unknown, associated with the acquired businesses or investments and
(10) in some cases, increased regulation.

If any acquired business or investment, including the recent combination of Foxtel and FOX
SPORTS Australia, fails to operate as anticipated or an acquired business cannot be successfully integrated with the Company’s existing businesses, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation could be
adversely affected, and the Company may be required to recordnon-cashimpairment charges for the write-down of certain acquired assets.

Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations.

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its consolidated debt when the debt is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the operations whose
cash flows support the ability to repay or refinance such debt. As of June 30, 2018, the new Foxtel operating subsidiaries, whose functional currency is Australian dollars, had $575 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding
indebtedness denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s policy is to hedge against the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements with respect to this exposure where commercially reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that it will
be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all, or that there will not be a default by any of the counterparties to those arrangements.

In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency translation risk because it has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of its operations are conducted in
currencies other than the Company’s reporting currency, primarily the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. Since the Company’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates
between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, a currency translation impact on the Company’s earnings when the results of those operations that are reported in foreign currencies are translated into U.S.
dollars for inclusion in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on its reported results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. In particular, exchange rates between the
U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling are expected to remain volatile due to continued political uncertainty in the U.K. and the negotiation of its exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit.”

Weak Domestic and Global Economic Conditions and Volatility and Disruption in the Financial and Other Markets May Adversely Affect the Company’s
Business.

The U.S. and global economies have undergone, and continue to experience, periods of economic and market uncertainty, including
as a result of recent trade disputes between a number of countries. These conditions have in the past resulted in, among other things, a general tightening in the credit and capital markets, limited access to







The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology Whose Failure or Misuse Could Cause a Disruption of Services or Loss or Improper Disclosure of Personal Data, Business
Information, Including Intellectual Property, or Other Confidential Information, Resulting in Increased Costs, Loss of Revenue, Reputational Damage or Other Harm to the Company’s Business.







A significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption of the Company’s systems, or
those of third parties upon which its business relies, could result in a disruption of its operations, including degradation or disruption of service, equipment damage, customer, audience or advertiser dissatisfaction, damage to its reputation or
brands, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, lawsuits, remediation costs, a loss of customers, audience, advertisers or revenues and other financial losses. If any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper
disclosure of information maintained in the Company’s information systems and networks or those of its vendors, including financial, personal and credit card data, as well as confidential and proprietary information relating to personnel,
customers, vendors and the Company’s business, including its intellectual property, the Company could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. In
addition, media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the Company’s systems or those of third parties upon which its business relies, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact the
Company’s brand and reputation and materially affect its business.

The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment and
Restructuring Charges.







investments or other long-lived assets could result in additional impairments for whichnon-cashcharges would be required. Any such charge could be
material to the Company’s reported results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2018, the Company recognizednon-cashimpairment charges of $280 million, primarily related to News America Marketing
and FOX SPORTS Australia, and a $957 millionnon-cashwrite-down of its investment in Foxtel. In addition, as of June 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $170 million of goodwill that is at
risk for future impairment because the fair value of the corresponding reporting unit was equal to its carrying value. The Company may also incur additional restructuring charges in the future if it is required to further realign its resources
in response to significant shortfalls in revenue or other adverse trends.

There Can Be No Assurance That the Company Will Have Access to
the Credit and Capital Markets on Terms Acceptable to It, and the Significant Leverage of its new Foxtel Operating Subsidiaries Could Limit the Ability of Those Subsidiaries to Access the Credit and Capital Markets and Have Other Adverse Effects.







The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by Changes in Governmental Policy and
Regulation.

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and the
introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries, could have a negative impact on its
interests. In addition, laws and regulations in some international jurisdictions differ from those in the United States, and the enforcement of those laws and regulations may be inconsistent and unpredictable. The Company may incur substantial costs
or be required to change its business practices in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations and could incur substantial penalties or other liabilities in the event of any failure to comply.

The Company’s Australian operating businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government policy, regulation or legislation, or the
application or enforcement thereof, applying to companies in the Australian media industry or to Australian companies in general. This includes:



•anti-siphoning legislation which currently preventspay-TVproviders such as new Foxtel from acquiring rights
to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless:



–national and commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 26 weeks before the start of the event;



–the rights to televise are also held by commercial television licensees who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the
Australian population; or



–the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters;



•other parts of the Broadcasting Services Act that regulate ownership interests and control of Australian media organizations. Such legislation may have
an impact on the Company’s ownership structure and operations and may restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities; and



•the Telecommunications Act and associated Codes, which apply various consumer protection regimes to new Foxtel as a telecommunications service
provider.

In addition,
the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K. are subject to greater regulation and oversight as a result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press. Following the inquiry, the U.K.
Government established a Press Recognition Panel responsible for approving and monitoring a new press regulatory body. Publishers who are not members of an approved regulator, including the







Company, may be subject to exemplary damages in privacy and libel cases and, if Section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 is enacted, the payment of costs for both parties in libel actions
in certain circumstances. The majority of the U.K. press, including News UK, has established an alternative regulator, the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO. IPSO, which has indicated that it does not intend to seek approval by the
Press Recognition Panel, has powers to impose burdens on its print media members in the U.K. These powers, which include the ability to impose fines of up to £1 million for systemic breaches of IPSO’s Editor’s Code of Practice,
may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance. Depending on the political environment, the second phase of the Leveson inquiry may be commenced, investigating the relationship
between the press and the police.

The Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland are also subject to governmental regulation by
the relevant broadcast authorities as the Company is required to obtain and maintain licenses from such authorities to operate these stations. Although the Company expects its licenses will, where relevant, be renewed in the ordinary course upon
their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case.Non-complianceby the Company with the requirements associated with such licenses or other applicable laws and regulations, including of
the relevant authority, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other adverse regulatory actions.

Adverse Results from Litigation or Other Proceedings Could Impact the Company’s Business Practices and Operating Results.

From time to time, the Company is party to litigation, as well as to regulatory and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative
agencies, including with respect to antitrust, tax, data privacy and security, intellectual property and other matters. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 16 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of certain matters. The
outcome of these matters and other litigation and proceedings is subject to significant uncertainty, and it is possible that an adverse resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm and/or significant monetary damages,
injunctive relief or settlement costs that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition as well as the Company’s ability to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted. In addition,
regardless of merit or outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on the Company as a result of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors.

The Company Could Be Subject to Significant Additional Tax Liabilities, which Could Adversely Affect its Operating Results and Financial Condition.

The Company is subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions and variousnon-U.S.jurisdictions, including Australia and the U.K. The Company’s effective tax rate is impacted by the tax laws, regulations, practices and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and may fluctuate significantly from period to
period depending on, among other things, the geographic mix of the Company’s profits and losses, changes in tax laws and regulations or their application and interpretation, the outcome of tax audits and changes in valuation allowances
associated with the Company’s deferred tax assets. Evaluating and estimating the Company’s tax provision, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax accruals requires significant management judgment, and there are often
transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.

The Company’s tax returns are routinely audited by various tax
authorities. Tax authorities may not agree with the treatment of items reported in the Company’s tax returns or positions taken by the Company, and as a result,tax-relatedsettlements or litigation may
occur, resulting in additional income tax liabilities against the Company. Although the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of tax reviews and examinations and any related litigation, the final outcomes of these
matters could differ materially from the amounts recorded in the Financial Statements. As a result, the Company may be required to recognize additional charges in its Statements of Operations and pay significant additional amounts with respect to
current or prior periods, or its taxes in the future could increase, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial condition.







tax-free

tax-related

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act
instituted significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including, among other things, lowering the corporate tax rate and implementing a partial territorial tax system. The Company recorded provisional charges during fiscal 2018 for
certain transitional impacts associated with these changes. In addition, a number of other provisions in the Tax Act do not take effect until fiscal 2019, including changes to limits on the deductions for executive compensation, a tax on global
intangiblelow-taxedincome, the base erosion anti-abuse tax and a deduction for foreign-derived intangible income. The Company continues to assess the full impact of the Tax Act, including finalizing the
transitional impacts referenced above, and cannot predict the manner in which provisions of the Tax Act or any related regulations, legislation or accounting standards may be interpreted or enforced or whether such interpretation or enforcement may
have a material adverse effect on its income tax expense and/or its business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 19 to the Financial Statements for more information regarding the impact of the Tax Act.

The Company’s International Operations Expose it to Additional Risks that Could Adversely Affect its Business, Operating Results and Financial
Condition.

In its fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, approximately 57% of the Company’s revenues were derived outside the U.S.,
and the Company is focused on expanding the international scope of its operations. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including (1) issues related to managing international operations; (2) economic uncertainties
and volatility in local markets and political or social instability; (3) potentially adverse changes in tax laws and regulations; (4) compliance with international laws and regulations, including foreign ownership restrictions and data
privacy requirements such as the GDPR; (5) compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act; (6) restrictions on repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange; and
(7) compliance with local labor laws and regulations. For example, Brexit may, among other things, adversely affect economic and market conditions in the U.K. and the European Union and create uncertainty around doing business in the U.K.,
including with respect to data protection and transfer, tax rates and the recruitment and retention of employees. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with the Company’s international operations could result in
reputational harm and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Challenges







associated with operating globally may increase as the Company continues to expand into geographic areas that it believes represent the highest growth opportunities.

The Company is Party to Agreements with Third Parties Relating to Certain of its Businesses That Contain Operational and Management Restrictions
and/or Other Rights That, Depending on the Circumstances, May Not be in the Best Interest of the Company.

The Company is party to
agreements with third parties relating to certain of its businesses that restrict the Company’s ability to take specified actions and contain other rights that, depending on the circumstances, may not be in the best interest of the Company.For example, the Company and Telstra are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement with respect to new Foxtel containing certain minority protections for Telstra, including standard governance provisions, as well as transfer and exit rights.
The Shareholders’ Agreement provides Telstra with the right to appoint two directors to the Board of new Foxtel, as well as Board and shareholder-level veto rights over certainnon-ordinarycourse and/or
material corporate actions that may prevent new Foxtel from taking actions that are in the interests of the Company. The Shareholders’ Agreement also provides for (1) certain transfer restrictions, which could adversely affect the
Company’s ability to effect such transfers and/or the prices at which those transfers may occur, and (2) exit arrangements, which could, in certain circumstances, force the Company to sell its interest, subject to rights of first and, in
some cases, last refusals.

In addition, Move, the Company’s digital real estate services business in the U.S.,
operates the realtor.com®website under an agreement with NAR that is perpetual in duration. However, NAR may
terminate the operating agreement for certain contractually-specified reasons upon expiration of applicable cure periods. If the operating agreement with NAR is terminated, the NAR License would also terminate, and Move would be required to transfer
a copy of the software that operates the realtor.com®website to NAR and provide NAR with copies of its
agreements with advertisers and data content providers. NAR would then be able to operate a realtor.com®website, either by itself or with another third party.

Theft of the Company’s Content, including Digital Piracy and Signal Theft, may
Decrease Revenue and Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Profitability.

Failure by the Company to Protect Certain Intellectual Property and Brands Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Results of Operation and Financial Condition.

The Company’s businesses rely on a combination of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, domain names and other proprietary rights, as well
as licenses and other contractual arrangements, including licenses relating to







sports programming rights,set-topbox technology and related systems, the NAR License and the Fox Licenses, to establish, obtain and protect the
intellectual property and brand names used in their businesses. The Company believes its proprietary trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, domain names and other intellectual property rights are important to its continued success and its
competitive position. However, the Company cannot ensure that these intellectual property rights will be upheld if challenged or that these rights will protect the Company against infringement claims by third parties, and effective intellectual
property protection may not be available in every country or region in which the Company operates or where its products are available. Any failure by the Company to effectively protect its intellectual property or brands could adversely impact the
Company’s results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the Company may be contractually required to indemnify other parties against liabilities arising out of any third party infringement claims.

Newsprint Prices May Continue to Be Volatile and Difficult to Predict and Control, and any Increase in Newsprint Costs may Adversely Affect the
Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Newsprint is one of the largest expenses of the Company’s
newspaper publishing units. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company’s average cost per ton of newsprint was approximately 1% lower than its historical average annual cost per ton over the past five fiscal years on a constant
currency basis. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile, and a number of factors may cause prices to increase, including: (1) the closure and consolidation of newsprint mills, which has reduced the number of suppliers over the
years; (2) the imposition of tariffs or other restrictions onnon-U.S.suppliers of paper; (3) an increase in supplier operating expenses due to rising raw material or energy costs or other factors;
(4) failure to maintain the Company’s current consumption levels; and (5) the inability to maintain the Company’s existing relationships with its newsprint suppliers. Any increase in the cost of newsprint could have an adverse
effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

Damage, Failure or Destruction of Satellites and
Transmitter Facilities that the Company’sPay-TVBusiness Depends Upon to Distribute its Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Results of Operations.

pay-TV

on-ground

pay-TV

The Company’sPay-TVBusiness Depends on a Single or Limited Number of
Third Party Service Providers and Suppliers for Certain Key Products or Services,and Any Reduction or Interruption in the Supply of These Products and Services or a Significant Increase in Price Could Have an Adverse Effect on
the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

The Company’spay-TVbusiness depends on a single or limited number of third party service providers and suppliers to supply certain key products and services necessary to provide itspay-TVservices. In particular, the







Company depends on Optus to provide all of its satellite transponder capacity, and ARRIS and Technicolor are the Company’s sole suppliers of satellite and cableset-topboxes and the Foxtel Now box, respectively. If any of these service providers or suppliers breaches or terminates their agreements with the Company or otherwise fails to perform their obligations in a timely
manner, experiences operating or financial difficulties, is unable to meet demand due to component shortages, insufficient capacity or otherwise, significantly increases the amount the Company pays for necessary products or services or ceases
production of any necessary product, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. While the Company will seek alternative sources for these products and services where possible, it may not be
able to develop these alternative sources quickly and cost-effectively, which could impair its ability to timely deliver its products and services to its subscribers or operate its business.

Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business.

In a variety of
the Company’s businesses, it engages the services of employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take
action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing
delays in production or by reducing profit margins.

The Market Price of the Company’s Stock May Fluctuate Significantly.

The Company cannot predict the prices at which its common stock may trade. The market price of the Company’s common stock may
fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond its control, including: (1) the Company’s quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; (2) actual or anticipated
fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; (3) success or failure of the Company’s business strategy; (4) the Company’s ability to obtain financing as needed; (5) changes in accounting standards, policies,
guidance, interpretations or principles; (6) changes in laws and regulations affecting the Company’s business; (7) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant new business developments or customers;
(8) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; (9) changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or the Company’s ability to meet its earnings guidance, if any; (10) the
operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; (11) investor perception of the Company and the industries in which it operates; (12) results from material litigation or governmental investigations; (13) changes
in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and (14) overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions.

Certain of the Company’s Directors and Officers May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in 21st Century Fox, and Certain of the Company’s Officers
and Directors May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of 21st Century Fox, Which May Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities to 21st Century Fox.

Certain of the Company’s directors and executive officers own shares of 21st Century Fox’s common stock, and the individual
holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of the Company’s officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of 21st Century Fox, including K. Rupert Murdoch,
who serves as the Company’s Executive Chairman and Executive Chairman of 21st Century Fox, Lachlan K. Murdoch, who serves as the Company’sCo-Chairmanand Executive Chairman of 21st Century Fox, and
James R. Murdoch, who serves as a director of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of 21st Century Fox. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and
officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the Company and 21st Century Fox. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between the
Company and 21st Century Fox regarding the terms of the agreements governing the internal reorganization, the Separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies, including with respect to the indemnification of certain matters. In
addition to any other arrangements that the Company and 21st Century Fox may agree to implement, the Company and







21st Century Fox have agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation acknowledges that the Company’s directors and officers, as well as certain of
its stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of the Company and 21st Century Fox), each of
which is referred to as a covered stockholder, are or may become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of 21st Century Fox and certain of its affiliates. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that any
such overlapping person will not be liable to the Company, or to any of its stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of
restricted business opportunities set forth in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation) to 21st Century Fox instead of the Company. As 21st Century Fox does not have a similar provision regarding corporate opportunities in its
certificate of incorporation, the provisions in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation could result in an overlapping person submitting any corporate opportunities other than restricted business opportunities to 21st Century
Fox instead of the Company.

Certain Provisions of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and RestatedBy-laws,Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, Separation and Distribution Agreement and Delaware Law, the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement and the Ownership of the
Company’s Common Stock by the Murdoch Family Trust May Discourage Takeovers, and the Concentration of Ownership Will Affect the Voting Results of Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and RestatedBy-lawscontain certain
anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting
power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and RestatedBy-lawsprovide for, among other things:



•a dual class common equity capital structure;



•a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting;



•special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or the holders of not less than 20% of the
voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock;



•the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the Board of Directors or to make stockholder
proposals at a stockholders’ meeting;



•the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal itsby-laws;



•vacancies on the Board of Directors to be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;



•certain restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and



•the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, Preferred Stock and Series Common Stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may
determine.

These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control
of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable.

In addition, in
connection with the Separation, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights agreement, which it extended in June 2014, June 2015 and again in June 2018. Pursuant to the third amended and restated stockholder rights agreement,
each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock has attached to it a right entitling its holder to purchase from the Company additional shares of its Class A Common Stock and







