Item 1.  Business



General



Priceline.com Incorporated is a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over210,000hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand.  We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw), which we acquired in May 2010.  We refer to Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com collectively as the "Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us."



We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com companies.  Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel and rental car reservations.  Our business is driven primarily by international results.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, our international business (the significant majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately78%of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately88%of our consolidated operating income.  Given that the business of our international operations is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit.



Our priceline.com brand in the U.S. offers merchantName Your Own Price®travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue.  Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue.   Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues betweenName Your Own Price®and retail travel services.  Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both ourName Your Own Price®and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:



•Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;

•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services;

•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservations, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service;

•Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to both ourName Your Own Price®airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and









•Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.



For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had gross profit of approximately

$3.1 billion

comprised of "agency" gross profit, "merchant" gross profit, and "other" gross profit.  Agency gross profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency gross profit, which represented the substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2011, consisted of: (1) travel commissions; (2) GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above; and (3) customer processing fees.   Merchant gross profit is derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer’s credit card for the travel services provided, and consisted of: (1) transaction gross profit representing revenue charged to a customer, less the cost of revenue amount charged by suppliers in connection with the reservations provided through our

Name Your Own Price

®

hotel room reservation, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as through our price-disclosed vacation packages services; (2) transaction gross profit representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with our merchant price-disclosed services; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of our

Name Your Own Price

®

airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and our merchant price-disclosed services; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other gross profit is derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.



Priceline.com Incorporated was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The Priceline Group Business Model



We own and operate an online global travel service network that attracts consumers wishing to make travel reservations and connects them in an efficient and innovative manner with suppliers of high quality travel services around the world, including over210,000hotel properties.  We offer customers the ability to make hotel reservations on a worldwide basis primarily under the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer customers the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets, rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises through both a traditional, price-disclosed "retail" manner, and through our proprietary demand-collection system known asName Your Own Price®.  In May 2010, we acquired TravelJigsaw and in late 2011, we re-branded TravelJigsaw as "rentalcars.com."  Through rentalcars.com, we offer retail price-disclosed rental car reservations around the world.



International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Reservation Services.  We offer a retail price-disclosed hotel reservation service through our international operations, which consist primarily of Booking.com B.V., the world’s leading Internet hotel reservation service, with offices worldwide and priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel reservation service with operations primarily in Asia ("Agoda").  Booking.com works with over185,000hotels and accommodations in over160countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in41languages.  For geographic related information, see Note18to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



International: Price-Disclosed Rental Car Reservation Services.  We offer a retail price-disclosed rental car reservation service through rentalcars.com, a Manchester, U.K.-based rental car reservation service, which we acquired in May 2010 ("rentalcars.com").  Rentalcars.com offers rental car reservations throughout the world.  Certain members of our management own a noncontrolling interest in rentalcars.com.  See Note13to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  For geographic related information, see Note18to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



United States: Name Your Own Price®Travel Services.  We have developed a unique pricing system that allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer’s offer and decide whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the consumer.  ThisName Your Own Price®service uses the flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess capacity without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We believe that ourName Your Own Price®service offers substantial benefits to both buyers and sellers.  We often refer to ourName Your Own Price®services as "opaque" services because not all aspects of the travel service are visible to the consumer before making an offer.



United States: Price-Disclosed Travel Services.  In the United States, we offer customers the ability to purchase reservations for price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically selects hotel reservation, rental car, airline flight or other travel itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer’s request.  These results usually include the identity of









the travel supplier, the exact price of the itinerary, and other details relating to the itineraries.  In some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time of travel.



We believe that the combination of our retail price-disclosed model and ourName Your Own Price®model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue and gross profit.



The Priceline Group Strategy



The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels.  We are the leader in the worldwide online hotel reservation market based on room nights booked.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.



•Maintain and Grow Our Position as the Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service.  The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately78%of our gross bookings and approximately88%of our consolidated operating income were generated through our international brands - primarily Booking.com.  We expect that our international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross bookings and operating income over the long term.  We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate.  Because of what we believe to be superior growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel demand.



The positioning of our Booking.com and Agoda hotel reservation services has given us access to a broader international market.  We intend to use Booking.com and Agoda to further develop our worldwide operations, especially in geographic areas where Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing.  We continue to develop the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we believe will allow us to better satisfy demand across markets.



We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service internationally and maintain and grow our position as the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.



•Continue to be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious Leisure Travelers.  OurName Your Own Price®service in the United States allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands and service features in return for prices that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.  We also offer price-disclosed retail services in the United States to our consumers to compliment theName Your Own Price®service.  We believe that by offering a "one-stop-shopping" solution to our customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are prepared to accept the unique restrictions of ourName Your Own Price®service in exchange for receiving significant savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their travel itinerary prior to purchasing.



•Become a Leading Worldwide Online Rental Car Reservation Service.  In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car hire services throughout the world, with customer support provided in38languages.











Service Offerings — International



Retail Hotels.We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and Agoda brands.  Booking.com works with over185,000hotels and accommodations in over160countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in41languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.



Retail Rental Cars.In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car hire services in more than4,000locations throughout the world, with customer support provided in38languages.  Customers using rentalcars.com can book a full range of vehicles online through one of rentalcars.com’s branded websites, or they can reserve their cars by phone.  Rentalcars.com primarily offers its services under a semi-opaque merchant model that allows customers to see the price, vehicle type and rental location, but not the identity of the supplier until the reservation is made.



Service Offerings — United States



Name Your Own Price®Hotels.  Through ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well as several independent property owners participate in ourName Your Own Price®service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with related rules accessible through a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount distributors who sell to the public.  However, hotels may make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under other arrangements.



To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to check in and check out, (3) the "class" of service (1, 2, 2½, 3, 3½, 4, 5-star or "resort"), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (5) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation that cannot be refunded or changed.  The target market for ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service is the leisure travel market.



Retail Hotels.We also operate a price-disclosed hotel service in the United States which enables our customers to select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to booking.  We offer such reservations through a merchant model, as well as through an agency model for hotel room night reservations sourced through the Booking.com extranet.



Name Your Own Price®Rental Cars.  OurName Your Own Price®rental car service is currently available in substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car program.  Consumers can access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer’s offer is accepted, it cannot be refunded or changed, and we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s credit card and notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental car.



Retail Rental Cars.We also offer a price-disclosed rental car service on www.priceline.com and other websites which enables our customers in the United States to choose between price-disclosed orName Your Own Price®rental cars.  Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the "agency" model, under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and accommodates one-way and off-airport reservations.  As with our retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with ourName Your Own Price®service.  Customers can select the exact rental car brand they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.











Name Your Own Price®Airline Tickets.  OurName Your Own Price®airline ticket service operates in a manner similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to:

•fly on any one of our participating airline partners;

•leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and return;

•purchase only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and return;

•accept at least one stop or connection;

•receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

•accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

If a customer’s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.



Retail Airline Tickets.We also offer our customers in the United States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and with disclosed itineraries.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  These airline tickets do not have the restrictions associated with ourName Your Own Price®service.  For example, in addition to having fully disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.



With respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the combination of ourName Your Own Price®model and the retail model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car components.  Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  In addition, customers can elect to add a rental car to their package.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.



Destination Services.  We currently offer customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel destinations.  This service is offered to consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation reservation, and also as a standalone service.



Cruises.  We also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc. ("WTH"), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers in the United States to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information from cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful cruise bookings.



Travel Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage, property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver insurance.  The travel insurance is arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc. and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.  We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our customers.



While we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance the travel experience of our customers.











Marketing and Brand Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  In late 2011, we re-branded our international rental car business as rentalcars.com, and intend to market that brand worldwide through online advertising.  During 2011, our total online advertising expenses were approximately$919.2 million, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online affiliate marketing.  We also invested approximately$35.5 millionin priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the United States.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to aggressively promote brand awareness, primarily through online means.



As our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our advertising expense.  Specifically, online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010.  The increase is driven primarily by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our advertising by brand.  Our international operations are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, a trend which we expect to continue.  Furthermore, the priceline.com brand in the U.S. is obtaining an increasing share of its traffic through online advertising, a trend which we also expect to continue.  We recognize advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations when the travel is completed.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Google, Microsoft or Expedia, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.



We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to:

•Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Elong, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com, Holiday Auto and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Rakuten, Jalan and Wotif;



•travel suppliers such as hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including without limitation Room Key, a recently launched hotel search engine owned by several major hotel companies;



•large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook, Groupon and Living Social;



•traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;



•online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Trivago.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com and HotelsCombined (each sometimes referred to as a "meta-search" site) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and



•operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.



Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally.  For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google recently launched a new flight search tool that enables users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes online travel agent ("OTA") participation within the search results.  Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the user.  In addition, Microsoft has launchedBing Travel, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them.  "Meta-search" sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher's specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites









and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  Furthermore, certain suppliers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results.  Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which offers its users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate a clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers' own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Several major hotel companies, including Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group and Marriott, have launched Room Key, a hotel search engine that competes directly with our hotel room night reservation services.  The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving demand directly to their brand websites, thus reducing the share received by online travel agencies.  They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours.  If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer.



Hotels are also increasingly offering hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  Expedia recently entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name.  If these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.



Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense over the recent past.  For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign.  In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount.  As with our

Name Your Own Price

®

hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a modest decline in room night reservations in 2011 compared to 2010.  In addition, hotels are increasingly offering discounted hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social.  If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.  As a result, we believe our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could further decrease.



We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels.



The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of the effort of many hotel, airline and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, to drive online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.  See "Risk Factors - Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance."











Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL-server relational database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our international operations are primarily hosted in England, the Netherlands and Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure typical of hosted data centers.



Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are hosted at two U.S. data center locations, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  Our network operations center is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters and monitors all web hosting facilities.  All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers and multiple back-up systems.  If  one hosting facility were inaccessible, for any reason, we would need to shift all traffic to another hosting facility.



Customer service for our international business is provided primarily through in-house customer call centers.  We outsource most of our U.S.-based priceline.com call center and customer service functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.



Intellectual Property



Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering the Priceline Group's services.  We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success.  We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures.  We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in our services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally.  We currently hold numerous issued United States patents and pending United States and international patent applications.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. As the Priceline Group expands internationally, we must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. See, "Risk Factors -We face risks related to our intellectual property."



Governmental Regulation



The services we provide are subject to various federal, state, international and local regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a "seller of travel" in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, our services may be subject to various federal, state, international and local taxing regulations.  See "Risk Factors-Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations" and "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities."



We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.











In addition, our strategy involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Asia, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments and tax laws.  Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences, which may have an adverse effect on our business.



Seasonality



A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  However, we do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses.  However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.

In addition,

Our

Name Your Own Price

®

services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated.  However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including Booking.com and Agoda, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.



Employees



As of January 31, 2012, we employed approximately5,000full-time employees, of which approximately1,000are based in the United States and approximately4,000are based in our international offices. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions.



We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  See "Risk Factors-We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed."



The Priceline Group Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.agoda.com and www.rentalcars.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on that website.













