Item 1.  Business



General



Priceline.com Incorporated is a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over 150,000 hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer our customers car rental reservations, airline tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination services. We refer to Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw collectively as the “Priceline Group,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us.”



We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the Booking.com and Agoda hotel reservation businesses and the TravelJigsaw rental car reservation business.  Our principal goal is to be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.  Our business is driven primarily by international results.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, our international business — the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com — represented approximately 69% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 82% of our consolidated operating income.  Given that the business of our internation
al operations is primarily comprised of Booking.com hotel reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit.



Because our domestic services include merchantName Your Own Price®travel services, which are reported on a “gross” basis, while both our domestic and international retail price-disclosed travel services are primarily recorded on a “net” basis, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues betweenName Your Own Price®and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:











·Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;



·Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservations, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service; and



·Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services;



·Global distribution system (“GDS”) reservation booking fees related to both ourName Your Own Price®airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and



·Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.



Name Your Own Price

Name Your Own Price



Priceline.com Incorporated was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “PCLN.”  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The Priceline Group Business Model



We own and operate a global travel service network that attracts consumers wishing to make travel reservations and connects them in a unique and innovative manner with suppliers of high quality travel services around the world.  We offer customers the ability to make hotel reservations on a worldwide basis primarily under the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer customers the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets, rental car days, vacations packages, cruises and destination services through both a traditional, price-disclosed “retail” manner, and through our proprietary demand-collection system known asName Your Own Price®.  Through TravelJigsaw, which we acqui
red in May 2010, we offer retail price-disclosed rental car reservations in 80 countries around the world.  These services are made available over the Internet through websites that we own or control, and are provided by major travel suppliers, including more than 150,000 hotel properties worldwide.











International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Reservation Services.  We offer a retail price-disclosed hotel reservation service through our international operations, which consist primarily of Booking.com B.V., one of the world’s leading Internet hotel reservation services, with more than thirty offices worldwide and priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel reservation service with operations primarily in Thailand (“Agoda”).  Booking.com works with over 120,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 99 countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 41 languages.  For geographic related information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



International: Price-Disclosed Rental Car Reservation Services.  We offer a retail price-disclosed rental car reservation service through TravelJigsaw Limited (“TravelJigsaw”), a Manchester, U.K.-based rental car reservation service, which we acquired in May 2010.  TravelJigsaw has locations in 80 countries in North America, South & Central America, Europe, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean, Africa and the Middle East.  Certain members of our management own a noncontrolling interest in TravelJigsaw.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  For geographic related information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



United States: Name Your Own Price

®

Travel Services.  We have developed a unique pricing system known as a “demand collection system” that uses the information sharing and communications power of the Internet to create a different way of pricing services.  We believe our services have created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate incremental revenue by selling their services at below retail prices, provided that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  Our demand collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to pa
y when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer’s offer and decide whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the consumer.  This system uses the flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess capacity.  We believe that our demand collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional seller-driven pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits to both buyers and sellers.  We often refer to services offered through ourName Your Own Price

®

service as “opaque” services because not all aspects of the travel service are visible to the consumer before maki
ng an offer.











United States: Retail Travel Services.  In the United States, we offer customers the ability to purchase price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental car days, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically selects hotel reservation, rental car, airline flight or other travel itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer’s request.  These results usually include the identity of the travel supplier, the exact price of the itinerary, and other details relating to the itineraries.  In some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time of travel.



We believe that the combination of our retail price-disclosed model and ourName Your Own Price®model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



The Priceline Group Strategy



The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels.  Measured by room nights booked, we are the leader in the online hotel reservation market internationally and in the deep discount segment of this market in the United States.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.



·Maintain and Grow Our Position as the Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service.  The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers are moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States
.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, our international business — the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com — represented approximately 69% of our gross bookings, and contributed approximately 82% of our consolidated operating income during that period.  We expect that our international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross bookings and operating income over the long term.  Because of what we believe to be superior growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel demand.



The positioning of our Booking.com and Agoda hotel reservation services has given us access to a broader international market.  We intend to use Booking.com and Agoda to further develop our worldwide operations, especially in geographic areas where Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing.  We have begun, and intend to continue, to develop the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we believe will allow us to better satisfy demand across markets.











We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service internationally and maintain and grow our position as the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.



·Continue to be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious Leisure Travelers.  OurName Your Own Price®demand collection system in the United States allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.  We have ex
pended significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail services in the United States to our consumers to compliment theName Your Own Price®service.  We believe that by offering a “one-stop-shopping” solution to our customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are prepared to accept the unique restrictions of ourName Your Own Price®service in exchange for receiving significant savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their travel itinerary prior to purchasing.



We intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding travel selection at competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our website as well as “cross-sell” opportunities (for example, offering a hotel customer the opportunity to add a rental car reservation to the transaction) to maximize customer conversion.











·Become a Leading Worldwide Online Rental Car Reservation Service.  In May 2010, we acquired TravelJigsaw, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service.  TravelJigsaw offers its car hire services in more than 4,000 locations in 80 countries in Europe, the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, with customer support provided in 20 languages.



Service Offerings — International



Retail Hotels.We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and Agoda brands.  Booking.com works with over 120,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 99 countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 41 languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  Hotels may also participate in Agoda via consolidator relationships.



Retail Rental Cars.In May 2010, we acquired TravelJigsaw, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service.  TravelJigsaw offers its car hire services in more than 4,000 locations in 80 countries in Europe, the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, with customer support provided in 20 languages.  Customers using TravelJigsaw can book a full range of vehicles online through one of TravelJigsaw’s branded websites, or they can reserve their cars by phone.  TravelJigsaw primarily offers its services under a semi-opaque merchant model that allows customers to see the price, vehicle type and rental location, but not the identity of the supplier until the reservation is made.



Service Offerings — United States



Name Your Own Price®Hotels.  Through ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well as several important real estate investment trusts and independent property owners participate in ourName Your Own Price®service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with related rules accessible through a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under other arrangements.











To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to check in and check out, (3) the “class” of service (1, 2, 2½, 3, 3½, 4, 5-star or “resort”), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (5) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation that cannot be refunded or changed.  The target market for ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service is the leisure travel market.



Retail Hotels.We also operate a price-disclosed hotel service in the United States that enables our customers to select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to booking.



Name Your Own Price®Rental Cars.  OurName Your Own Price®rental car service is currently available in substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car program.  Consumers can access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price they want to pay per-day, excl
uding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer’s offer is accepted, it cannot be refunded or changed, and we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s credit card and notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental car.



Retail Rental Cars.We also offer a price-disclosed rental car service on www.priceline.com and other websites that enables our customers in the United States to choose between price-disclosed orName Your Own Price®rental cars.  Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the “agency” model, under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and accommodates one-way and off-airport reservations.  As with our retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with ourName Your Own Price®service.  Customers can select the exact rental car brand they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.



Name Your Own Price®Airline Tickets.  There are a total of 12 domestic airlines and 18 international airlines participating in ourName Your Own Price®airline ticket service.



OurName Your Own Price®airline ticket service operates in a manner similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to:



·fly on any one of our participating airline partners;



·leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and return;



·purchase only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and return;



·accept at least one stop or connection;



·receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and



·accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.











If a customer’s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.  For example, in some cases we disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of it being accepted.  We may also offer a customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.



Retail Airline Tickets.We also offer our customers in the United States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and with disclosed itineraries.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  These airline tickets do not have the restrictions associated with ourName Your Own Price®service.  For example, in addition to having fully disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007, we eliminated booking fees we had previously charged on the sale of published price retail airline tickets.



With respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the combination of ourName Your Own Price®model and the retail model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car components.  Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  In addition, customers can elect to add a rental car to their package.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.



Destination Services.  We currently offer customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel destinations.  This service is offered to consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation reservation, and also as a standalone service.



Cruises.  We also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc. (“WTH”), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers in the United States to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information from 21 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful cruise bookings.



Travel Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage, property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver insurance.  The travel insurance is arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc. and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.  We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our customers.



While we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance the travel experience of our customers.











Marketing and Brand Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  During 2010, our total online advertising expenses were approximately $552.1 million, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online affiliate marketing.  We also invested approximately $35.7 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the United States.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers can save money using our services.  Underlying our marketing strategy is our belief that our target market is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy consumers.  We intend to continue to promote our brands aggressively throughout 2011.



As our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our advertising expense.  Specifically, because our international operations utilize Internet search engines and online affiliate marketing, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2011.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.



We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to:



·Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Holiday Auto, Car Trawler, Ctrip, Rakuten and Wotif;



·travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business;



·large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook and Groupon;



·traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;



·online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, HotelsCombined and SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as “meta-search” sites) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and



·operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.











Traditional online travel companies have created new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage.  For example, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount because, similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel booking service, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name “Expedia Unpublished Rates.”  If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease.  Onlin
e travel companies have also offered consumers value features such as, without limitation, the elimination and/or reduction of processing fees, the adoption of “best price” guarantees and the waiver of cancellation and change fees.  The elimination of processing fees on retail airline tickets by us and our major competitors, coupled with the recent significant year over year increases in retail air fares, has led consumers to engage in increased shopping behavior before making a purchase.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness as traffic obtained through online advertising becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our web site.



Bing Travel



Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.



Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to:



·marketing and promotional campaigns;

·attracting traffic to their websites;











·attracting and retaining key employees;

·securing vendors and supply; and

·website and systems development.



Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  See “Risk Factors — Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.”



Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL-servicer relational database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital ce
rtificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our international operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the Netherlands and NTT in Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure typical of hosted data centers.



Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple back-up systems in Jersey City.  We also maintain a second web hosting facility at AT&T in New York City.  Our network operations center monitors both web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters.  All three facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our secondary site at AT&T.



We outsource most of our domestic call center and customer service functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.



Intellectual Property



We currently hold twenty-eight issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207; 5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090; 6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503; 7,188,176; 7,203,660; 7,333,941; 7,386,508; 7,472,074; 7,526,089: 7,617,491; 7,620,619; 7,664,672; 7,769,612; 7,801,751; 7,848,940; 7,848,945 and over twenty pending United States and foreign patent applications.  All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4, 2016 and December 4, 2027.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.











While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:



·a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those features;



·our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties;



·any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties;



·the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;



·competitors or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications;



·because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories;



·new prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or



·legislative or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of our patent rights.



There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called “business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, there has been recent discussion in various federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called “business method” patents. The U.S. Supreme Court, in a recent decision inBilski v. Kappos, partially addressed the patentability of so-called business method patents.  We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision or n
ew legislation will have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.  See “Risk Factors — We face risks related to our intellectual property.”



We hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE®and PRICELINE.COM®in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. Our global service mark portfolio currently comprises over 160 service mark registrations.  In the U.S., we own U.S. Service Mark Registration No. 2,272,659 for PRICELINE®as well as Nos. 2,481,752 and 2,481,112 for PRICELINE.COM®.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos. 2,647,673 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE®; 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE®; 3,357,458 for PRICELINE EUROPE®; and numerous others. Through our subsidiary Travelweb LLC, we own U. S. Registrations Nos. 2,413,798 and 3,899,961 for TRAVELWEB®. U.S. service mark registrations Nos. 3,435,703 for LOWESTFARE.COM®; Nos. 2750062 and 3763002 for BREEZENET®and BREEZENET.COM®; and No. 2,794,403 for BNM.COM®are registered through another subsidiary, Lowestfare.com LLC.



In addition, we hold European Community Registrations Nos. 3413846 and 3413952 for BOOKINGS®; No. 5752274 for the BOOKING.COM®Logo; and No. 3859618 for ACTIVE HOTELS®.  We also own Benelux Registrations Nos. 762051 and 762054 and French Registration No. 43276223 for the BOOKINGS®service mark. We also own French Registration No. 43276225 for BOOKING. Bo
oking.com owns U.S. common law service mark rights in the BOOKING.COMsmword mark and U.S. Registration No. 3,849,615 for Blue Globe and Suitcase.



We aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and affiliate agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register, maintain and enforce our service marks in the United States and internationally, however, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are or may be made available online, regardless of our continuous efforts to police and register our marks. See, “Risk Factors —We face risks related to our intellectual property.”



We currently own hundreds of Internet domain names in various top level domains, particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies such as the World Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is still evolving.  The Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly enhanced our  ability to deter the infringing registration and use of our service marks in domain names by third parties and to assert our service mark registrations against them.  To maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution of their distinctiveness, we actively pursue, in the U.S. and abroad,
 significant infringers, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who for commercial purposes misappropriate our service marks and register misspellings thereof as domain names.  See, “Risk Factors — We face risks related to our intellectual property.”











Governmental Regulation



The services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a “seller of travel.”  In addition, our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes”.



We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data, both in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.



All of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.



We are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online commerce.  Presently, there are relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing, but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we conduct online b
usiness. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See “RiskFactors — Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business,”and“Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.”



Our international operations are subject to various foreign regulations and governing bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our international operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.











Seasonality



OurName Your Own Price®services are non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated.  However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including our international operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  Therefore, as our retail hotel business continu
es to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.



Employees



As of January 31, 2011, we employed approximately 3,400 full-time employees, of which approximately 750 are based in the United States and approximately 2,650 are based in our international offices. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions.



We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.



The Priceline Group Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.agoda.com and www.carhire3000.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the publi
c may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on that website.











