Item 1.  Business



We are a leading provider of online travel and travel related reservation and search services.  Through our online travel agent ("OTA") services, we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world.  We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands.  Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises.  We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com.  We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK.  We recently acquired OpenTable, a leading provider of online restaurant reservations.  We believe that the online restaurant reservation business is complementary to our online travel businesses, and that both OpenTable and our travel businesses will benefit from adding OpenTable to The Priceline Group.  We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us."



We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable, which are independently managed and operated brands.  Our principal goal is to serve consumers and our travel service provider and restaurant partners with worldwide leadership in online reservation services.  Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda.com and rentalcars.com and the results of the internationally based websites of KAYAK and, as of July 24, 2014, OpenTable (in each case regardless of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while making a reservation or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant).  During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately87%of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately94%of our consolidated operating income.  A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations.  See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information.



The Priceline Group Inc. was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  On April 1, 2014, the Company changed its name from priceline.com Incorporated to The Priceline Group Inc.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The Priceline Group Business Model



We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:



•Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;










•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, airline ticket and vacation package reservation services;

•Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps;

•Beginning on July 24, 2014, revenues recognized by OpenTable, which consist of reservation revenues (a fee for each restaurant guest seated through OpenTable's online reservation service), subscription fees for reservation management services and other revenues; and

•Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to ourName Your Own Price®hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services and our price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services.



Our priceline.com brand offers merchantName Your Own Price®opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue.  All of our other services are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue.  Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues betweenName Your Own Price®travel services and other services.  Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail,Name Your Own Price®and semi-opaque travel services and our advertising and other services.  Consequently, gross profit is an important measure to evaluate growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the different methods of recording revenue and cost of revenue between ourName Your Own Price®travel services and our other services.



For the year ended

December 31, 2014

, we had gross profit of approximately

$7.6 billion

comprised of "agency" gross profit, "merchant" gross profit, and "other" gross profit.  Agency gross profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services reserved through our websites are determined by third parties.  Agency gross profit, which represented the substantial majority of our total gross profit in


, consists primarily of: (1) travel commissions earned from reservations at Booking.com, priceline.com and rentalcars.com; (2) GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above; and (3) processing fees.  Merchant gross profit is derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the consumer's credit card for the travel services provided, and consists of: (1) transaction gross profit representing the amount charged to a consumer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant accommodation reservation service at agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and

Express Deals

®

service at priceline.com; (2) transaction gross profit representing revenue charged to a consumer less the cost of revenue amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with the reservations provided through our

Name Your Own Price

®

and vacation package reservation services; (3) processing fees charged in connection with our priceline.com merchant reservation services; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (1) revenues earned by KAYAK for sending referrals to OTAs and travel service providers; (2) advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; (3) reservation revenues earned by OpenTable (a fee for each restaurant guest seated through OpenTable's online reservation service); and (4) subscription fees earned by OpenTable for reservation management services.  Revenues from KAYAK are net of intercompany revenues earned from other Priceline Group brands.  See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



The Priceline Group Strategy



The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels, including mobile channels.  We are the leader in the worldwide online accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.  In particular, we aim to be the world leader in online travel and travel related services by (a) providing consumers with the best experience through relentless execution and constant innovation, (b) partnering with travel service providers and restaurants to our mutual benefit, (c) operating entrepreneurial, independent brands that share best practices, and (d) investing in profitable and sustainable growth.



•Providing the best consumer experience.  We believe that offering consumers an outstanding online experience is essential for our future success.  To accomplish this, we focus on providing consumers with a variety of intuitive, easy-to-use online travel and restaurant reservation and search services, a continually increasing number, location and variety of accommodations available through our services, informative and useful content, such as pictures, accommodation details and reviews, and excellent customer service.  For example, Booking.com increasingly provides reservation services for accommodations other than hotels.  Further, we endeavor to provide excellent customer service in a variety of ways, including through our call centers and websites, so that our customers can be confident that booking reservations through us will lead to a positive experience.  We are










constantly innovating our websites and mobile offerings to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations.



•Partnering with travel service providers and restaurants.We aim to establish mutually beneficial relationships with travel service providers and restaurants around the world.  We believe that travel service providers and restaurants can benefit from participating in our services by increasing their distribution channels, demand and inventory utilization in an efficient and cost-effective manner.  Travel service providers and restaurants benefit from our well-known brands and online marketing efforts, expertise in offering an excellent consumer experience through our websites and mobile apps and ability to offer their inventory in markets and to consumers that the travel service provider or restaurant may be unable or unlikely to reach.  For example, an independent hotel may not have the means or expertise to market itself to international travelers, including in other languages, to build and operate effective desktop and mobile websites and online reservation services or to engage in sophisticated online marketing techniques.



•Maintaining multiple, independently managed brands.We employ a strategy of operating multiple, independently managed brands, which we believe allows us the opportunity to offer our reservation services in ways that appeal to different consumers while maintaining an entrepreneurial, competitive spirit among our brands.  We intend to invest resources to support organic growth by all of our brands, whether through increased advertising, geographic expansion, technology innovation or increased access to accommodations, rental cars, restaurants or other services.  We also believe that by operating independently managed brands, we encourage innovation and experimentation by our brands, which allows us to more quickly discern and adapt to changing consumer behaviors and market dynamics.  Although our brands are independently operated, we intend to continue to share best practices, access to services and customers across our brands.  We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing accommodation reservation supply and customer flow, and applying our industry experiences in Europe and the United States to other regions, we can further expand our reservation services globally and maintain and grow our position as a leading provider of worldwide online travel and travel related reservation services.



•Investing in profitable and sustainable growth.Our strategy is to ensure that we offer online services that meet the needs and expectations of both consumers and travel service providers and restaurants and that we believe are or will be likely to result in long-term profitability and growth.  We intend to accomplish this through continuous investment and innovation in growing our businesses in new and current markets, expanding our services and ensuring that we provide an appealing, intuitive and easy-to-use consumer experience through our websites and mobile applications.  We also may pursue strategic transactions.  For example, in 2013 we entered the meta-search business when we acquired KAYAK and in 2014 we entered the online restaurant reservation market when we acquired OpenTable.  We regularly evaluate, and may pursue and consummate, other potential strategic acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or investments, whether to expand our businesses into complementary areas, expand our current businesses, acquire innovative technology or for other reasons.



Service Offerings



Through our OTA services, we connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world.  We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and agoda.com brands.  Our priceline.com brand also offers consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises.  We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com.  We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK.  Through OpenTable, we offer restaurant reservation services to consumers and reservation management services to restaurants.



Booking.com.Booking.com is the world's leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations with operations worldwide and headquarters in the Netherlands.  As ofFebruary 13, 2015, Booking.com offered accommodation reservation services for more than600,000properties in over200countries and territories on its various websites and in42languages, which includes over245,000vacation rental properties (updated property counts are available on the Booking.com website).  Vacation rentals generally consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, apartments, "aparthotels" (which are apartments with a front desk and cleaning service) and chalets and are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties.  Accommodation providers participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, by filing rates and information about the property in Booking.com's proprietary extranet.  In addition, Booking.com has begun to offer website and other marketing services to accommodation providers as part of its BookingSuite initiative.












Priceline.com.Priceline.com offers online travel reservation services primarily in the United States and is headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut.  Through priceline.com, we offer consumers hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations services, as well as vacation packages and cruises.  Priceline.com is a leader in the "opaque" travel reservation business through its pioneeringName Your Own Price®andExpress Deals®hotel, rental car and airline reservation services.  We describe ourName Your Own Price®andExpress Deals®travel services as "opaque" because certain elements of the service, including the identity of the travel service provider, are not disclosed to the consumer prior to making a reservation.  Reservations made through priceline.com's opaque services are subject to various restrictions, depending on the type of reservation, such as being nonrefundable, not being eligible for frequent flyer or award program points and, in the case of airline tickets, requiring flexibility with respect to travel times and stops.  We believe that the combination of priceline.com's retail and opaque models allows it to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious consumers.



Agoda.com.Agoda.com is a leading online accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region, with headquarters in Singapore and operations in Bangkok, Thailand and throughout the region.  Accommodation providers participate in agoda.com, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates and information about the property in agoda.com's proprietary extranet.



Rentalcars.com.Rentalcars.com is a leading worldwide online rental car reservation service and is headquartered in Manchester, England.  Rentalcars.com offers a primarily merchant, online retail and opaque rental car reservation service allowing consumers to make rental car reservations in more than28,000locations throughout the world, with customer support provided in40languages.  Customers using rentalcars.com can book a full range of vehicles online through rentalcars.com's website or mobile app, or they can reserve their cars by phone.



KAYAK.KAYAK, headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, provides an online price comparison service (often referred to as "meta-search") that allows consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation reservation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once.  KAYAK derives revenues from advertising placements on its websites and mobile apps and from sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs.  KAYAK currently does business primarily in the United States, though it intends to continue to invest in expanding its international offerings.



OpenTable.In July 2014 we acquired OpenTable, a leading brand for booking online restaurant reservations.  Headquartered in San Francisco, California, OpenTable provides online restaurant reservation services to consumers and reservation management services to restaurants.  OpenTable does business primarily in the United States, though it intends to continue to invest in expanding its international offerings.



Marketing and Brand Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  As a result, both our online and offline advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue.  During2014, our total online advertising expense was approximately$2.4 billion, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing.  We also invested$231 millionin offline advertising.  We intend to continue a strategy of aggressively promoting brand awareness, primarily through online means although we also intend to increase our offline advertising efforts, including by expanding offline campaigns into additional markets.  For example, building on its first offline advertising campaign, which it launched in the United States in 2013, Booking.com has begun offline advertising campaigns in other markets, including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany.  We recognize a substantial majority of online advertising expense as incurred at the time a reservation is booked, but recognize most of our gross profit when the consumer's travel or dining experience is completed.  As a result, online advertising expense may not be recognized in the same period as the associated gross profit.



Online advertising efficiency, expressed as online advertising as a percentage of gross profit, is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including average daily rates ("ADRs"), costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and the extent to which consumers come directly to our websites or mobile apps for bookings.  From 2011 to 2013 our online advertising grew faster than our gross profit due to (1) year-over-year declines in online advertising returns on investment ("ROIs") and (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group as our international brands grew faster than our U.S. brands and spent a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising.  In 2014, these trends continued, but were more than offset by the inclusion of KAYAK and OpenTable because they spend a lower percentage of gross profit on online advertising than our other










brands.  Also, our consolidated results exclude intercompany advertising by our brands on KAYAK since our acquisition of KAYAK in May 2013.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Amazon and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us.  For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market through its acquisition in 2011 of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, its hotel meta-search service known as "Hotel Finder" and its license of hotel-booking software from Room 77.



We currently, or potentially may in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including:

•online travel reservation services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Travelocity, Elong, Wotif, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide (which has agreed to be acquired by Expedia); laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; Hotel Reservation Service and hotel.de, which are owned by Hotel Reservation Service; and AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Webjet, Rakuten, Jalan, Hotel Urbano, ViajaNet, Submarino Viagens, Despegar/Decolar, 17u.com, Bookit.com, CheapOair, Mr. and Mrs. Smith and eDreams ODIGEO;



•online accommodation search and/or reservation services, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, focused on vacation rental properties, including individually owned properties;



•large online companies, including search, social networking and marketplace companies such as Google, Facebook, Alibaba, Amazon and Groupon;



•traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, many of which combine physical locations, telephone services and online services, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world;



•travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including joint efforts by travel service providers such as Room Key, an online hotel reservation service owned by several major hotel companies;



•online travel search services and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as TripAdvisor, trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), Qunar, Skyscanner and HotelsCombined; and



•online restaurant reservation services, such as TripAdvisor's LaFourchette and Yelp's SeatMe.





Consumers may favor travel services offered by meta-search websites or search companies over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites and












As a result of our acquisition of OpenTable, we now compete or may in the future compete with other restaurant reservation providers, such as LaFourchette, a European restaurant reservation business owned by TripAdvisor, and Yelp's SeatMe service.



Travel service providers, including multi-national hotel chains, rental car companies and airlines with which we conduct business, compete with us in online channels to drive consumers to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors like us.  Travel service providers that sell on their own websites may charge lower prices and, in some instances, offer advantages such as loyalty points or special discounts to members of closed user groups (such as loyalty program participants or customers with registered accounts), any of which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than our services.  Discounting may increase as competition authorities seek to allow increased pricing flexibility among providers of travel service reservations.  We may need to offer similar advantages to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, which could adversely impact our profitability.





Apple, Inc., one of the most innovative and successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation.  In addition, Apple's iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity.  Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system.  Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have.  Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service), Apple Pay (Apple's new mobile payment system) or another mobile app or functionality as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace.  Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world.  As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile










search results.  To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed.



There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodation providers can offer reservations.  For example, companies such as HomeAway and Airbnb offer services focused on providing vacation rental property owners, particularly individuals, an online place to list their accommodations where travelers can search and book such properties.  Companies such as HotelTonight, Tingo and Hipmunk have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on accommodation reservations to consumers and that compete directly with us.  Further, meta-search services may lower the cost for new companies to enter the market by providing a distribution channel without the cost of promoting the new entrant's brand to drive consumers directly to its website.  If any of these services are successful in attracting consumers who would otherwise use our services, our business and results of operations would be harmed.



Competition in U.S. online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" accommodation reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com business has been a leader, has become more intense.  For example, Expedia makes opaque accommodation room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has, we believe, supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins.  We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates," have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate of priceline.com'sName Your Own Price®opaque hotel reservation service, which has been experiencing a decline in room night reservations since 2011.  These and other competitors could also launch opaque rental car services, which could negatively impact priceline.com'sName Your Own Price®andExpress Deals®opaque rental car reservation services.  As a result of this increased competition, our share of the discount accommodation reservation market in the United States could further decrease, which would harm our business and results of operations.



Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, KAYAK, agoda.com, rentalcars.com and OpenTable.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net, Perl, PHP, JavaScript and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and Microsoft SQL-server database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as accommodation room, airline ticket and rental car reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual accommodation service providers, such as individual hotels.  Our applications utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our worldwide operations are primarily hosted in England, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Switzerland and five locations in the United States, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure, UPS conditioned power and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support typical of hosted data centers.  All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers and multiple back-up systems.  If one hosting facility were inaccessible, for any reason, we would need to divert traffic to another hosting facility, which may lead to a disruption to our services, foregone transactions and revenue and consumer complaints.



Customer service for our international business is provided primarily through in-house call centers.  We outsource most of the call center and customer service functions for our U.S. businesses.



Intellectual Property



Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering our services.  We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success.  We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on national, federal, state and common law rights in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures, regulations, conventions and treaties.  We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in our services. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally.  We currently hold numerous issued U.S. and international patents and pending U.S. and international patent applications.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as we deem appropriate.  Effective trademark,










copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. As we continue to expand internationally, protecting our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights involves an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. See "Risk Factors-We face risks related to our intellectual property."



Governmental Regulation



The services we provide are subject to various laws and regulations. For example, our travel services are subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a "seller of travel" in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, our services may be subject to various taxing regulations.  See "Risk Factors - We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities," "Risk Factors - Our financial results will likely be materially impacted by payment of income taxes in the future" and "Risk Factors-Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations."



We are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of reservations, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations and implementations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  See "Risk Factors - Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities" and "Risk Factors - 'Cookie' laws could negatively impact the way we do business."



We are also subject to anti-trust and competition laws, and the competition authorities in various jurisdictions have begun investigations into competitive practices within the online travel industry, including with respect to our business.  See "Risk Factors - As the size of our business grows, we may become increasingly subject to the scrutiny of anti-trust and competition regulators."



In addition, our strategy involves rapid geographic expansion around the world, including in Asia, South America and elsewhere, many of which regions and countries have different legislation, regulatory environments and tax laws.  Compliance with legal, regulatory and tax requirements around the world places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences, which may have an adverse effect on our business.  See "Risk Factors - Regulatory and legal requirements and uncertainties could harm our business."



Seasonality



A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as the expense is incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked.  However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our North American and European businesses.



In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results.  For example, in 2013 our second quarter year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were adversely affected by Easter falling in the first quarter instead of the second quarter, as it did in 2012.  Conversely, our second quarter 2014 year-over-year growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income and operating margins were favorably impacted by Easter falling in the second quarter instead of the first quarter, as it did in 2013.



The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business.  For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less variable advertising expense.  In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters.



We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.












Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately12,700employees, of which approximately2,800are based in the United States and approximately9,900are based outside the United States. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions.



We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  See "Risk Factors-We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed."



The Priceline Group Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.pricelinegroup.com, www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.kayak.com, www.agoda.com, www.rentalcars.com and www.opentable.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.pricelinegroup.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the The Priceline Group Inc. Code of Conduct is available through the www.pricelinegroup.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Conduct will be disclosed on that website.














