Item 1.  Business



Priceline.com Incorporated is a leading online travel company that connects consumers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world.   We offer consumers accommodation reservations (including hotels, bed and breakfasts, hostels, apartments, vacation rentals and other properties) through our Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands.  In the United States, we also offer consumers reservations for rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises through the priceline.com brand.  We offer rental car reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com.  We also allow consumers to easily compare airline ticket, hotel reservation and rental car reservation information from hundreds of travel websites at once through KAYAK's websites and mobile applications (or "apps").  We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com, collectively as "The Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us."



We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com, which are independently managed and operated brands.  Our principal goal is to serve consumers with worldwide leadership in online travel services.  Our business is driven primarily by international results, which consist of the results of Booking.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, as well as, to a lesser extent, the results of KAYAK's internationally based websites, in each case regardless of where the consumer is resident, from where the consumer makes a reservation or where the travel service is provided.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately85%of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately94%of our consolidated operating income.  A significant majority of our gross profit is earned in connection with facilitating accommodation reservations.  See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information.



International: Accommodation Reservation Services.  We offer accommodation reservation services through our international brands, which consist primarily of Booking.com, the world's largest online accommodation service with operations worldwide and headquarters in the Netherlands, and Agoda.com, an online accommodation reservation service with operations primarily in Asia.  As ofFebruary 18, 2014, Booking.com offered accommodation reservation services for more than425,000properties in over190countries and territories on its various websites and in42languages, which includes over 110,000 vacation rental properties.  Vacation rentals consist of, among others, properties categorized as single-unit and multi-unit villas, holiday homes, apartments and chalets; vacation rentals are generally self-catered (i.e., include a kitchen), directly bookable properties.



International: Rental Car Reservation Services.  We offer a merchant rental car reservation service worldwide through rentalcars.com.  Rentalcars.com offers its car rental services throughout the world, with customer support provided in40languages.



United States.  Through our priceline.com U.S. business, we offer a reservation service for accommodations, rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages and cruises.  Our customers can make retail travel reservations on priceline.com, where










they can select all aspects of the travel itinerary, including the travel service provider and price.  Through our

Name Your Own Price

®

service, we offer a proprietary pricing system that allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to pay when submitting an offer for a particular travel service.  We then access databases in which participating travel service providers file secure discounted rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the consumer's offer and decide whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the consumer.  This

Name Your Own Price

®

service uses the flexibility of consumers to enable travel service providers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess capacity without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We describe our

Name Your Own Price

®

travel services as "opaque" because certain elements of the service, including the price and the identity of the travel service provider, are not disclosed to the consumer prior to making a reservation.  In 2012, priceline.com launched

Express Deals

®

, a merchant semi-opaque accommodation reservation service, which allows consumers to see the price of the accommodation prior to making a reservation but not the identity of the travel service provider.  We believe that the combination of our priceline.com U.S. business' retail and opaque models allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious consumers.



Meta-search Services.In May 2013, we acquired KAYAK, which provides a price comparison (often referred to as "meta-search") service allowing consumers to search and compare prices for travel services offered by travel service providers and online travel agents ("OTAs").  KAYAK currently operates primarily in the United States, though it intends to invest more heavily in expanding its international offerings.



Priceline.com Incorporated was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The Priceline Group Business Model



We derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:



•Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of accommodations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;

•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our accommodation, rental car, and vacation package reservation services;

•Advertising revenues primarily earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs, as well as from advertising placements on KAYAK's websites and mobile apps; and

•Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to ourName Your Own Price®accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services.



The retail and semi-opaque travel services offered by our international and U.S. brands are recorded in revenue on a “net” basis and have no associated cost of revenue.  In contrast, our priceline.com U.S. brand offers merchantName Your Own Price®opaque travel services, which are recorded in revenue on a “gross” basis and have associated cost of revenue.  Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues betweenName Your Own Price®travel services and other travel services.  Gross profit reflects the commission or net margin earned for our retail,Name Your Own Price®and semi-opaque travel services.  Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business because, in contrast to our revenues, it is not affected by the mix between ourName Your Own Price®travel services and our other travel services.



For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had gross profit of approximately

$5.7 billion

comprised of "agency" gross profit, "merchant" gross profit, and "other" gross profit.  Agency gross profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services reserved through our websites are determined by third parties.  Agency gross profit, which represented the substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2013, consisted of: (1) travel commissions earned from accommodation reservations at Booking.com and priceline.com and from reservations for rental cars, cruises and other travel services; (2) GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above; and (3) processing fees.  Merchant gross profit is derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the consumer's credit card for the travel services provided, and consisted of: (1) transaction gross profit representing the amount charged to a consumer, less the amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with (a) the accommodation reservations provided through our merchant accommodation reservation service at Agoda.com and priceline.com and (b) the reservations provided through our merchant rental car service at rentalcars.com and

Express Deals

®

service at priceline.com; (2) transaction gross profit representing revenue charged to a consumer less the cost of revenue amount charged to us by travel service providers in connection with the reservations provided through our

Name Your Own










Price®accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, as well as through our vacation packages services; (3) processing fees charged in connection with ourName Your Own Price®accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservations and our merchant price-disclosed accommodation reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other gross profit is derived primarily from advertising revenues earned by KAYAK from sending referrals to travel service providers and online travel agents ("OTAs"), as well as from advertising placements on its websites and mobile applications.  See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



The Priceline Group Strategy



The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels, including mobile.  We are the leader in the worldwide online accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.  In particular, we aim to be the world leader in online travel services by (a) providing consumers with the best experience through relentless execution and constant innovation, (b) partnering with travel service providers to our mutual benefit, (c) operating entrepreneurial, independent brands that share best practices, and (d) investing in profitable and sustainable growth.



•Providing the best consumer experience.  We believe that offering consumers an outstanding online travel experience is essential for our future success.  To accomplish this, we focus on providing consumers with a variety of intuitive, easy-to-use online travel reservation and search services, a continually increasing number, location and variety of accommodations available through our services, informative and useful content, such as pictures, accommodation details and reviews, and excellent customer service.  For example, Booking.com increasingly provides reservation services for accommodations other than hotels.  Further, we endeavor to provide excellent customer service in a variety of ways, including through our call centers and websites, so that our customers can be confident that booking travel reservations through us will lead to a positive travel experience.  We are constantly innovating our websites and mobile offerings to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online travel consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations.



•Partnering with travel service providers.We aim to establish mutually beneficial relationships with travel service providers around the world.  We believe that travel service providers can benefit from participating in our services by increasing their distribution channels, demand and inventory utilization in a more efficient and cost-effective manner than they can on their own.  Travel service providers benefit from our well-known brands and online marketing efforts, expertise in offering an excellent consumer experience through our websites and mobile apps and ability to offer their inventory in markets and to consumers that the travel service provider may be unable or unlikely to reach.  For example, an independent hotel in one country may not have the means or expertise to market itself to international travelers, including in other languages, to build and operate an effective website and online reservation service or to engage in sophisticated online marketing techniques.



•Maintaining multiple, independently managed brands.We employ a strategy of operating multiple, independently managed brands, which we believe allows us the opportunity to offer our reservation services in ways that appeal to different consumers while maintaining an entrepreneurial, competitive spirit among our brands.  We intend to invest resources to support organic growth by all of our brands, whether through increased advertising, geographic expansion, technology innovation or increased access to accommodations, rental cars or other travel services.  We also believe that by operating independently managed brands, we encourage innovation and experimentation by our brands, which allows us to more quickly discern and adapt to changing consumer behaviors and market dynamics.  Although our brands are independently operated, we intend to continue to share best practices, access to travel services and customers across our brands.  We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing accommodation reservation supply and customer flow, and applying our industry experiences in the United States and Europe to other regions, we can further expand our travel reservation services globally and maintain and grow our position as the leading worldwide online accommodation reservation service.



•Investing in profitable and sustainable growth.Our strategy is to ensure that we offer online travel services that meet the needs and expectations of both consumers and our travel service providers and that we believe are or will be likely to result in long-term profitability and growth.  We intend to accomplish this through continuous investment and innovation in growing our businesses in new and current markets, expanding our services and ensuring that we provide an appealing, intuitive and easy-to-use consumer experience through our websites and mobile applications.  We also may pursue strategic transactions.  For example, in 2010 we entered the worldwide










online rental car reservation market when we acquired TravelJigsaw (now known as rentalcars.com) and in 2013 we entered the meta-search business when we acquired KAYAK.  We regularly evaluate, and may pursue and consummate, other potential strategic acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or investments, whether to expand our businesses into complementary areas, expand our current businesses, acquire innovative technology or for other reasons.



Service Offerings - International



Accommodations.We offer accommodation reservation services worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and Agoda.com brands.  As ofFebruary 18, 2014, Booking.com worked with over425,000properties in over190countries and territories offering reservations on various websites and in42languages.  Properties participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, and Agoda.com, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranets.



Rental Cars.Rentalcars.com offers its car rental services in more than6,000locations throughout the world, with customer support provided in40languages.  Customers using rentalcars.com can book a full range of vehicles online through one of rentalcars.com's branded websites, or they can reserve their cars by phone.



Service Offerings - United States



Opaque Hotels

.  Through our

Name Your Own Price

®

opaque hotel reservation service, consumers can make reservations at hotels in substantially all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant U.S. national hotel chains as well as many independent property owners participate in our

Name Your Own Price

®

service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with related rules accessible through a GDS database.  These specific rates generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount distributors who sell to the public.  However, hotels may make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under other arrangements.  To make an offer, a consumer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in which the consumer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the consumer wishes to check in and check out, (3) the "class" of service (1, 2, 2½, 3, 3½, 4, 5-star or "resort"), (4) the price the consumer is willing to pay, and (5) the consumer's valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to stay at any one of our participating hotels matching their selected criteria and accept a reservation that cannot be refunded or changed.  If a consumer's offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the consumer by providing guidance to the consumer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.  The target market for our

Name Your Own Price

®

hotel reservation service is the leisure travel market.



In 2012, we launchedExpress Deals®, a semi-opaque, price-disclosed hotel reservation service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the hotel.



Retail Hotels.We operate a retail hotel reservation service in the United States which enables consumers to select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to booking.



Opaque Rental Cars.  OurName Your Own Price®opaque rental car service is currently available in substantially all major U.S. airport markets.  Leading rental car companies in the United States participate in our opaque rental car reservation service.  Consumers can access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a consumer's offer is accepted, it cannot be refunded or changed, and we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the consumer's credit card and notify the consumer of the rental car company and location providing the rental car.  If a consumer's offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the consumer by providing guidance to the consumer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.



Retail Rental Cars.We offer a retail rental car reservation service through priceline.com and other brands in the United States through which consumers can select the rental car brand, car type, pick-up location and price prior to booking a reservation.



Opaque Airline Tickets.  OurName Your Own Price®opaque airline ticket reservation service operates in a manner similar to ourName Your Own Price®opaque accommodation reservation service.  To make an offer, a consumer specifies: (1) the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the consumer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the










consumer is willing to pay, and (4) the consumer's valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to:



•fly on any one of our participating airline partners;

•leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and return;

•purchase only coach class tickets;

•accept at least one stop or connection;

•receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

•accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

If a consumer's offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the consumer by providing guidance to the consumer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.



Retail Airline Tickets.We offer consumers in the United States the ability to purchase airline tickets at disclosed prices and with disclosed itineraries.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  Retail airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.



With respect to each of our accommodation, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, we believe the combination of ourName Your Own Price®opaque service and the retail price-disclosed service, and in the case of hotel room reservations, our semi-opaqueExpress Deals®service, allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious consumers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumers in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare, accommodation and rental car components.  Consumers can select the exact accommodation that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  In addition, consumers can elect to add a rental car to their package.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.



Other Services.Through priceline.com, we offer consumers the opportunity to purchase cruises and travel insurance.  We earn a commission on cruise reservations and we retain a fee for every insurance policy purchased through us.  The travel insurance is arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc. and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.



Service Offerings - Meta-search



Through KAYAK, we offer a travel meta-search service that allows consumers to easily compare travel itineraries, including airline ticket, accommodation reservation and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of travel websites at once.  KAYAK derives revenues from advertising placements on its websites and mobile apps and from sending referrals to travel service providers and OTAs.  KAYAK currently operates primarily in the United States, though it intends to invest more heavily in expanding its international offerings.



Marketing and Brand Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  During2013, our total online advertising expense was approximately$1.8 billion, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines, meta-search and travel research services and affiliate marketing.  We also invested approximately$127.5 millionin offline advertising.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to aggressively promote brand awareness, primarily through online means although we intend to increase our offline advertising support for our brands, including expanding campaigns into additional markets.  We recognize a substantial majority of online advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize most of our gross profit when the consumer's travel is completed.  As a result, online advertising expense may not be recognized in the same period as the associated gross profit.



Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and that are, in some cases, outside of our control, including average daily rates ("ADRs"), costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites or mobile apps for future bookings.  We use online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites.  As a result, our online advertising expense has










increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue.  In addition, our online advertising has grown faster than our gross profit due to (1) lower returns on investment ("ROIs") from our online advertising, (2) brand mix within The Priceline Group, and (3) channel mix within our brands.  Our online advertising ROIs have been down year-over-year.  Furthermore, our international brands are generally growing faster than our U.S. brands, and typically spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising.  Finally, certain of our brands are obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple and Facebook, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us.



We currently or potentially will compete with a variety of companies, including:

•Online travel reservation services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Elong, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; Hotel Reservation Service and hotel.de, which are owned by Hotel Reservation Service; and AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, HomeAway, MakeMyTrip, Webjet, Rakuten, Jalan, Hotel Urbano, ViajaNet, Submarino Viagens, Despegar/Decolar, 17u.com, Bookit.com, CheapOair, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, ODIGEO and Wotif;



•large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Facebook, Groupon and Living Social;



•traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators, many of which combine physical locations, telephone services and online services, such as Carlson Wagonlit, American Express, Thomas Cook and Tui Travel, as well as thousands of individual travel agencies around the world;



•travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car companies and airlines, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including joint efforts by travel service providers such as Room Key, an online hotel reservation service owned by several major hotel companies; and



•online travel search services and price comparison services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services), such as trivago (in which Expedia has acquired a majority ownership interest), TripAdvisor, Qunar, Skyscanner and HotelsCombined.





As consumers attempt to be more efficient in their shopping behavior, they may favor travel services offered by meta-search sites or search companies over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites and increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs.  To the extent any such consumer behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in










sufficient increases in profits from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in profits experienced by our OTA brands.  Further, meta-search services may evolve into more traditional OTAs by offering consumers the ability to make travel reservations directly through their websites.  For example, TripAdvisor facilitates hotel reservations on its transaction websites Tingo and Jetsetter and intends to allow consumers to make a reservation while staying on TripAdvisor.  To the extent consumers book travel services through a meta-search website or directly with a travel service provider after visiting a meta-search website or meta-search utility on a traditional search engine without using an OTA like us, or if meta-search services limit our participation within their search results, we may need to increase our advertising or other customer acquisition costs to maintain or grow our reservation bookings, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



Travel service providers, including multi-national hotel chains, rental car companies and airlines with which we conduct business, compete with us in online channels to drive consumers to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Travel service providers that sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.





Apple, Inc., one of the most innovative and successful companies in the world and the producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation.  In addition, Apple's iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity.  Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system.  Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources than we have.  Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace.  Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smart phone operating system in the world.  As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results.  To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed.



There has been a proliferation of new channels through which accommodations can offer reservations.  For example, some accommodations offer room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  In 2011, Expedia, one of our largest competitors, entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell accommodation reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name.  New entrants, such as HotelTonight, BackBid, GuestMob, Tingo, Hipmunk and Room 77, have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on accommodation reservations to consumers and that compete directly with us.  If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted accommodation room rates.



In August 2013, Expedia and Travelocity announced that they had entered into an exclusive, long-term strategic marketing agreement, whereby Expedia will power the technology platforms for Travelocity's existing websites in the United States and Canada, while providing Travelocity access to Expedia's supply and customer services.  To the extent this










arrangement enhances Expedia's and/or Travelocity's ability to compete with us in the affected markets, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected.



Competition in U.S. online travel remains intense and online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantages.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" accommodation reservation services to consumers, an area in which our priceline.com U.S. business has been a leader, has become more intense.  For example, Expedia makes opaque accommodation room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and, we believe, has supported this initiative with steeper discounts through lower margins.  As with our opaque

Name Your Own Price

®

accommodation reservation service, the name of the accommodation is not disclosed until after booking.  We believe these offerings, in particular "Expedia Unpublished Rates," have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate of our

Name Your Own Price

®

opaque accommodation service, which began to experience a decline in room night reservations in the third quarter of 2011.  These and other competitors could also launch opaque rental car services, which could negatively impact our opaque

Name Your Own Price

®

rental car service.  If Expedia or others are successful in growing their opaque accommodation reservation services, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque accommodation reservation services over time, and we would face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted accommodation room rates.  In an effort to compete more effectively against these new offerings, in 2012 we launched

Express Deals

®

, a semi-opaque price-disclosed accommodation reservation service.  While

Express Deals

®

has been a significant contributor to the improved performance of our opaque accommodation reservation service, the offering may not ultimately be successful at recovering or growing U.S. accommodation reservation service market share.  As a result of this increased competition, our share of the discount accommodation reservation market in the United States could further decrease, which would harm our business and results of operations.



We believe that a number of factors, including recent year-over-year increases in retail airfares, could cause consumers to engage in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels.  Further, as consumers attempt to be more efficient in their shopping behavior, they may favor travel services offered by search companies or meta-search sites over OTAs, which could reduce traffic to our travel reservation websites, increase consumer awareness of our competitors' brands and websites, increase our advertising and other customer acquisition costs and adversely affect our business, margins and results of operations.  To the extent any such increased shopping behavior leads to growth in our KAYAK meta-search business, such growth may not result in sufficient increases in revenues from our KAYAK meta-search business to offset any related decrease in gross profit or increase in advertising and other customer acquisition costs experienced by our OTA brands.  See "

Risk Factors - Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance

" and "

Risk Factors - Recent trends in consumer adoption and use of mobile devices create new challenges and may enable device companies such as Apple to compete directly with us.

"



Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net, Perl, PHP, JavaScript and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and Microsoft SQL-server database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as accommodation room, airline ticket and rental car reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual accommodation service providers, such as individual hotels.  Our applications utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our worldwide operations are primarily hosted in England, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Switzerland and three locations in the United States, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure, UPS conditioned power and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support typical of hosted data centers.  All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers and multiple back-up systems.  If one hosting facility were inaccessible, for any reason, we would need to divert all traffic to another hosting facility, which may lead to a disruption to our services, resulting in foregone transactions and revenue and consumer complaints.



Customer service for our international business is provided primarily through in-house call centers.  We outsource most of the call center and customer service functions for our priceline.com U.S. business, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.












Intellectual Property



Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering our services.  We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success.  We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on national, federal, state and common law rights in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures, regulations, conventions and treaties.  We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in our services. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally.  We currently hold numerous issued U.S. and international patents and pending U.S. and international patent applications.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as we deem appropriate.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. As we continue to expand internationally, protecting our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights involves an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. See "Risk Factors-We face risks related to our intellectual property."



Governmental Regulation



The services we provide are subject to various laws and regulations. For example, our travel services are subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a "seller of travel" in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, our services may be subject to various taxing regulations.  See "Risk Factors - We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities," "Risk Factors - Our financial results will likely be materially impacted by payment of income taxes in the future" and "Risk Factors-Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations."



We are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel reservations, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  See "Risk Factors - Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities" and "Risk Factors - 'Cookie' laws could negatively impact the way we do business."



In addition, our strategy involves rapid geographic expansion around the world, including in Asia, South America and elsewhere, many of which regions and countries have different legislation, regulatory environments and tax laws.  Compliance with legal, regulatory and tax requirements around the world places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences, which may have an adverse effect on our business.



Seasonality



A meaningful amount of gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which reservations are booked.  However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of accommodation checkouts for the year for our North American and European businesses.



In addition, the date on which certain holidays fall can have an impact on our quarterly results.  For example, if Easter falls in the first quarter of the year but fell in the second quarter of the prior year, year over year first quarter growth rates in revenue, gross profit, operating income, and operating margins can be favorably affected whereas second quarter year over year growth rates would be negatively affected.



The impact of seasonality can be exaggerated in the short-term by the gross bookings growth rate of the business.  For example, in periods where our growth rate substantially decelerates, our operating margins typically benefit from relatively less










variable advertising expense.  In addition, gross profit growth is typically less impacted in the near term due to the benefit of revenue related to reservations booked in previous quarters.



We experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.



Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately9,500employees, of which approximately1,800are based in the United States and approximately7,700are based outside the United States. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions.



We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  See "Risk Factors-We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed."



The Priceline Group Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.agoda.com, www.kayak.com and www.rentalcars.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated Code of Conduct is available through the www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Conduct will be disclosed on that website.














