Item 1.  Business



General



Priceline.com
Incorporated (“priceline.com,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a leading
online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of travel
services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. Internationally, we offer our
customers hotel room reservations in over 90 countries and 32 languages. 
In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to
purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or the
opportunity to use our uniqueName Your Own
Price® service, which allows our customers to make offers for
travel services at discounted prices.



We
launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com
brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the
brands Booking.com worldwide and Agoda in Asia.  Our principal goal is to
be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.  Our business
is driven primarily by international results. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, our international business
— the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com —
represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately
75% of our consolidated operating income. 
Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel
reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of
hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our gross
profit.



Because
our domestic services include merchantName
Your Own Price®travel services, which are reported on a
“gross” basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services
are primarily recorded on a “net” basis, revenue increases and decreases are
impacted by changes in the mix of the sale ofName
Your Own Price®and retail travel services and, consequently,
gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth
in our business.  At present, we derive
substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:



·Commissions earned from the sale of
price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel
services;











·Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from ourName Your Own Price® hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages
service;



·Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;



·Global distribution system (“GDS”)
reservation booking fees related to both ourName
Your Own Price® airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and



·Other gross profit derived primarily from
selling advertising on our websites.



For
the year ended December 31, 2009, we had gross profit of approximately
$1.26 billion comprised of “agency” gross profit, “merchant” gross profit, and
“other” gross profit.

Agency gross
profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the
merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third
parties. Agency gross profit,

which represented the
substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2009,

consisted of: (1) travel
commissions; (2) customer processing fees; and (3) GDS reservation booking
fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Merchant gross profit is derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things,
select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer

.  Merchant gross profit consisted of:

(1) transaction
gross profit representing revenue charged to a customer, less the cost of
revenue amount charged by suppliers in connection with the reservations
provided through ourName Your Own Price® hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as through our price-disclosed
vacation packages services; (2) transaction gross profit representing the
amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale ofName Your Own Price®
airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant
price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS
reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other revenues are derived primarily from
advertising on our websites.



Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol “PCLN.”  Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The priceline.com Business
Model



We
offer customers the abilityto make hotel reservations on a worldwide
basis primarily under the Booking.com and Agoda brands internationally and
primarily under the priceline.com brand in the United States.  In the United States, we also offer customers
the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets,
rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through
both a traditional, price-disclosed “retail” manner, and through our
proprietary demand-collection system known asName Your
Own Price®.  These
services are made available over the Internet through websites that we own or
control, and are provided by major travel suppliers, including more than 78,000
hotel properties worldwide.  We believe
that the combination of our retail price-disclosedmodel and ourName Your Own Price®model allows us to provide a broad array of
options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams
of revenue.








Table of
Contents



International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Services.  We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel
service in Europe, Asia and elsewhere through our international operations,
which consist primarily of Booking.com
B.V., one of the world’s leading Internet hotel reservation services, with more
than twenty offices worldwide, Booking.com Limited, a Cambridge,
England-based Internet hotel reservation distributor (together with Booking.com B.V., “Booking.com”), and priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel distributor with operations primarily
in Singapore and Thailand (“Agoda”).  We
work with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84
countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32
languages.  For geographic related information, see Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Our
international business — the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com —represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings
(an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value,
inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our
customers) in the year ended December 31, 2009, and contributed
approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during that period.  Given that our international business is
primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, revenue earned in connection
with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent the substantial
majority of our gross profit.



United States: Name Your Own Price

®

Travel Services



·Cost
Savings.  OurName Your Own Price®demand collection system allows consumers to
save money in a simple and compelling way. 
Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands, service features
and/or sellers in return for prices that are generally lower than those that
can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.



·Incremental
Revenue for Sellers.  Sellers use
ourName Your Own Price®demand collection system as a revenue
management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting their
existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require








Table of
Contents



consumers to be flexible with respect to brands and service
features.  As a result, ourName Your Own Price®system does not reveal sellers’ brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell services at discounted prices
without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing discount
prices and without competing against their own distributors.



·Proprietary
Seller Networks.  We have
assembled proprietary networks of industry leading sellers that represent high
quality brands.  By establishing
attractive networks of seller participants with reputations for quality, scale
and national presence, we believe that we foster increased participation by
both buyers and sellers.



We
often refer to services offered through ourName
Your Own Price®service as “opaque” services because all
aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer before making an
offer.



United States: Retail Travel Services.  In the United States, we offer customers the
ability to purchase price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental car days, airline
tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically
selects airline flights, hotel reservations, rental car or other travel
itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer’s
request.  These results usually include
the identity of the travel supplier, the exact priceof the itinerary, and other
details relating to the itineraries.  In
some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in
other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time
of travel.



The priceline.com Strategy



The
online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth
as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive
online channels.  Priceline.com has been
a leader in the hotel reservation market internationally and in the deep
discount segment of this market in the United States.  Our strategy is to continue to participate
broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.



·Become the
Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service.  The size of the travel market outside of the
United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and
e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the
United States.  However, international
consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online
travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue
to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2009,
our international business — the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com — represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings,
and contributed approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during
that period.  We expect that our
international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross
bookings and operating income (before taking into account the offsetting
impacts of foreign exchange, if any) over the long term.  Because of what we believe to be superior
growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we
intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues
represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel
demand.



We
believe that the positioning of our Booking.com hotel reservation service gives
us a foothold into a broader international market.  We intend to use Agoda, the online hotel
distributor with operations primarily in Singapore and Thailand, which we
acquired in 2007, to further develop our operations throughout Asia, where
Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing at a substantially
greater pace than in the United States over the last several years.  We have begun, and intend to continue,
development of the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we
believe will allow us to monetize demand across international markets.  In addition, from time to time we explore
strategic transactions and acquisitions that, among other things, allow us to
provide our services to new markets.  We
believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and
customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and
Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service
internationally and become the leading worldwide online hotel reservation
service.








Table of
Contents



·Continue to
be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious
Leisure Travelers.  OurName Your Own Price®demand collection system in the United States
allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are lower
than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
distribution channels.  We have expended
significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail services
in the United States to our consumers to compliment theName Your Own Price®service. 
We believe that by offering a “one-stop-shopping” solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of ourName Your Own Price®service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  In
June 2007, we eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline
tickets as part of our strategy to provide value to our customers, and in 2008,
we reduced price-disclosed hotel booking fees and eliminated priceline.com hotel
change fees.



We
intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail
offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding travel selection at
competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our
website as well as “cross-sell” opportunities (for example, offering a hotel
customer the opportunity to add a rental car reservation to the transaction) to
maximize customer conversion.



·Competitive
functionality:We continue to expend significant resources to
remain competitive in terms of the features and functionality we offer our
customers.  For example, since launching
our domestic retail air service, we added the ability to search for flexible
dates or alternative airports, book one-way and multi-destination itineraries
and easily make modifications to search criteria.  In addition, we offer a personal experience,
where individualized content, such as special deals or favorite hotels, can be
presented based upon preferences set by the customer or a customer’s previous
activity on one of our sites. In 2009, we launched the priceline Hotel
Negotiator iPhone application, which allows travelers to book aName Your Own Price®or price-disclosed hotel room reservations
over the iphone.



·Competitive
selection and pricing:We believe that having a wide selection of
travel options at competitive pricing is critical to our success.  For example, we have eliminated booking fees
on price-disclosed retail airline tickets, reduced price-disclosed hotel
booking fees and eliminated hotel change fees. 
We have also added thousands of additional hotels to our domestic and
international hotel services. In addition, we have renewed or entered into new
agreements with several of our major airline and hotel suppliers, which we
believe has improved our access to a better selection of travel alternatives
and pricing.



·Content
and merchandising:As part of our evolution to a “one-stop-shopping”
website, we have added thousands of pages of content to allow customers to
research destinations and hotel properties before booking a reservation.  We offer property descriptions, maps, images,
and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit from the experiences and
opinions of other customers.  In the
United States, we offer “PriceBreakerssm,” which is a presentation of selected travel itineraries
at discounted prices that is updated frequently.  In 2009, we introduced a
priceline.com-branded credit card that allows customers to earn points based on
purchases, including those made on our website. 
We intend to continue to improve our content and merchandising with more
comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality images, and more user
reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of users shopping on our
website.








Table of
Contents



·Cross-sell opportunities: We also
cross-sell different travel components to maximize the revenue we generate from
each customer in the United States.  We
have developed and implemented functionality that allows customers to “add-on”
travel components to their selection, both during the shopping experience and
at time of purchase.  For example,
customers can add a rental car reservation to their air or hotel reservation,
or a hotel reservation to their air reservation.  Customers can also add destination related
services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
shopper may be offered theName Your Own
Price®alternative for greater
savings.  In addition, personalized
cross-sell offers can appear on the priceline.com homepage when a customer
has an upcoming trip.  We intend to
further enhance these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.



We
strive to be the preferred discount distribution channel in the United States
for airlines, hotels and rental car companies. 
OurName Your Own Price®service protects supplier brand and published
pricing and our packages and other merchandising provide access to the brand
neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution costs.



Service Offerings – International



Retail Hotels.We offer a retail,
price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and
Agoda brands.  Wework with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84 countries
offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32 languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which
operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a
merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  Hotels may also participate in Agoda via
consolidator relationships.



Service Offerings – United States



Name Your Own Price®Hotels.  Through ourName
Your Own Price®hotel room reservation
service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially
all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well
as several important real estate investment trusts and independent property
owners participate in ourName Your Own
Price®service. 
Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with
related rules in a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make
similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.



To
make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in
which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to check in and check out, (3) the “class” of service (1, 2, 2½, 3,
3½, 4, 5-star or “resort”), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (5) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to
stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation
that cannot be refunded or changed.  The
target market for ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service is the leisure
travel market.



Retail Hotels.We also operate a price-disclosed hotel
service in the United States that enables our customers toselect the exact
hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to
booking.











Name Your Own Price®Rental Cars.  OurName
Your Own Price®rental car service is currently available in
substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer’s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer’s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.



Retail Rental Cars.We also offer a price-disclosed rental car
serviceon www.priceline.com that enables our customersin the United
Statesto choose between price-disclosed orName
Your Own Price®rental cars. 
Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the “agency”
model,under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, andaccommodates
one-way and off-airport reservations.As with our retail airline
ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a
retail manner do not have the restrictions associated withourName
Your Own Price®service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.



Name Your Own Price®Airline
Tickets.  There are a total of 10
domestic airlines and 20 international airlines participating in ourName Your Own Price®airline ticket service.



OurName Your Own Price®airline ticket service operates in a manner
similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the
origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer’s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:



·fly on any one
of our participating airline partners;



·leave at any
time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of
departure and return;



·purchase only
round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and
return;



·accept at least
one stop or connection;



·receive no
frequent flier miles or upgrades; and



·accept tickets
that cannot be refunded or changed.



If
a customer’s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.



Retail Airline Tickets.We also offerour customers in the United
States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and
with disclosed itineraries.  The airline
sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for
the transaction.  These airline tickets
do not have the restrictions associated with ourName Your
Own Price®service. 
For example, in addition to having fully











disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable
and cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007,
we eliminated booking fees we had previously charged on the sale of published
price retail airline tickets.



With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of ourName Your Own Price®model and the retail model
allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers,
while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows consumersin the United Statesto purchase packages consisting of airfare,
hotel and rental car components. 
Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to
reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline
ticket for the air component of their package. 
Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers
cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.



Destination Services.  We currently offer customersin the United
Statesthe opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event
tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation
reservation, and also as a standalone service.



Cruises.  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc.
(“WTH”), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumersin the United
Statesto search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information
from 20 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center
by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful
cruise bookings.



Travel Insurance.  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that
provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip
interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage,
property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customer in
the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver
insurance.  The travel insurance is
arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc.
and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.
 We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our
customers.



While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.



Marketing and Brand
Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and
recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion
campaigns.  During 2009, our total online
advertising expenses were approximately $365.4 million, a substantial portion
of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing.  We also invested
approximately $36.3 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the
United States.  We intend to continue a
marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers
can save money using our services. 
Underlying our marketing strategy is our belief that our target market
is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy consumers.  We intend to continue to promote the
Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands aggressively throughout 2010.



As
our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our international operations utilize Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our











online
advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those
companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2010.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete may have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has larger gross travel bookings than we do and may have access to
significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.



We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include, but are not limited to:



·Internet travel services
such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia, and
Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service provider that was
acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity and
lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets,
ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz
Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif;



·travel suppliers such as
airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their
own branded websites to which they drive business;



·large online portal and
search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including
Bing Travel) and AOL (including AOL Travel);



·traditional travel
agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;



·online travel search sites
such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com and SideStep.com (each
sometimes referred to as “meta-search” sites) and travel research sites that
have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com;
and



·operators of travel
industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.













In
addition, in March 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed
hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount
because, similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel booking service, the name
of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  At this point, the
number of hotels available through Travelocity’s opaque hotel service is
limited.  However, Travelocity has experience
with offering opaque price-disclosed hotel room reservations in Europe through
its site, lastminute.com, and it is likely that it will use such experience to
grow the number of opaque hotel room reservations it makes available.  If Travelocity is successful in growing its
opaque hotel service, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could
decrease.  In addition, we would have to compete with Travelocity for
access to hotel room supply and there is no guarantee that we would be able to
maintain successfully the access to opaque hotel supply which we currently
have.  If Travelocity’s opaque hotel service is successful, it may try to
offer opaque airline tickets and/or rental cars, each of which would expose us
to similar risks as the opaque hotel service.



Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including
suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand
to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge
additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online
channel other than their own website. 
Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively
through their own websites.  Suppliers
who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and,
in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.



Google City Tours

Bing Travel



Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:



·marketing and promotional campaigns;



·attracting traffic to their websites;



·attracting and retaining key employees;



·securing vendors and supply; and



·website and systems development.











Increased competition could result in reduced
operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.See “Risk Factors — Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance.”



Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by
multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on
scalability, performance and reliability. 
The platforms are largely independent among priceline com, Booking.com
and Agoda. The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools
within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP,
..NET and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle MySQL and Microsoft
SQL-server relational database systems. 
These internal platforms were designed to include open application
protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries
in which we operate.  These include large
global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and
financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as
individual hotels.  Our Internet servers
utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions,
as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our
international operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd. in London,
England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the Netherlands and
NTT in Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure
typical of hosted data centers.



Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are
hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication
links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple
back-up systems in Jersey City.  We also
maintain a second web hosting facility at AT&T in New York City.  Our network operations center monitors both
web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
a continuous power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT&T.



We outsource most of our domestic call center and customer service
functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.



Intellectual Property



We currently hold twenty issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503;
7,203,660; 7,188,176; 7,333,941; 7,386,508; 7,472,074 and over twenty pending
United States and foreign patent applications. 
All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4,
2016 and March 22, 2025.  We file
additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.



While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:



·a
third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us
from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a
license to use those features;



·our
operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third
parties;



·any
patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties;











·the
pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;



·competitors
or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that
are not covered by our patents or patent applications;



·because
of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories;



·new
prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate
an issued patent; or



·legislative
or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and
validity of any of our patent rights.



There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
“business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, there has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
“business method” patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order inIn re Bilski, has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business
method patents inState Street Bank v. Signature Financial.  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.  See “Risk Factors — We face
risks related to our intellectual property.”



We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE®and PRICELINE.COM®in the U.S. as well as
in many foreign countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE®, and 2,481,752; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112 for
PRICELINE.COM®, including all
attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,647,673 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE®; 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE®, 3,357,458 for  PRICELINE EUROPE®and
others. In addition, through our European subsidiary Booking.com BV, we
hold the registered service mark BOOKINGS in the European Union (“EU”)
(Registrations Nos. 3413846 and 3413952); the Netherlands (Benelux
Registrations Nos. 762051 and 762054); and France (French Registration No. 43276223.
Also held by priceline through Booking.com BV are French Registration No. 43276225
for BOOKING; EU Reg. No. 3859618 for ACTIVE HOTELS; and common law service mark rights in
BOOKING.COM in the United States.



We
aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks,
trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis
through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as
confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over one-hundred-seventy-five service mark registrations
worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade
secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services
are or may be made available online, regardless of our continuous efforts to
police and register our marks.  See, “Risk
Factors —- We face risks related to our intellectual property.”



We
currently own hundreds of Internet domain names in various top level domains,
particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain
names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies such as the World
Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark
and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is evolving.  The
Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain
Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the











Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly enhanced
our  ability to deter the infringing incorporation
of trademarks into domain names by third parties and to assert our
registrations against them.  We actively pursue significant infringers as
appropriate, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who misappropriate our
service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names for commercial purposes,
in order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution of their
distinctiveness.  See, “Risk Factors —
We face risks related to our intellectual property.”



Governmental Regulation



The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a “seller of travel.”  In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes”.



We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data, both in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to
legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  Such government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.



All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.



We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights
and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing,
but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we
conduct online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in
that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is
available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do
business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain
states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional
states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See “RiskFactors — Regulatory and legal uncertainties
could harm our business,”and“Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.”



Our
international operations are subject to various foreign regulations and
governing bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our international
operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.



Seasonality



OurName Your Own Price®services are non-refundable in nature, and
accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is
generated.  However, we recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future
quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority
of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the
quarter in which bookings are generated.











Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect
our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal
factors.



Employees



As of January 31, 2010,
we employed approximately 2,010 full-time employees, of which 493 are based in
the United States and 1,517 are based in our international offices. We also
retain independent contractors to support our customer service and system
support functions.



We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by
any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to
be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.



The
priceline.com Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com,
www.priceline.com and www.agoda.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We
make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  These reports and other
information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 
Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may
be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com
website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be
disclosed on that website.











