Item 1.  Business



Priceline.com Incorporated is a leading online travel company that offers its customers hotel and accommodation reservations at over 295,000 properties worldwide (as of February 25, 2013), as well as reservations for other travel services.  We offer our services primarily through our Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com brands.  Booking.com, the world's largest hotel and accommodation reservation website, serves customers around the world with reservations at properties worldwide.  Agoda primarily serves customers in Asia-Pacific with hotel reservations at properties in Asia-Pacific.  Priceline.com primarily serves customers in the United States with reservations for hotels, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises in North America.  Rentalcars.com offers car rental reservations worldwide.  We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands, including Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, collectively as the "Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us."



We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include Booking.com, Agoda.com and rentalcars.com, which are independently managed and operated international brands.  Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel, accommodation and rental car reservations.  During the year ended December 31, 2012, our international business (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 82% of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately 92% of our consolidated operating income.  Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, and that hotel reservations also represent a significant majority of our domestic business, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit.



Our priceline.com brand in the United States offersName Your Own Price®travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services because certain elements of the service are not disclosed to the customer prior to booking), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue.  Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services (including semi-opaque travel services) offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue.   Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues betweenName Your Own Price®and retail travel services.  Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both ourName Your Own Price®and retail travel services.  Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:



•Commissions earned from facilitating reservations of price-disclosed hotels, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;

•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed hotel, rental car, and vacation package reservation services;

•Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from ourName Your Own Price®hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services;










•Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to ourName Your Own Price®hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, and price-disclosed airline ticket and rental car reservation services; and

•Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.



Name Your Own Price

®

hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, as well as through our price-disclosed vacation packages services; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of our

Name Your Own Price

®

hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations and our merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other gross profit is derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.



Priceline.com Incorporated was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.



The Priceline Group Business Model



We own and operate an online global travel service network that efficiently connects customers wishing to make travel reservations with providers of travel services around the world, including over 295,000 hotels and accommodations as of February 25, 2013.  We offer customers hotel reservation services on a worldwide basis primarily under the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands.  In the United States, we also offer reservation services through our priceline.com brand for rental cars, airline tickets, vacations packages, destination services and cruises.  Our priceline.com brand offers these travel services through a price-disclosed "retail" manner, through our proprietary demand-collection system known asName Your Own Price®and through our semi-opaque service known as “Express Deals.”  In May 2010, we acquired TravelJigsaw and in late 2011, we re-branded TravelJigsaw as "rentalcars.com."  Through rentalcars.com, we offer retail price-disclosed rental car reservations around the world.



In November 2012 we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire KAYAK Software Corporation, a leading meta-search service, in a stock and cash transaction.  Under the terms of the agreement, the transaction values KAYAK at $1.8 billion ($1.65 billion net of cash acquired) or $40 per share of KAYAK common stock, with $500 million to be paid in cash, which is expected to be made from cash on hand in the United States, and $1.3 billion to be paid in shares of our common stock and assumed options (subject to a volume-weighted average trading price calculation and a collar on the value of our common stock).  See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2013, pending approval from relevant regulatory authorities and KAYAK shareholders.



International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Reservation Services.  We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel and accommodation reservation service through our international brands, which consist primarily of Booking.com, the world's largest online hotel and accommodation website with operations worldwide, and Agoda.com, an online hotel reservation service with operations primarily in Asia.  As of February 25, 2013, Booking.com works with over 275,000 properties in over 180 countries and territories offering hotel and accommodation reservations on various websites and in 41 languages.



International: Price-Disclosed Rental Car Reservation Services.  We offer a merchant semi-opaque rental car reservation service through rentalcars.com, a Manchester, U.K.-based rental car reservation service, which we acquired in May 2010.  Rentalcars.com offers rental car reservations throughout the world.  Customers can see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the travel service provider.  Certain members of our management own a non-controlling interest in rentalcars.com.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.












United States: OpaqueTravel Services.  We have developed a unique pricing system that allows customers to specify the price they are prepared to pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which participating travel service providers file secure discounted rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer's offer and decide whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the customer.  ThisName Your Own Price®service uses the flexibility of customers to enable travel service providers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess capacity without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We often refer to ourName Your Own Price®travel services as "opaque" because certain elements of the service are not disclosed to the customer prior to booking.  In 2012, we launchedExpress Deals, a merchant semi-opaque, price-disclosed hotel reservation service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to booking but not the identity of the supplier.



United States: Price-Disclosed Travel Services.  In the United States, we offer customers the ability to purchase reservations for price-disclosed hotels, rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  We believe that the combination of our retail price-disclosed models and ourName Your Own Price®model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious consumers.



The Priceline Group Strategy



The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels, including mobile.  We are the leader in the worldwide online hotel and accommodation reservation market based on room nights booked.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.





•

Maintain and Grow Our Position as the Leading Worldwide Online Hotel and Accommodation Reservation Service

.  The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of U.S. consumers.  However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel services.  Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, growth rates within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 82% of our gross bookings and approximately 92% of our consolidated operating income were generated through our international brands - primarily Booking.com.  We expect that our international brands will continue to represent a significant percentage of our gross bookings and consolidated operating income, and that these percentages may continue to increase if international growth rates continue to exceed those within the United States.  We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate.  Because of what we believe to be superior growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel reservations, we intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel demand.



The positioning of our Booking.com and Agoda.com hotel reservation services has given us access to a broader international online hotel reservation market than we have through our priceline.com brand.  We intend to use Booking.com and Agoda.com to further develop our worldwide operations, especially in geographic areas where Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing.  We continue to develop the means to share hotel room reservation supply among our brands, which we believe will allow us to better serve customers across markets.



We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel room reservation supply and customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our travel reservation services internationally and maintain and grow our position as the leading worldwide online hotel and accommodation reservation service.



•Continue to be One of the Top Online Travel Reservation Services in North America for Value-Conscious Leisure Travelers.  OurName Your Own Price®service in the United States allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands and service features in return for prices that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.  In 2012, we launchedExpress Deals, a merchant semi-opaque, price-disclosed hotel reservation service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the room prior to booking but not the identity of the hotel.  We also offer price-disclosed retail services in the United States to our customers to compliment our opaque services.  We believe that by offering a "one-stop-shopping" solution to our customers, we can










simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are prepared to accept the unique restrictions of ourName Your Own Price®orExpress Dealsservices in exchange for receiving significant savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their travel itinerary prior to booking.



•Become a Leading Worldwide Online Rental Car Reservation Service.  In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a U.K.-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car rental services throughout the world, with customer support provided in 40 languages.



Service Offerings - International



Retail Hotels.We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel and accommodation reservation service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and Agoda.com brands.  Booking.com works with over 275,000 properties in over 175 countries and territories offering reservations on various websites and in 41 languages.  Properties participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, and Agoda.com, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranets.



Retail Rental Cars.In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a U.K.-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car rental services in more than 6,000 locations throughout the world, with customer support provided in 40 languages.  Customers using rentalcars.com can book a full range of vehicles online through one of rentalcars.com's branded websites, or they can reserve their cars by phone.  Rentalcars.com primarily offers its services under a semi-opaque merchant model that allows customers to see the price, vehicle type and rental location, but not the identity of the provider until the reservation is made.



Service Offerings - United States



Opaque Hotels.  Through ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant U.S. national hotel chains as well as many independent property owners participate in ourName Your Own Price®service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with related rules accessible through a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount distributors who sell to the public.  However, hotels may make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under other arrangements.



To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to check in and check out, (3) the "class" of service (1, 2, 2½, 3, 3½, 4, 5-star or "resort"), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (5) the customer's valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, customers must agree to stay at any one of our participating hotel partners matching their selected criteria and accept a reservation that cannot be refunded or changed.  If a customer's offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.  The target market for ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service is the leisure travel market.



In 2012, we launchedExpress Deals, a merchant semi-opaque price-disclosed hotel reservation service at priceline.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the hotel.



Retail Hotels.We also operate a retail, price-disclosed hotel reservation service in the United States which enables our customers to select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to booking.  We offer such reservations through a merchant model, as well as through an agency model for hotel room night reservations sourced through the Booking.com extranet.



Opaque Rental Cars.  OurName Your Own Price®rental car service is currently available in substantially all major U.S. airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car companies in the United States participate in our rental car reservation service.  Customers can access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer's offer is accepted, it cannot be refunded or changed, and we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer's credit card and notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental car.  If a customer's










offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.



Retail Rental Cars.We also offer a price-disclosed rental car reservation service through priceline.com and other brands in the United States.  Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the "agency" model, under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and accommodates one-way and off-airport reservations.  Customers can select the rental car brand, car type, pick-up location and price prior to booking.



Opaque Airline Tickets.  OurName Your Own Price®airline ticket reservation service operates in a manner similar to ourName Your Own Price®hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the customer's valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, customers must agree to:

•fly on any one of our participating airline partners;

•leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and return;

•purchase only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and return;

•accept at least one stop or connection;

•receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

•accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

If a customer's offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.  In 2012, we launched aName Your Own Price®one-way ticket option to offer customers increased itinerary flexibility.



Retail Airline Tickets.We also offer our customers in the United States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and with disclosed itineraries.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  Retail airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.



With respect to each of our hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservation services, we believe the combination of ourName Your Own Price®service and the retail price-disclosed service, and in the case of hotel room reservations, our semi-opaqueExpress Dealsservice, allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious consumers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.



Vacation Packages.  Our vacation package service allows customers in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car components.  Customers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  In addition, customers can elect to add a rental car to their package.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although customers cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.



Other Services.We offer priceline.com customers the opportunity to purchase through us destination services (e.g., parking, event tickets, ground transfers), cruises and travel insurance.  We earn a commission on destination services and cruise bookings.  We retain a fee for every insurance package purchased through us.  The travel insurance is arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc. and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.



While we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance the travel experience of our customers.



Marketing and Brand Awareness



Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  In late 2011, we re-branded our international rental car business as rentalcars.com, and have since marketed that brand worldwide through online advertising.  During 2012, our total online advertising expenses were approximately $1.3 billion, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines, price comparison and travel research services and affiliate marketing.  We also invested approximately $35.5 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the United States.  In January 2013, Booking.com launched in the United States its first offline advertising campaign.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to aggressively promote brand awareness, primarily through online means.












We use online search engines, price comparison and travel research services, and affiliate marketing as primary means of generating traffic to our websites.  As a result, our online advertising expense has increased significantly in recent years, a trend we expect to continue.  In addition, our online advertising has grown faster than our gross profit due to (1) brand mix within the Priceline Group, (2) channel mix within our brands and (3) recently, lower returns on investment (“ROIs”) from our online advertising.  Our international brands are growing faster than our priceline.com U.S. brand, and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising.  Furthermore, our brands are generally obtaining an increasing share of traffic through paid online advertising channels.  Finally, our online advertising ROIs have recently been down year-over-year.



Advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and the extent to which we are successful in converting paid traffic to booking customers and then having customers return directly to our websites or mobile apps for future bookings. We recognize a substantial majority of online advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel and rental car reservations when the travel is completed.  As a result, online advertising expense may not be recognized in the same period as the associated gross profit.



Competition



We compete with both online and traditional travel reservation services. The market for the travel reservation services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple and Microsoft, have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do, and they may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us.



We currently or potentially will compete with a variety of companies, including:

•Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Elong, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com, Holiday Auto and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; Gullivers and octopustravel, which are owned by Kuoni; Hotel Reservation Service and hotel.de, which are owned by Hotel Reservation Service; and AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Rakuten, Jalan and Wotif;



•travel service providers such as hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including joint efforts by travel service providers such as Room Key, an online hotel reservation service owned by several major hotel companies;



•large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook, Groupon and Living Social;



•traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;



•online travel search services (generally referred to as "meta-search" services) such as KAYAK (which we agreed to acquire in November 2012), Trivago.com (in which Expedia agreed to acquire a majority ownership interest in December 2012), Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Qunar, Cheapflights.com and HotelsCombined and travel research services that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor and Travelzoo; and



•operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.



Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and we believe intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the United States and internationally.  For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google launched a flight search tool that enables consumers to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes participation by online travel agents ("OTAs") such as us within the search results.  Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows consumers to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the consumer and that Google has at times placed at or near the top of hotel-related search results.  In addition, Microsoft has launchedBing Travel, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them.  "Meta-search" services leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the consumer's specific itinerary across travel service provider (e.g., airlines or










hotels), OTA and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  Furthermore, certain travel service providers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results.  Some meta-search services that offer consumers the ability to make hotel reservations directly through their websites may evolve into more traditional OTAs.  Meta-search services intend to appeal to consumers by showing more detailed travel search results, including specific information for their own itineraries than may be available through OTAs or other websites, which could lead to travel service providers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines executing transactions within their own websites.  If Google (the largest search engine in the world), Bing or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, or otherwise favor supplier websites or other travel service websites over OTAs, including us, or if meta-search or travel research services limit our participation within their search results, it would likely become more difficult and expensive for us to generate traffic to our websites and therefore to maintain or grow our market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



Several major hotel companies, comprising Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group, Marriott, La Quinta and Millennium, launched Room Key, an online hotel reservation service that competes directly with our hotel reservation services.  The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving consumers directly to their brand websites, thus reducing the share received by OTAs.  They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours.  If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer.



There has been a proliferation of new channels through which hotels can offer hotel room reservations.  For example, some hotels offer room reservations through “daily deal” websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  In 2011, Expedia, one of our largest competitors, entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the “Groupon Getaways” brand name. New entrants, such as BackBid, GuestMob and Tingo, as well as Hipmunk and Room 77, have developed new and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on hotel rooms to consumers and that compete directly with us.  If any of these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.





Apple, Inc., one of the most successful companies in the world and producer of, among other things, the iPhone and iPad, recently obtained a patent for "iTravel," a mobile app that would allow a traveler to check in for a travel reservation.  In addition, Apple's most recent iPhone operating system includes "Passbook," a virtual wallet app that holds tickets, boarding passes, coupons and gift cards, and along with iTravel, may be indicative of Apple's intent to enter the travel reservations business in some capacity.  Apple has substantial market share in the smart phone category and controls integration of offerings, including travel services, into its mobile operating system.  Apple also has more experience producing and developing mobile apps and has access to greater resources, than we have.  Apple may use or expand iTravel, Passbook, Siri (Apple's voice recognition "concierge" service) or another mobile app as a means of entering the travel reservations marketplace.  Similarly, Google's Android operating system is the leading smartphone operating system in the world.  As a result, Google could leverage its Android operating system to give its travel services a competitive advantage, either technically










or with prominence on its Google Play app store or within its mobile search results.  To the extent Apple or Google use their mobile operating systems or app distribution channels to favor their own travel service offerings, our business could be harmed.



The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of the effort of many hotel, airline and rental car companies, including those with which we conduct business, to drive online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain airlines have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Providers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.  See "Risk Factors - Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.”



Operations and Technology



Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL-server relational database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as airline ticket and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual hotel service providers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.



The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our worldwide operations are primarily hosted in England, the Netherlands, Hong Kong and two locations in the United States, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support typical of hosted data centers.  Our network operations center is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters and monitors all web hosting facilities.  All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers and multiple back-up systems.  If one hosting facility were inaccessible, for any reason, we would need to divert all traffic to another hosting facility, which may lead to a disruption to our services, resulting in foregone transactions and revenue.



Customer service for our international business is provided primarily through in-house customer call centers.  We outsource most of the call center and customer service functions for our U.S. priceline.com business, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.



Intellectual Property



Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering our services.  We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success.  We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures.  We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in our services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information.



We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the United States and internationally.  We currently hold numerous issued U.S. and international patents and pending U.S. and international patent applications.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. As we continue to expand internationally, we must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. See "Risk Factors-We face risks related to our intellectual property."



Governmental Regulation



The services we provide are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local regulations. For example, our travel services are subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a "seller of travel" in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, our services may be subject to various federal, state, foreign and local taxing










regulations.  See "Risk Factors-Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations" and "Risk Factors - We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities."



We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.



In addition, our strategy involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Asia, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments and tax laws.  Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences, which may have an adverse effect on our business.



Seasonality



A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  However, we generally do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses.  However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.  In addition, our

Name Your Own Price

®

services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated.  However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow faster than our

Name Your Own Price

®



services, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 7,000 employees, of which approximately 1,400 are based in the United States and approximately 5,600 are based in our international offices. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions.



We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  See "Risk Factors-We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed."



The Priceline Group Websites



We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.agoda.com and www.rentalcars.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated Code of Conduct is available through the www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Conduct will be disclosed on that website.














