Item 1. Business



History and Overview



Dentsply Sirona is the world’s largest manufacturer of professional dental products and technologies, with a 130-year history of innovation and service to the dental industry and patients worldwide.  Dentsply Sirona develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive solutions offering including dental and oral health products as well as other consumable medical devices under a strong portfolio of world class brands.  As The Dental Solutions Company, Dentsply Sirona’s products provide innovative, high-quality and effective solutions to advance patient care and deliver better, safer and faster dentistry.  Dentsply Sirona’s worldwide headquarters is located in York, Pennsylvania.  The Company’s shares of common stock are listed in the United States on Nasdaq under the symbol XRAY.



On February 29, 2016 DENTSPLY International Inc. merged with Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. (“Sirona”) in an all-stock transaction and the registrant was named DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc. (the “Merger”).  DENTSPLY International Inc. dates its history to 1899, as a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range of consumable dental products for the professional dental market.  The Company also manufactures and markets other consumable medical device products.  Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. dates its history back to 1882, as a designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of technologically-advanced dental equipment.  Both companies have long traditions of innovation in the dental industry.  The Company introduced the first dental electric drill over 130 years ago, the first dental X-ray unit approximately 100 years ago, the first dental computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing (“CAD/CAM”) system 30 years ago, and numerous other significant innovations including pioneering ultrasonic scaling to increase the speed, effectiveness and comfort of cleaning and revolutionizing both file and apex locater technology to make root canal procedures easier and safer.  Dentsply Sirona continues to make significant investments in research and development (“R&D”), and its track record of innovative and profitable new products continues today.












Dental products and technology and equipment accounted for approximately92%of Dentsply Sirona’s consolidated net sales and 92% of Dentsply Sirona’s consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the year endedDecember 31, 2017.  The remaining consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, are primarily related to consumable medical device products and the materials sold to the investment casting industry.  The presentation of net sales, excluding precious metal content, is considered a measure not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), and is therefore considered a non-US GAAP measure.  This non-US GAAP measure is discussed further in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and a reconciliation of net sales to net sales, excluding precious metal content, is provided there.



Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years’ data in order to conform to current year presentation.  During the quarter ended September 30, 2017, the Company realigned reporting responsibilities for multiple businesses, as a result of a retirement of one of the Company’s then Chief Operating Officers, into three operating segments.  Furthermore, as a result of changes in the senior management level during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company realigned reporting responsibilities into two operating segments.  The segment information reflects the revised fourth quarter organizational structure for all periods shown.



The Company conducts its business in the United States of America (“U.S.”), as well as in over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries. Dentsply Sirona has a long-established presence in the European market, particularly in Germany, Sweden, France, the United Kingdom (“UK”), Switzerland and Italy, as well as in Canada.  The Company also has a significant market presence in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”), Central and South America, the Middle-East region and the Pacific Rim.



Geographic Information



For the years ended December 31,2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company’s net sales to customers outside the U.S., including export sales, accounted for approximately 65% of consolidated net sales.  Reference is made to further information provided regarding the Company’s U.S. and foreign sales by shipment origin set forth in Note5, Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.



Segment Information



Information regarding the Company’s operating segments for the years endedDecember 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015can be found in Note5, Segment and Geographic Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.



Principal Products



The worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone.  Dentsply Sirona’s principal dental product categories are dental consumable products, dental laboratory products, dental specialty products and dental equipment.  Additionally, the Company’s consumable medical device products provide for urological and surgical applications. These products are produced by the Company in the U.S. and internationally and are distributed throughout the world under some of the most well-established brand names and trademarks in these industries, including but not limited to: ANKYLOS, AQUASIL ULTRA, ARTICADENT, ASTRA TECH, ATLANTIS, CALIBRA, CAULK, CAVITRON, CELTRA, CERAMCO, CERCON, CEREC, CEREC MCX, CITANEST, DAC, DELTON, DENTSPLY, DETREY, DYRACT, ESTHET.X, GALILEOS, INLAB, IN-OVATION, INTEGO, LOFRIC, MAILLEFER, MIDWEST, MTM, NUPRO, OMNICAM, ORAQIX, ORIGO, ORTHOPHOS, OSSEOSPEED, PALODENT PLUS, PEPGEN P-15, PORTRAIT, PRIME & BOND, PROFILE, PROGLIDER, PROTAPER, RECIPROC, RINN, SANI-TIP, SCHICK, SENTALLOY, SINIUS, SIROLASER, SIRONA, SLIMLINE, STYLUS, SULTAN, SUREFIL, T1, T2, T3, T4, TENEO, THERMAFIL, TRIODENT, TRUBYTE, VIPI, WAVEONE, WELLSPECT, XENO, XIVE, XYLOCAINE and ZHERMACK.



Dental Consumable Products



Dental consumable products consist of value added dental supplies and small equipment used in dental offices for the treatment of patients.  It also includes specialized treatment products used within the dental office and laboratory settings including products used in the preparation of dental appliances by dental laboratories.  Net sales of dental consumable products accounted for approximately 44%, 44% and 57% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.












Dentsply Sirona’s dental supplies include endodontic (root canal) instruments and materials, dental anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, impression materials, restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride.  Small equipment products include dental handpieces, intraoral curing light systems, dental diagnostic systems and ultrasonic scalers and polishers.



The Company’s products used in dental laboratories include dental prosthetics, including artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics and crown and bridge materials.  Dental laboratory equipment products include amalgamators, mixing machines and porcelain furnaces.



Dental Technology and Equipment Products



Dental technology products consist of basic and high-tech dental equipment such as treatment centers, imaging equipment and computer aided design and machining CAD/CAM systems equipment for dental practitioners and laboratories.  The product category also includes high-tech state-of-art dental implants and related scanning equipment and treatment software, orthodontic appliances for dental practitioners and specialist and dental laboratories.  The Company offers the broadest line of products to fully outfit a dental practitioner’s office.  Net sales of dental technology & equipment products accounted for approximately 48%, 48% and 32% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.



Treatment centers comprise a broad range of products from basic dentist chairs to sophisticated chair-based units with integrated diagnostic, hygiene and ergonomic functionalities, as well as specialist centers used in preventive treatment and for training purposes.  Imaging systems consist of a broad range of diagnostic imaging systems for 2D or 3D, panoramic, and intra-oral applications.  Dental CAD/CAM Systems are products designed for dental offices and laboratories used for dental restorations, which includes several types of restorations, such as inlays, onlays, veneers, crowns, bridges, copings and bridge frameworks made from ceramic, metal or composite blocks.  This product line also includes high-tech CAD/CAM techniques of chairside economical restoration of aesthetic ceramic dentistry, or CEREC, equipment.  This equipment allows for in-office application that enables dentists to produce high quality restorations from ceramic material and insert them into the patient’s mouth during a single appointment. CEREC has a number of advantages compared to the traditional out-of-mouth pre-shaped restoration method, as CEREC does not require a physical model, restorations can be created in the dentist’s office and the procedure can be completed in a single visit.  The Company estimates that atDecember 31, 2017the market penetration for in-office CAD/CAM systems in the U.S. and Germany was approximately 17% to 18%.



Healthcare Consumable Products



Healthcare consumable products consist mainly of urology catheters, certain surgical products, medical drills and other non-medical products.  Net sales of healthcare consumable products accounted for approximately 8%, 8% and 11% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.



Markets, Sales and Distribution



The Company believes that the market for its products will grow over the long-term based on the following factors:



•increasing worldwide population.



•aging population in developed countries with access to greater amounts of discretionary income will require more dental care.



•natural teeth are being retained longer - Individuals with natural teeth are much more likely to visit a dentist in a given year than those without any natural teeth remaining.



•earlier preventive care and a growing demand for aesthetic dentistry - dentistry has evolved from a profession primarily dealing with pain, infections and tooth decay to one with increased emphasis on preventive care and cosmetic dentistry.



•increasing demands for patient comfort and ease of product use and handling.



•increasing demand for more efficiency and better workflow in the dental office, including digital and integrated solutions.












•per capita and discretionary incomes are increasing in emerging markets.  As personal incomes continue to rise in emerging economies, healthcare, including dental services, is a growing priority.  Many surveys indicate the middle class population will expand significantly within these emerging markets.



•the Company’s business is less susceptible than many other industries to general downturns in the economies in which it operates.  Many of the products the Company offers relate to dental procedures and health conditions that are considered necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment.  Dental specialty products, dental equipment and products that support discretionary dental procedures are the most susceptible to changes in economic conditions.



Dentsply Sirona employs approximately 5,000 highly trained, product-specific sales and technical staff to provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the particular sales and technical support requirements of its distributors, dealers and the end-users.



Dental Sales and Distribution



Dentsply Sirona distributes approximately half of its dental consumable and technology and equipment products through third-party distributors.  Certain highly technical products such as dental technology equipment, dental ceramics, crown and bridge porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic appliances, dental implants are often sold directly to the dental laboratory or dental professionals in some markets.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2017,onecustomer, Henry Schein, Inc, accounted for approximately15%of consolidated net sales.  AtDecember 31, 2017,twocustomers, Henry Schein, Inc. and Patterson Companies, Inc., accounted for approximately14%and15%, respectively, of the consolidated accounts receivable balance.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2016,twocustomers, Henry Schein, Inc., and Patterson Companies, Inc.,  each accounted for approximately12%of consolidated net sales.  AtDecember 31, 2016,onecustomer, Patterson Companies, Inc., accounted for17%of the consolidated accounts receivable balance.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2015, the Company hadonecustomer, Henry Schein, Inc., that accounted for approximately11%of consolidated net sales.  AtDecember 31, 2015, there were no customers that accounted for ten percent or more of the consolidated accounts receivable balance.





Although many of its dental sales are made to distributors, dealers and importers, Dentsply Sirona focuses much of its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools which are the end-users of its products.  As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach, the Company conducts extensive distributor, dealer and end-user marketing programs.  Additionally, the Company trains laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants and dentists in the proper use of its products and introduces them to the latest technological developments at its educational courses conducted throughout the world.  The Company also maintains ongoing consulting and educational relationships with various dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in the dental field.



Medical Sales and Distribution



The Company’s urology products are sold directly in approximately 15 countries throughout Europe and North America, and through distributors in approximately 20 additional markets.  The Company’s largest markets include the UK, Germany and France.  Key customers include urologists, urology nurses, general practitioners and direct-to-patients.












Historical reimbursement levels within Europe have been higher for intermittent catheters which explain a greater penetration of single-use catheter products in that market.  In the United States, which the Company considers an important growth market, the reimbursement environment has improved since 2008 as the infection control cost benefits of disposable catheters gain acceptance among payers.



The Company’s surgery products are sold directly in approximately 13 countries and through distributors in approximately 20 additional markets.  The Company’s largest markets include Australia, Norway and the UK.  Key customers include surgeons, hospital nurses, physiotherapists, hospital purchasing departments and medical supply distributors.



The Company also maintains ongoing consulting and educational relationships with various medical associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in this field.



Product Development



Innovation and successful product development are critical to keeping market leadership position in key product categories and growing market share in other products categories while strengthening the Company’s prominence in the dental and medical markets that it serves.  While many of Dentsply Sirona’s existing products undergo brand extensions, the Company also continues to focus efforts on successfully launching innovative products that represent fundamental change.



New advances in technology are also anticipated to have a significant influence on future products in dentistry and in select areas of healthcare.  As a result, the Company pursues research and development initiatives to support this technological development, including collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools.  Through its own internal research centers as well as through its collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools, the Company directly invested $151.7 million, $128.5 millionand $74.9 millionfor the years ended December 31,2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, in connection with the development of new products, improvement of existing products and advances in technology.  The global investment for R&D is impacted by foreign currency translation, which creates reported expense variations.  The continued development of these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company’s strategic goal as a leader in defining the future of dentistry and in select areas in health care.



In addition to the direct investment in product development and improvement, the Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, by entering into licensing agreements with third parties, and by purchasing technologies developed by third parties.



Acquisition Activities



Dentsply Sirona believes that the dental consumable and technology products industries continue to experience consolidation with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution, although they remain fragmented thereby creating a number of acquisition opportunities.  Dentsply Sirona also seeks to expand its position in healthcare consumable products through acquisitions.



The Company views acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy.  These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the Company’s core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business, including new technologies, additional products, organizational strength and geographic breadth.



Operating and Technical Expertise



Dentsply Sirona believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success.  The manufacturing processes of the Company’s products require substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company’s products.  The Company endeavors to automate its global manufacturing operations in order to improve quality and customer service and lower costs.



Financing



Information about Dentsply Sirona’s working capital, liquidity and capital resources is provided in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K.












Competition



The Company conducts its operations, both domestic and foreign, under highly competitive market conditions.  Competition in the dental and healthcare consumable products and dental technology product industries is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease of use, as well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by clinicians, technicians and patients.  Dentsply Sirona believes that its principal strengths include its well-established brand names, its reputation for high quality and innovative products, its leadership in product development and manufacturing, its global sales force, the breadth of its product line and distribution network, its commitment to customer satisfaction and support of the Company’s products by dental and medical professionals.



The size and number of the Company’s competitors vary by product line and from region to region.  There are many companies that produce some, but no company produces all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.



Regulation



The development, manufacture, sale and distribution of the Company’s products are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation both within and outside the United States.  The following sections describe certain, but not all, of the significant regulations that apply to the Company.  For a description of the risks related to the regulations that the Company is subject to, please refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.



Certain of the Company’s products are classified as medical devices and are subject to restrictions under domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders, including, but not limited to, the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”), Council Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices (“MDD”) (1993) in the European Union (and implementing and local measures adopted thereunder) and similar international laws and regulations. The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).  Certain medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries in which they are produced or sold.



Dental and medical devices of the types sold by Dentsply Sirona are generally classified by the FDA into a category that renders them subject to the same controls that apply to all medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding, notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices.  In the European Union, Dentsply Sirona’s products are subject to the medical devices laws of the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European Commission.  Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations.  Dentsply Sirona products in Europe bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to European regulations.




















The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations that regulate its business.There are, however, significant uncertainties involving the application of various legal requirements, the violation of which could result in, among other things, sanctions. See “Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors” for additional detail.



Sources and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished Goods



The Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by the Company.  Most of the raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous sources.  No single supplier accounts for more than 10% of Dentsply Sirona’s supply requirements.












Intellectual Property



Products manufactured by Dentsply Sirona are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade names.  Dentsply Sirona also owns and maintains more than 4,000 patents throughout the world and is licensed under a number of patents owned by others.



Dentsply Sirona’s policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark registrations both in the U.S. and in significant international markets.  The Company monitors trademark use worldwide and promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the Company.  Dentsply Sirona believes its patents and trademark properties are important and contribute to the Company’s marketing position but it does not consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.  Additional information regarding certain risks related to our intellectual property is included in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.



Employees



AtDecember 31, 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 16,100 employees.  Of these employees, approximately 4,100 were employed in the United States and 12,000 in countries outside of the United States.  Less than 5% of employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Some employees outside of the United States are covered by collective bargaining, union contract, worker councils, or other similar type programs.  The Company believes that it generally has a positive relationship with its employees.



Environmental Matters



Dentsply Sirona believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.  Maintaining this level of compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or on its business.



Other Factors Affecting the Business



Approximately two-thirds of the Company’s sales are located in regions outside the U.S., and the Company’s consolidated net sales can be impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity as a number of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution operations are located outside of the U.S.



The Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net sales and net income.  The Company typically implements most of its price changes in the beginning of the first or fourth quarter.  Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs as well as the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period.  Sales for the industry and the Company are generally strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and weaker in the first and third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.



The Company tries to maintain short lead times within its manufacturing, as such, the backlog on products is generally not material to the financial statements.



Securities Exchange Act Reports



The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).  The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at the following address:



The Securities and Exchange Commission

100 F Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549



The public may obtain information on the operation of this Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.












Dentsply Sirona also makes available free of charge through its website at www.dentsplysirona.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC.  Information on on the Company’s website does not constitute part of this document.



Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks



Information the Company has included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and information which may be contained in other filings with the SEC as well as press releases or other public statements, contains or may contain forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about the Company’s plans, objectives, expectations (financial or otherwise) or intentions.



The Company’s forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.  Actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested in any forward-looking statements.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  Any number of factors could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the risks associated with the following:



•the Company’s ability to remain profitable in a very competitive marketplace, which depends upon the Company’s ability to differentiate its products and services from those of competitors



•the Company’s failure to anticipate and appropriately adapt to changes or trends within the rapidly changing dental industry



•the effect of changes in the Company’s management and personnel



•the Company’s ability to control costs



•changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, or the enactment of new laws, rules or regulations, which apply to the Company’s business practices (past, present or future) or require the Company to spend significant resources for compliance



•the Company’s failure to execute on, or other issues arising under, certain key client contracts



•a significant failure or disruption in service within the Company’s operations or the operations of key distributors



•the Company’s failure to successfully integrate the business operations or achieve the anticipated benefits from any acquired businesses



•results in pending and future litigation, investigations or other proceedings which could subject the Company to significant monetary damages or penalties and/or require us to change our business practices, or the costs incurred in connection with such proceedings



•the Company’s failure to attract and retain talented employees, or to manage succession and retention for its Chief Executive Officer or other key executives



•the impact of the Company’s debt service obligations on the availability of funds for other business purposes, the terms of and required compliance with covenants relating to the Company’s indebtedness and its access to the credit markets in general



•general economic conditions



•other risks described from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC

•










You should carefully consider these and other relevant factors, including those risk factors in Part I, Item 1A, (“Risk Factors”) in this Form 10-K and any other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report, and information which may be contained in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, when reviewing any forward-looking statement.  The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Investors should understand it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors or risks.  As such, you should not consider either foregoing lists, or the risks identified in the Company’s SEC filings, to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.
















