Item
1. Business



Forward-Looking
Statements



The
nature and geographic scope of DENTSPLY International Inc.’s (“DENTSPLY” or the
“Company”) business subjects it to changing economic, competitive, regulatory
and technological risks and uncertainties.  In accordance with the
“Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995, the Company provides the following cautionary remarks regarding important
factors, which, among others, could cause future results to differ materially
from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or
implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by the Company are subject
to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors that may cause the Company’s actual results, performance and
achievements, or industry results to be materially different from any future
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. These statements are identified by the use of such
terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,”
“forecast,” “project,” “anticipate” or words of similar expression.



Investors
are cautioned that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties
which may materially affect the Company's business and prospects, and should be
read in conjunction with the risk factors and uncertainties discussed within
Item 1A, Part I of this Form 10-K. Investors are further cautioned that the risk
factors in Item 1A, Part I of this Form 10-K may not be exhaustive and that many
of these factors are beyond the Company’s ability to control or predict.
Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a
prediction of actual results. The Company undertakes no duty and has no
obligation to update forward-looking statements.



History
and Overview



DENTSPLY,
a Delaware corporation which dates its history to 1899, believes it is the
world's largest designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range
of professional dental products, with a primary focus on dental consumable
products, dental laboratory products and dental specialty
products.   The Company's worldwide headquarters and executive
offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.



Consolidated
net sales, excluding precious metal content, of the Company's dental products
accounted for approximately 97% of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales, excluding
precious metal content, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The remaining 3%
of consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, are related to
materials sold to the investment casting industry and various medical products.
The presentation of net sales, excluding precious metal content, is considered a
measure not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), and is therefore
considered a non-US GAAP measure. This non-US GAAP measure is discussed further
in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and a reconciliation of net sales to net sales, excluding precious
metal content, is provided.



Through
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company conducted its business through
four operating segments, all of which were primarily engaged in the design,
manufacture and distribution of dental products in three principal categories:
1) dental consumable products, 2) dental laboratory products and 3) dental
specialty products.



In
addition to the United States (“U.S.”), the Company conducts its business in
over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries.
DENTSPLY has a long-established presence in Canada and in the European market,
particularly in Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. The
Company also has a significant market presence in Central and South America,
South Africa and the Pacific Rim. DENTSPLY has also established marketing
activities in Moscow, Russia to serve the countries of the Commonwealth of
Independent States (“CIS”).



For 2010,
2009 and 2008, the Company's net sales, excluding precious metal content, to
customers outside the U.S., including export sales, accounted for approximately
63%, 62% and 62%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, excluding precious
metal content. Reference is made to the information about the Company's U.S. and
foreign sales by shipment origin set forth in Note 4, Segment and Geographic
Information, to the consolidated financial statements in this Form
10-K.



- 2
- -



Principal
Products



The
worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and
prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone.
DENTSPLY's principal dental product categories are dental consumable products,
dental laboratory products and dental specialty products. These products are
produced by the Company in the U.S. and internationally and are distributed
throughout the world under some of the most well-established brand names and
trademarks in the industry, including ANKYLOS, AQUASIL, AQUASIL
ULTRA,  CALIBRA, CAULK, CAVITRON, CERAMCO, CERCON, CITANEST, DELTON,
DENTSPLY, DETREY, DYRACT, ECLIPSE, ELEPHANT, ESTHET.X, FRIADENT, FRIALIT, GENIE,
GOLDEN GATE, IN-OVATION, INTERACTIVE MYSTIQUE, MAILLEFER, MIDWEST, NUPRO,
ORAQIX, PEPGEN P-15, POLOCAINE, PORTRAIT,  PRIME & BOND, PROFILE,
PROTAPER, RINN, SANI-TIP, SHADEPILOT, STYLUS, SULTAN, SUREFIL, THERMAFIL,
TRUBYTE, XENO, XIVE, XYLOCAINE and ZHERMACK .



Dental Consumable
Products



Dental
consumable products consist of dental sundries and small equipment used in
dental offices for the treatment of patients. Net sales of dental consumable
products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 35%, 35%
and 34% of the Company’s consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal
content, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.



DENTSPLY’s
dental sundry products in the dental consumable products category include dental
anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, impression materials,
restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride. The Company
manufactures thousands of different dental sundry consumable products marketed
under more than one hundred brand names.



Small
equipment products in the dental consumable products category consist of various
durable goods used in dental offices for the treatment of patients. DENTSPLY’s
small equipment products include high and low speed handpieces, intraoral curing
light systems, dental diagnostic systems and ultrasonic scalers and
polishers.



Dental Laboratory
Products



Dental
laboratory products are used in the preparation of dental appliances by dental
laboratories. Net sales of dental laboratory products, excluding precious metal
content, accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



DENTSPLY’s
products in the dental laboratory products category include dental prosthetics,
including artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics and
crown and bridge materials. Equipment in this category includes computer aided
machining (CAM) ceramic systems and porcelain furnaces.



Dental Specialty
Products



Dental
specialty products are specialized treatment products used within the dental
office and laboratory settings. Net sales of dental specialty products,
excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 46%, 45% and 45%
of the Company’s consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. DENTSPLY’s
products in this category include endodontic (root canal) instruments and
materials, implants and related products, bone grafting materials, 3D digital
implantology and orthodontic appliances and accessories.



Markets,
Sales and Distribution



DENTSPLY
distributes approximately 55% of its dental products through domestic and
foreign distributors, dealers and importers.  However, certain highly
technical products such as precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, crown
and bridge porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic
appliances, implants, and bone substitute and grafting materials are sold
directly to the dental laboratory or dental professionals in some
markets.  During 2010, 2009 and 2008, one customer, Henry Schein
Incorporated, a dental distributor, accounted for 11% of DENTSPLY’s consolidated
net sales.  No other single customer represented ten percent or more
of DENTSPLY’s consolidated net sales during 2010, 2009 or 2008.



Reference
is made to the information about the Company's foreign and domestic operations
and export sales set forth in Note 4, Segment and Geographic Information, to the
consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.



- 3
- -



Although
many of its sales are made to distributors, dealers and importers, DENTSPLY
focuses its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists, dental
assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools who are the end-users of its
products.  As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach,
DENTSPLY employs approximately 2,800 highly trained, product-specific sales and
technical staff to provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the
particular sales and technical support requirements of the distributors, dealers
and the end-users.  The Company conducts extensive distributor, dealer
and end-user marketing programs.  Additionally, the Company trains
laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants and dentists in the
proper use of its products and introduces them to the latest technological
developments at its educational courses located throughout the
world.  The Company also maintains ongoing relationships with various
dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in the dental
field, although there is no assurance that these influential dental
professionals will continue to support the Company’s products.



DENTSPLY
believes that demand in a given geographic market for dental procedures and
products vary according to the stage of social, economic and technical
development of the particular market.  Geographic markets for
DENTSPLY's dental products can be categorized into the following two stages of
development:



The U.S.,
Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and certain other countries are highly
developed markets that demand the most advanced dental procedures and products
and have the highest level of expenditures for dental care.  In these
markets, dental care is increasingly focused upon preventive care and
specialized dentistry.  In addition to basic procedures, such as
excavation of teeth and filling of cavities, tooth extraction and denture
replacement, dental professionals perform an increasing volume of preventive and
cosmetic procedures.  These markets require varied and complex dental
products, utilize sophisticated diagnostic and imaging equipment and demand high
levels of attention to protect against infection and patient
cross-contamination.



In
certain countries in Central America, South America, Eastern Europe, Pacific
Rim, Middle East and Africa, most dental care is often limited to excavation of
teeth and filling of cavities and other restorative techniques, reflecting more
modest per capita expenditures for dental care.  These markets demand
diverse products, such as high and low speed handpieces, restorative compounds,
finishing devices, custom restorative devices, basic surgical instruments,
bridgework and artificial teeth for dentures. However, there is also a portion
of the population in these markets that receive excellent dental care similar to
that received in developed countries and expect to receive the best dental care
available.



The
Company offers products and equipment for use in markets at both of these stages
of development.  The Company believes that demand for more technically
advanced products will increase as each of these markets develop.  The
Company also believes that its recognized brand names, high quality and
innovative products, technical support services and strong international
distribution capabilities position it well to take advantage of any
opportunities for growth in all of the markets that it serves.



The
Company believes that the market for its products will grow over the long-term
based on the following factors:



•Increasing worldwide
      population.



•Growth of the population 65 or
      older – The percentage of the U.S., European, Japanese and other regions
      population over age 65 is expected to nearly double by the year
      2030.  In addition to having significant needs for dental care,
      the elderly are well positioned to pay for the required procedures since
      they control sizable amounts of discretionary
    income.



•Natural teeth are being retained
      longer – Individuals with natural teeth are much more likely to visit a
      dentist in a given year than those without any natural teeth
      remaining.



•The changing dental practice in
      North America and Western Europe – Dentistry in North America and Western
      Europe has been transformed from a profession primarily dealing with pain,
      infections and tooth decay to one with increased emphasis on preventive
      care and cosmetic dentistry.



•Per capita and discretionary
      incomes are increasing in emerging nations – As personal incomes continue
      to rise in the emerging nations of the Pacific Rim, CIS and Latin America,
      healthcare, including dental services, are a growing
      priority.



•The Company’s business is less
      susceptible than other industries to general downturns in the economies in
      which it operates.  Many of the products the Company offers
      relate to dental procedures that are considered necessary by patients
      regardless of the economic environment.  Dental specialty
      products and products that support discretionary dental procedures are the
      most susceptible to recessionary
  conditions.



- 4
- -



Product
Development



Technological
innovation and successful product development are critical to strengthening the
Company’s prominent position in worldwide dental markets, maintaining its
leadership positions in product categories where it has a high market share and
increasing market share in product categories where gains are
possible.  While many of DENTSPLY’s existing products undergo
evolutionary improvements, the Company also continues to focus efforts on
successfully launching innovative products that represent fundamental
change.



New
advances in technology are also anticipated to have a significant influence on
future products in dentistry.  As a result, the Company pursues research
and development initiatives to support this technological development, including
collaborations with external research institutions and dental schools. 
Through its own internal research centers as well as through its collaborations
with external research institutions and dental schools, the Company directly
invested $49.4 million, $50.3 million and $48.5 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, in connection with the development of new products, improvement of
existing products and advances in technology.  The continued development of
these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company's strategic goal as a
leader in defining the future of dentistry.  The year-over-year comparisons
for 2010 versus 2009 and 2009 versus 2008 were both impacted by foreign currency
translation which decreased the reported expense variations.



In
addition to the direct investment in product development and improvement, the
Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, by entering into
licensing agreements and by purchasing technologies developed by third
parties.



Acquisition
Activities



DENTSPLY
believes that the dental products industry continues to experience consolidation
with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution, although it
continues to be fragmented creating a number of acquisition
opportunities.  In 2010, the Company purchased an initial ownership
interest of 16% of the outstanding shares in DIO Corporation (“DIO”), a Korean
manufacturer of dental implants and various other dental devices and
materials.  Additionally, in 2010, the Company purchased several small
distributors of dental specialty products and a small dental equipment
manufacturer.  These businesses are located in Europe and in
Asia.



The
Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth
strategy.  These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the
Company's core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business, including
new technologies, additional products, and geographic breadth.



Operating
and Technical Expertise



DENTSPLY
believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its
success.  The manufacturing process of the Company's products requires
substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials
technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company's
products.  The Company continues to automate its global manufacturing
operations in order to lower costs.



Financing



DENTSPLY’s
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by $89.7 million
during the year ended December 31, 2010 to $540.1 million.  DENTSPLY's
total long-term debt, including the current portion, at December 31, 2010 and
2009 was $606.5 million and $453.7 million, respectively, and the ratios of
long-term debt, including the current portion, to total capitalization were
24.1% and 16.9%.  DENTSPLY defines total capitalization as the sum of
total long-term debt, including the current portion, plus total equity. The
Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, increased by a net of
$152.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. This net change included
a net increase in borrowings of $126.5 million during the year ended 2010, plus
an increase of $26.3 million due to exchange rate fluctuations on debt
denominated in foreign currencies.  The Company may incur additional
debt in the future, including, but not limited to, the funding of additional
acquisitions and capital expenditures.



Additional
information about DENTSPLY's working capital, liquidity and capital resources is
provided in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in this Form 10-K.



Competition



The
Company conducts its operations, both domestic and foreign, under highly
competitive market conditions.  Competition in the dental products
industry is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease
of use, as well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by
professionals and technicians.  DENTSPLY believes that its principal
strengths include its well-established brand names, its reputation for high
quality and innovative products, its leadership in product development and
manufacturing, its commitment to customer satisfaction and support of the
Company’s products by dental professionals.



- 5
- -



The size
and number of the Company's competitors vary by product line and from region to
region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of
the same types of products as those produced by the Company.



Regulation



The
Company's products are subject to regulation by, among other governmental
entities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”).  In
general, if a dental “device” is subject to FDA regulation, compliance with the
FDA's requirements constitutes compliance with corresponding state
regulations.  In order to ensure that dental products distributed for
human use in the U.S. are safe and effective, the FDA regulates the
introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing and
distribution of, and record-keeping for, such products.  The
introduction and sale of dental products of the types produced by the Company
are also subject to government regulation in the various foreign countries in
which they are produced or sold.  DENTSPLY believes that it is in
substantial compliance with the FDA and foreign regulatory requirements that are
applicable to its products and manufacturing operations.



Dental
devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are generally classified by the FDA into a
category that renders them subject only to general controls that apply to all
medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding,
notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices.  In the
European Union, DENTSPLY's products are subject to the medical devices laws of
the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European
Commission.  Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products
in a similar way to the FDA regulations.  DENTSPLY products in Europe
bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to the European
regulations.





In
Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in
amalgam filling materials have been the subject of public
discussion.  As a consequence, in 1994 the German health authorities
required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use for
amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for
children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing
age.  Additionally, some groups have asserted that the use of dental
amalgam should be prohibited because of concerns about environmental impact from
the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam, which has resulted in the sale
of mercury containing products being banned in Sweden and severely curtailed in
Norway.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental
filling materials that do not contain mercury.



Sources
and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished Goods



The
Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by the
Company.  All of the raw materials used by the Company in the
manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are
typically available from numerous sources.  No single supplier
accounts for a significant percentage of DENTSPLY's raw material
requirements.  In addition to those products both manufactured and
sold by the Company, some finished goods products sold by the Company are
purchased from third party suppliers.  Of these finished goods
products purchased from third party suppliers, a significant portion of the
Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic products and dental
cutting instruments are purchased from a limited number of
suppliers.



- 6
- -



Intellectual
Property



Products
manufactured by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade
names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains more than 2,000 patents
throughout the world and is licensed under a small number of patents owned by
others.



DENTSPLY's
policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark
registrations in the U.S. and in significant international markets for its
products.  The Company carefully monitors trademark use worldwide and
promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed
to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for
the Company.  DENTSPLY believes its patents and trademark properties
are important and contribute to the Company's marketing position but it does not
consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual
patent or trademark.



Employees



As of
December 31, 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,700
employees.  A small percentage of the Company's U. S. employees are
represented by labor unions.  A facility in Des Plaines, Illinois is
represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
AFL-CIO, under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on May 31,
2012.  Additionally, the Company’s Ransom & Randolph facility in
Maumee, Ohio is represented by Local No. 12 of the International Union, United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America under a
collective bargaining agreement that expires on January 31, 2012.  In
Germany, approximately 45% of DeguDent employees, approximately 30% of Friadent
employees, approximately 23% of VDW employees and approximately 30% of DeTrey
employees are represented by labor unions.  The Company provides
pension and postretirement benefits to many of its employees (see Note 13,
Benefits Plans, to the consolidated financial statements).  The
Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.



Environmental
Matters



DENTSPLY
believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable
environmental laws and regulations.  Maintaining this level of
compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the
Company's capital expenditures or on its business.



Other
Factors Affecting the Business



The
Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net
sales and net income.  The Company typically implements most of its
price changes early in the fourth quarter or beginning of the
year.  Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs as well
as the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of
strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given
period.  Sales for the industry and the Company are generally
strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and weaker in the first and
third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to
the impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly throughout
Europe.



Securities
and Exchange Act Reports



DENTSPLY
makes available free of charge through its website at www.DENTSPLY.com its
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the
SEC.



The
public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the U. S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“ SEC”) at its Public Reference Room at the
following address:



The
Securities and Exchange Commission

100 F
Street, NE

Washington,
D.C. 20549



The
public may obtain information on the operation of this Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, since the Company is
an electronic filer, the public may access reports, the proxy and information
statements and other information filed or furnished by the Company at the
Internet site maintained by the SEC (http://www.sec.gov).



- 7
- -



