Item 1. Business



History and Overview



DENTSPLY, a Delaware corporation which dates its history to 1899, believes it is the world's largest designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range of consumable dental products for the professional dental market.  The  Company also manufactures and markets other consumable medical device products.  The Company's principal product categories are dental consumable products, dental laboratory products, dental specialty products and consumable medical device products.  The Company's worldwide headquarters and executive offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.



Consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, of the Company's dental products accounted for approximately 88% of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the year ended December 31, 2012. The remaining consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, is related to consumable medical device products and materials sold to the investment casting industry. The presentation of net sales, excluding precious metal content, is considered a measure not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), and is therefore considered a non-US GAAP measure. This non-US GAAP measure is discussed further in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and a reconciliation of net sales to net sales, excluding precious metal content, is provided.



Throughout 2012, the Company conducted its business through four operating segments.  During the first quarter of 2012,  the Company realigned reporting responsibilities for multiple locations as a result of changes to the management structure.   All of the Company's segments are primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and distribution of dental and medical products in four principal product categories: 1) dental consumable products 2) dental laboratory products 3) dental specialty products and 4) consumable medical device products.



The Company conducts its business in the  United States of America (“U.S.”), as well as in over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries. DENTSPLY has a long-established presence in the European market, particularly in Germany, Sweden, Switzerland,  France, Italy and the United Kingdom as well as in Canada . The Company also has a significant market presence in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States ("CIS"), Central and South America and the Pacific Rim.



Geographic Information



For 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company's net sales, excluding precious metal content, to customers outside the U.S., including export sales, accounted for approximately 67%, 66% and 63%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content. Reference is made to the information about the Company's U.S. and foreign sales by shipment origin set forth in Note 4, Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.


















Segment Information



Information regarding the Company's operating segments for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 can be found in Note 4, Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.



Principal Products



The worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone.   DENTSPLY's principal dental product categories are dental consumable products, dental laboratory products and dental specialty products.  Additionally, the Company's consumable medical device products provide for urological and surgical applications. These products are produced by the Company in the U.S. and internationally and are distributed throughout the world under some of the most well-established brand names and trademarks in the industry, including ANKYLOS, AQUASIL, AQUASIL ULTRA, ASTRA TECH, ATLANTIS, BELLOVAC ABT, CALIBRA, CAULK, CAVITRON, CERAMCO, CERCON, CITANEST, DELTON, DENTSPLY, DETREY, DYRACT, ECLIPSE, ELEPHANT, ESTHET.X, FRIADENT, FRIALIT, GENIE, GOLDEN GATE, IN-OVATION, INTERACTIVE MYSTIQUE, LOFRIC, MAILLEFER, MIDWEST, NUPRO, ORAQIX, OSSEOSPEED, PEPGEN P-15, POLOCAINE, PORTRAIT,  PRIME & BOND, PROFILE, PROTAPER, RINN, SANI-TIP, SHADEPILOT, STYLUS, SULTAN, SUREFIL, THERMAFIL, TRUBYTE, WELLSPECT, XENO, XIVE, XYLOCAINE and ZHERMACK .



Dental Consumable Products



Dental consumable products consist of dental sundries and small equipment used in dental offices for the treatment of patients. Net sales of dental consumable products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 28%, 33% and 35% of the Company's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



DENTSPLY's dental sundry products in the dental consumable products category include dental anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, impression materials, restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride. The Company manufactures thousands of different dental sundry consumable products marketed under more than one hundred brand names.



Small equipment products in the dental consumable products category consist of various durable goods used in dental offices for the treatment of patients. DENTSPLY's small equipment products include high and low speed handpieces, intraoral curing light systems, dental diagnostic systems and ultrasonic scalers and polishers.



Dental Laboratory Products



Dental laboratory products are used in the preparation of dental appliances by dental laboratories. Net sales of dental laboratory products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 11%, 14% and 16% of the Company's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



DENTSPLY's products in the dental laboratory products category include dental prosthetics, including artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics and crown and bridge materials. Equipment in this category includes computer aided machining (CAM) ceramic systems and porcelain furnaces.



Dental Specialty Products



Dental specialty products are specialized treatment products used within the dental office and laboratory settings. Net sales of dental specialty products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 48%, 46% and 46% of the Company's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. DENTSPLY's products in this category include endodontic (root canal) instruments and materials, implants and related products, bone grafting materials, 3D digital implantology, dental lasers and orthodontic appliances and accessories.



Consumable Medical Device Products



Consumable medical device products consist mainly of urological products including catheters, certain surgical products, medical drills and other non-medical products.  Net sales of consumable medical device products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 13%, 7% and 3% of the Company's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.












Markets, Sales and Distribution



The Company believes that the market for its products will grow over the long-term based on the following factors:



•Increasing worldwide population.



•Growth of the population 65 or older - The percentage of the U.S., European, Japanese and other regions population over age 65 is expected to nearly double by the year 2030.  In addition to having significant needs for dental care and healthcare, the elderly in these regions are well positioned to pay for the required procedures since they control sizable amounts of discretionary income.



•Natural teeth are being retained longer - Individuals with natural teeth are much more likely to visit a dentist in a given year than those without any natural teeth remaining.



•The changing dental practice in North America and Western Europe - Dentistry in North America and Western Europe has been transformed from a profession primarily dealing with pain, infections and tooth decay to one with increased emphasis on preventive care and cosmetic dentistry.



•The demands for patient comfort and ease of product use and handling.



•Per capita and discretionary incomes are increasing in emerging nations - As personal incomes continue to rise in the emerging nations of the Pacific Rim, CIS and Latin America, healthcare, including dental services, is a growing priority.  Many surveys indicate the middle class population will expand significantly within these emerging markets.



•The Company's business is less susceptible than other industries to general downturns in the economies in which it operates.  Many of the products the Company offers relate to dental procedures and health conditions that are considered necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment.  Dental specialty products and products that support discretionary dental procedures are the most susceptible to recessionary conditions.



DENTSPLY believes that demand in a given geographic market for its dental and medical products vary according to the stage of social, economic and technical development of the particular market.  Geographic markets for DENTSPLY's dental and medical products can be categorized into the following two stages of development:



Developed Markets

The U.S., Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and certain other countries are highly developed markets that demand the most advanced dental and health products and have the highest level of expenditures for dental and medical care. These markets account for approximately 80% to 85% of the Company's net sales.  In these markets, dental care is increasingly focused upon preventive care and specialized dentistry, in addition to basic procedures, such as excavation of teeth and filling of cavities, tooth extraction and denture replacement.  These markets require varied and complex dental products, utilize sophisticated diagnostic and imaging equipment and demand high levels of attention to protect against infection and patient cross-contamination.  A broader segment of the population in these markets can afford higher end treatments in both dental and medical care.



Developing Markets

In certain countries in Central America, South America, Eastern Europe, Pacific Rim, Middle East and Africa, most dental care is often limited to excavation of teeth and filling of cavities and other restorative techniques, reflecting more modest per capita expenditures for dental and medical care.  These markets account for approximately 15%  to 20% of the Company's net sales.  These markets demand diverse products and broader alternatives to address patient and professional needs. However, there is also a portion of the population in these markets that receive excellent dental and medical care similar to that received in developed countries.  As such our higher end products are actively sold into all of these regions.



The Company offers products and equipment for use in markets at both of these stages of development.  The Company believes that demand for more technically advanced products will increase as each of these markets develop.  The Company also believes that its recognized brand names, high quality and innovative products, technical support services and strong international distribution capabilities position it well, to benefit from opportunities in virtually any market.














Dental



DENTSPLY distributes approximately half of its dental products through distributors and importers.  However, certain highly technical products such as precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, crown and bridge porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic appliances, implants, and bone substitute and grafting materials are sold directly to the dental laboratory or dental professionals in some markets.  During 2012, the Company did not have any single customer that represented ten percent or more of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales.  In both 2011 and 2010, one customer, Henry Schein Incorporated, a dental distributor, accounted for 11%  of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales.  No other single customer, represented ten percent or more of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales during 2011 or 2010.



Although many of its dental sales are made to distributors, dealers and importers, DENTSPLY focuses its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools which are the end-users of its products.  As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach, DENTSPLY employs approximately 3,650 highly trained, product-specific sales and technical staff to provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the particular sales and technical support requirements of the distributors, dealers and the end-users.  The Company conducts extensive distributor, dealer and end-user marketing programs.  Additionally, the Company trains laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants and dentists in the proper use of its products and introduces them to the latest technological developments at its educational courses conducted throughout the world.  The Company also maintains ongoing relationships with various dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in the dental field, although there is no assurance that these influential dental professionals will continue to support the Company's products in the future.



Medical



The Company's urology products business operates directly in 15 countries throughout Europe and North America, with distributors in 22 additional markets.  The largest markets include Germany, UK, France and Italy.  Sales channels target urologists, urology nurses, general practitioners and direct-to-patients.



The surgery products business operates directly in 11 countries throughout Europe and Australia, with distributors in 25 additional markets.  The largest markets include UK, Italy and Australia.  Sales channels target surgeons, hospital nurses, physiotherapists, hospital purchasing departments and medical supply distributors.



Historical reimbursement levels within Europe are higher for hydrophilic catheters which explain a greater patient usage of hydrophilic products in that market.  In the U.S., the reimbursement environment has improved since 2008 as the infection control cost benefits of disposable catheters gain acceptance among payers.



The Company also maintains ongoing relationships with various medical associates, professional and key opinion leaders to help promote our products, although there are no assurances that they will continue to support the Company's products in the future.



Product Development



Technological innovation and successful product development are critical to strengthening the Company's prominent position in the dental and medical markets that it serves.  It is also required to maintain and grow its leadership positions in product categories where it has a high market share and to grow market share in other product categories.  While many of DENTSPLY's existing products undergo brand extensions, the Company also continues to focus efforts on successfully launching innovative products that represent fundamental change.



New advances in technology are also anticipated to have a significant influence on future products in dentistry and in select areas of healthcare.  As a result, the Company pursues research and development initiatives to support this technological development, including collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools.  Through its own internal research centers as well as through its collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools, the Company directly invested $85.4 million, $66.7 million and $49.4 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, in connection with the development of new products, improvement of existing products and advances in technology.  The continued development of these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company's strategic goal as a leader in defining the future of dentistry and in select areas in health care.



In addition to the direct investment in product development and improvement, the Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, and by entering into licensing agreements with third parties as well as purchasing technologies developed by third parties.










Acquisition Activities



DENTSPLY believes that the dental products industry continues to experience consolidation with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution, although it remains fragmented thereby creating a number of acquisition opportunities.  DENTSPLY also seeks to expand its position in consumable medical device products through acquisitions.



The Company views acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy.  These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the Company's core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business, including new technologies, additional products and geographic breadth.



Operating and Technical Expertise



DENTSPLY believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success.  The manufacturing process of the Company's products requires substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company's products.  The Company continues to automate its global manufacturing operations in order to lower costs.



Financing



Information about DENTSPLY's working capital, liquidity and capital resources is provided in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Form 10-K.



Competition



The Company conducts its operations, both domestic and foreign, under highly competitive market conditions.  Competition in the dental and medical products industries is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease of use, as well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by professionals, technicians and patients.  DENTSPLY believes that its principal strengths include its well-established brand names, its reputation for high quality and innovative products, its leadership in product development and manufacturing, its commitment to customer satisfaction and support of the Company's products by dental and medical professionals.



The size and number of the Company's competitors vary by product line and from region to region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.



Regulation



The Company's products are subject to regulation by, among other governmental entities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”).  In general, if a dental or medical “device” is subject to FDA regulation, compliance with the FDA's requirements constitutes compliance with corresponding state regulations.  In order to ensure that dental and medical products distributed for human use in the U.S. are safe and effective, the FDA regulates the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing and distribution of, and record-keeping for, such products.  The introduction and sale of dental and medical products of the types produced by the Company are also subject to government regulation in the various foreign countries in which they are produced or sold.  DENTSPLY believes that it is in substantial compliance with the FDA and foreign regulatory requirements that are applicable to its products and manufacturing operations.



Dental and medical devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are generally classified by the FDA into a category that renders them subject only to general controls that apply to all medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding, notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices.  In the European Union, DENTSPLY's products are subject to the medical devices laws of the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European Commission.  Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations.  DENTSPLY products in Europe bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to European regulations.



All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Various groups have alleged that dental amalgam containing mercury is harmful to human health and have actively lobbied state and federal lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt regulatory changes restricting the use, or requiring a warning against alleged potential risks, of dental amalgams.  The FDA's Dental Devices Classification Panel, the National Institute of Health and the U.S. Public Health Service have each indicated that no direct hazard to humans from exposure to dental amalgams has been demonstrated.  In response to concerns raised by certain consumer groups regarding dental amalgam, the FDA formed an advisory committee in 2006 to review peer-reviewed scientific literature on the safety of dental amalgam.  In July 2009, the FDA concluded its review










of dental amalgam, confirming its use as a safe and effective restorative material.  Also, as a result of this review, the FDA classified amalgam and its component parts, elemental mercury and powder alloy, as a Class II medical device.  Previously there was no classification for encapsulated amalgam and dental mercury (Class I) and alloy (Class II) were classified separately.  This new regulation places encapsulated amalgam in the same class of devices as most other restorative materials, including composite and gold fillings, and makes amalgam subject to special controls by FDA.  In that respect, FDA recommended that certain information about dental amalgam be provided, which includes information indicating that dental amalgam releases low levels of mercury vapor, that studies on people age six and over and FDA estimated exposures of children under six, have not indicated any adverse health risk associated with the use of dental amalgam.   After the FDA issued this regulation, several petitions were filed asking the FDA to reconsider its position.  Another advisory panel was established by the FDA to consider these petitions.  Hearings of the advisory panel were held in December 2010.  The FDA has taken no action as of the filing date of this Form 10-K from this latest advisory panel meeting.



In Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in amalgam filling materials have been the subject of public discussion.  As a consequence, in 1994 the German health authorities required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use of amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing age.  Additionally, some groups have asserted that the use of dental amalgam should be prohibited because of concerns about environmental impact from the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam, which has resulted in the sale of mercury containing products being banned in Sweden and severely curtailed in Norway.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury.



Sources and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished Goods



The Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by the Company.  Most of the raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous sources.  No single supplier accounts for more than 10% of DENTSPLY's requirements.



Intellectual Property



Products manufactured by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains more than 2,500 patents throughout the world and is licensed under a small number of patents owned by others.



DENTSPLY's policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark registrations both in the U.S. and in significant international markets.  The Company carefully monitors trademark use worldwide and promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the Company.  DENTSPLY believes its patents and trademark properties are important and contribute to the Company's marketing position but it does not consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 11,900 employees.  Of these employees, approximately 3,500 were employed in the United States and 8,400 in countries outside of the United States.  Less than 5% of employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Some employees outside of the United States are covered by collective bargaining, union contract or other similar type program.  The Company believes that it has a positive relationship with its employees.



Environmental Matters



DENTSPLY believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.  Maintaining this level of compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures or on its business.



Other Factors Affecting the Business



Approximately two-thirds of the Company's sales are located in regions outside the U.S., and the Company's consolidated net sales can be impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.



The Company's business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net sales and net income.  The Company typically










implements most of its price changes in the beginning of the first or fourth quarter.  Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs as well as the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period.  Sales for the industry and the Company are generally strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and weaker in the first and third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to the impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.



The Company maintains short lead times within its manufacturing, as such, the backlog on products is not material to the financial statements.



Securities and Exchange Act Reports



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).  The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at the following address:



The Securities and Exchange Commission

100 F Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549



The public may obtain information on the operation of this Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



DENTSPLY also makes available free of charge through its website at www.DENTSPLY.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC.


















