
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                 ------------
                                   FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999       Commission File Number 1-1687

                             PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Pennsylvania                            25-0730780
     (State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

 One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania                  15272
 (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   412-434-3131

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



       Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES    X   NO
                                        ----     ----
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

As of January 31, 2000, 174,036,756 shares of the Registrant's common stock,
with a par value of $1.66 2/3 per share, were outstanding. As of that date,
the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was $9,561
million.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
                         AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                ---------------

As used in this report, the terms "PPG," "Company," and "Registrant" mean PPG
Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, unless the context
indicates otherwise.
                                ---------------

                               


                      Note on Incorporation by Reference

Throughout this report, various information and data are incorporated by
reference to the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (hereinafter
referred to as "the Annual Report to Shareholders"). Any reference in this
report to disclosures in the Annual Report to Shareholders shall constitute
incorporation by reference only of that specific information and data into
this Form 10-K.


                                    Part I
Item 1. Business

PPG Industries, Inc., incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883, is comprised of
three basic business segments: coatings, glass and chemicals. Within these
business segments, PPG has followed a program of directing its resources of
people, capital and technology into selected areas to build upon positions of
leadership. Areas in which resources have been focused are automotive
original, refinish, industrial, aerospace, packaging, and architectural
coatings; flat glass, automotive original and replacement glass, aircraft
transparencies, continuous-strand fiber glass; and chlor-alkali and specialty
chemicals. Each of the businesses in which PPG is engaged is highly
competitive. However, the diversification of product lines and worldwide
markets served tend to minimize the impact on total sales and earnings of
changes in demand for a particular product line or in a particular geographic
area. Reference is made to "Business Segment Information" on pages 29 through
31 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference, for financial information relating to business segments.

Coatings

PPG is a major supplier of protective and decorative coatings. The coatings
industry is highly competitive and consists of a few large firms with global
presence and many smaller firms serving local or regional markets. PPG
competes in its primary markets with the world's largest coatings companies,
most of which have operations in North America and Europe, and many smaller
regional coatings companies. Product development, innovation, quality and
customer service have been stressed by PPG and have been significant factors
in developing an important supplier position.

The coatings business involves the supply of protective and decorative
finishes for automotive original equipment, appliances, industrial equipment
and packaging; factory-finished aluminum extrusions and coils for
architectural uses; aircraft; and other industrial and consumer products. In
addition to supplying finishes to the automotive original equipment market,
PPG supplies automotive refinishes to the aftermarket, which are primarily
sold through distributors. In addition to specific products, PPG supplies
technical expertise, engineering and purchasing services to the automotive
original and industrial portions of the business. In the automotive original
and industrial portions of the coatings business, PPG sells directly to a
variety of manufacturing companies. Automotive original and industrial
coatings are formulated specifically for the customer's needs and application
methods. PPG also supplies adhesives and sealants for the automotive industry
and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for automotive and industrial
applications. The packaging portion of the coatings business supplies finishes
for aerosol, food and beverage containers for consumer products. Product
performance, technology, quality and customer service are major competitive
factors.

The architectural finishes business consists primarily of coatings used by
painting and maintenance contractors and by consumers for decoration and
maintenance. PPG's products are sold through independent distributors, paint
dealers, mass merchandisers, home centers, PPG-operated outlets and directly
to some customers. Price, quality and distribution are key competitive factors
in the architectural finishes market.

The recently acquired aerospace business primarily supplies coatings and
sealants for aircraft as well as sealants for architectural insulating glass
units. The aerospace business distributes products directly to aircraft
maintenance and aftermarket customers around the world.

PPG continued to grow the coatings business through several acquisitions
completed during 1999. In January 1999, the Company completed the acquisition
of the remaining portion of the global packaging coatings business formerly
owned by Courtaulds plc from Akzo Nobel N.V. and completed the purchase of
certain leased assets in connection with its 1998 acquisition of the technical
coatings business of Orica Ltd. In February 1999, the Company acquired the
commercial transport refinish coatings business of Sigma Coatings B.V., a
subsidiary of Belgian refiner PetroFina S.A. In July 1999, PPG acquired the
global automotive refinish, automotive coatings and industrial coatings
business of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC (the ICI business), with the
exception of the ICI businesses in the Indian subcontinent. The acquisition of
a majority of the ICI business in Asia was finalized in the fourth quarter of
1999 and the acquisition of the ICI business in France was finalized in
November 1999. Also, in July 1999, the Company acquired coatings and sealants
maker PRC-DeSoto International, Inc. (PRC-DeSoto) from Akzo Nobel N.V. The
acquisition of the PRC-DeSoto business in France was not finalized until
November 1999. In October 1999, the Company acquired a majority interest in
privately held powder coatings maker Bellaria S.p.A.

The principal production facilities of the coatings business are in North
America and Europe. North American production facilities consist of 24 plants
in the United States, two in Canada and one in Mexico. The three largest
facilities in the United States are the Cleveland, Ohio, plant, which
primarily produces automotive original coatings; the Oak Creek, Wis., plant,
which primarily produces industrial coatings and certain automotive original
coatings; and the Delaware, Ohio, plant, which primarily produces automotive
refinishes and certain industrial coatings. Outside North America,



PPG operates five plants in Italy, four plants in Germany, three plants each
in England and Spain, two plants each in Brazil, China and France, and one
plant each in Argentina, Australia, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Thailand and
Turkey. PPG owns equity interests in operations in Canada, India, South Korea
and Taiwan. Additionally, the coatings business operates 11 service centers in
the United States, two each in Canada and Mexico, and one each in Argentina,
Poland and Portugal to provide just-in-time delivery and service to selected
automotive assembly plants. Twenty-nine training centers in Europe, 20 in the
United States, 18 in Asia, seven in South America, four in the Middle East,
three in Canada and two in Mexico are in operation. These centers provide
training for automotive aftermarket refinish customers. Also, four automotive
original coatings application centers that provide testing facilities for
customer paint processes and new products are in operation. The average number
of persons employed by the coatings segment during 1999 was 15,100.

During 1999, PPG approved a restructuring program and recorded a pre-tax
charge of $42 million for disposal of a redundant European packaging coatings
facility, work force reductions and the closure of a facility. PPG also
recorded a $1 million reversal of previously established restructuring
reserves.

Glass

PPG is one of the major producers of flat glass, fabricated glass and
continuous-strand fiber glass in the world. PPG's major markets are automotive
original equipment, automotive replacement, residential and commercial
construction, aircraft transparencies, the furniture and electronics
industries, and other markets. Most glass products are sold directly to
manufacturing and construction companies, although in some instances products
are sold directly to independent distributors and through PPG distribution
outlets. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by
the continuous-filament process.

The bases for competition are price, quality, technology, cost and customer
service. The Company competes with six other major producers of flat glass,
six other major producers of fabricated glass and two other major producers of
fiber glass throughout the world.

PPG's principal glass production facilities are concentrated in North America
and Europe. Fifteen plants operate in the United States, of which six produce
automotive original and replacement glass products, five produce flat glass,
three produce fiber glass products and one produces aircraft transparencies.
There are three plants in Canada, two of which produce automotive original and
replacement glass products and one produces flat glass. One plant operates in
Italy producing aircraft transparencies. One plant each in England and the
Netherlands produce fiber glass. PPG owns equity interests in operations in
Mexico, the Netherlands, Taiwan, the United States and Venezuela and a
majority interest in a glass distribution company in Japan. Additionally,
there are three satellite operations in the United States and two satellite
operations in Canada that provide limited manufacturing and just-in-time
service to selected automotive customer locations, one coating facility in the
United States for flat glass products and one tempering and fabrication
facility in the United States for flat glass products. The average number of
persons employed by the glass segment during 1999 was 12,800.

During 1999, PPG approved a restructuring program, which included cost
reduction initiatives in our glass operations resulting in a pre-tax charge of
$4 million. We also recorded the reversal of $4 million of previously
established restructuring reserves.

Chemicals

PPG is a major producer and marketer of chlor-alkali chemicals and a supplier
of specialty chemicals. The primary chlor-alkali products are chlorine,
caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer, chlorinated solvents, chlorinated
benzenes and calcium hypochlorite. Most of these products are sold directly to
manufacturing companies in the chemical processing, rubber and plastics,
paper, minerals, metals, and water treatment industries. The primary products
of PPG's specialty chemicals businesses are Transitions(R) lenses; optical
monomers; precipitated silicas for tire, shoe, and battery separator
businesses and phosgene derivatives and other intermediates for the
pharmaceutical and agricultural businesses.

PPG competes with six other major producers of chlor-alkali products. Price,
product availability, product quality and customer service are the key
competitive factors. In the specialty chemicals area, PPG's market share
varies greatly by business; product quality and performance and technical
service are the most critical competitive factors.

Chemicals' principal production facilities are concentrated in North America,
with five plants in the United States and one each in Canada and Mexico. The
two largest facilities, located in Lake Charles, La., and Natrium, W. Va.,
primarily produce chlor-alkali products. Outside North America, PPG operates
two plants each in China and Taiwan, and one each in Australia, Brazil,
France, Ireland, the Netherlands and the Philippines. PPG owns equity
interests in operations in China, Japan, Thailand and the United States. The
average number of persons employed by the chemicals segment during 1999 was
4,900.

During 1999, PPG approved a restructuring program, which included cost
reduction initiatives in our Chemicals operations, and recorded a pre-tax
charge of $1 million.



Raw Materials

The effective management of raw materials is important to PPG's continued
success. The Company's most significant raw materials are titanium dioxide and
epoxy and other resins in the coatings segment; sand, soda ash, energy and
polyvinyl butyral in the glass segment, and energy and ethylene in the
chemicals segment. Most of the raw materials used in production are purchased
from outside sources, and the Company has made, and will continue to make,
supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future.
Assurance of supply of critical raw materials is managed by establishing
multiple sources and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever
possible.

Research and Development

Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities,
during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $301 million, $287 million and $266 million,
respectively. PPG owns and operates several research and development
facilities to conduct research and development involving new and improved
products and processes. Additional process and product research and
development work is also undertaken at many of the Company's manufacturing
plants.

Patents

PPG considers patent protection to be important. The Company's business
segments are not materially dependent upon any single patent or group of
related patents. PPG received $26 million in 1999, $18 million in 1998 and $25
million in 1997 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.

Backlog

In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders.
Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to projections of future
demand and the level of incoming orders.

Non-U.S. Operations

Although PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations, based upon
the magnitude and location of investments, management believes that the risk
associated with its international operations is not significantly greater than
that of domestic operations.

Employees

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG during 1999 was
33,800.

Environmental Matters

Like other companies, PPG is subject to the existing and evolving standards
relating to the protection of the environment. Capital expenditures for
environmental control projects were $19 million, $19 million and $32 million
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for
such projects in 2000 will approximate $26 million, with similar amounts of
annual expenditures expected in the near future. Although future capital
expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly
changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that
environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and costly.

PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning 54 cleanup
sites, including 32 sites on the National Priority List (NPL). While PPG is
not generally a major contributor of wastes to these sites, each potentially
responsible party or contributor may face governmental agency assertions of
joint and several liability as to each cleanup site. Generally, however, a
final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to
the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites,
due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition
and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation.
Additionally, remediation projects have been or may be undertaken at certain
of the Company's current and former plant sites. The Company has established
reserves for those sites where it is probable a liability exists and the
amount can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, PPG had
reserves for environmental contingencies totaling $82 million and $94 million,
respectively. Pre-tax charges against income for environmental remediation
costs totaled $10 million in 1999, $10 million in 1998 and $34 million in
1997.

The Company's experience to date regarding environmental matters leads PPG to
believe that it will have continuing expenditures for compliance with
provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and
future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. However, management
anticipates that such expenditures, which will occur over an extended period
of time, will not result in future annual charges against income that are
significantly greater than those recorded in recent years. It is possible,
however, that technological, regulatory and enforcement developments, the
results of environmental studies and other factors could alter this
expectation. In addition, a portion of such environmental expenditures may be
recovered from insurers and other third parties. In management's opinion, the
Company operates in an environmentally sound manner, is well positioned,
relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates,
and the outcome of these environmental matters will not have a material
adverse effect on PPG's financial position or liquidity. See Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities, including Environmental Matters, in Management's
Discussion and Analysis for additional information related to environmental
matters.



Item 2. Properties

See "Item 1. Business" for information on PPG's production and fabrication
facilities.

Generally, the Company's plants are suitable and adequate for the purposes for
which they are intended, and overall have sufficient capacity to conduct
business in the upcoming year.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

PPG is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential,
including some that it has asserted against others, in which substantial money
damages are sought. These lawsuits and claims relate to product liability,
contract, patent, environmental, antitrust and other matters arising out of
the conduct of PPG's business. Included among PPG's legal proceedings are the
following:

The Company has been named as a defendant in a number of antitrust lawsuits
filed in federal and state courts by various plaintiffs. These suits allege
PPG was involved with competitors in fixing prices and allocating markets for
certain glass products. Twenty-nine cases were filed in federal courts, all of
which have been consolidated in a single federal district court (W.D. Pa.) for
pretrial proceedings under the multidistrict litigation rules. Eleven cases
were filed in state courts in California, Wisconsin, Tennessee and Kansas; the
Wisconsin case was removed to federal court and then consolidated under
multidistrict litigation. Among the defendants in these actions are Pilkington
plc; Libbey-Owens Ford Co., Inc.; AFG Industries; Asahi Glass Co., Ltd.;
Guardian Industries Corp.; and Ford Motor Company. In the federal
multidistrict litigation, the other defendants named above, except for the
Ford Motor Company, have entered into settlement agreements with the
plaintiffs, which are pending court approval. These antitrust lawsuits all
purport to be class actions. In the federal multidistrict litigation, the
court has ruled that the case may proceed as a class action. The plaintiffs in
these cases are seeking economic and treble damages and injunctive relief. The
Company believes it has meritorious defenses in these lawsuits.

For over 30 years, the Company has been a defendant in lawsuits involving
claims alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos. Aggregate
settlements by PPG to date have been immaterial. Over the past few years,
the number of asbestos-related claims against the Company, as well as numerous
other defendants, has increased. At December 31, 1999, the Company was one of
many defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits involving approximately
110,000 claims. In many of the cases, the plaintiffs allege that the Company
should be liable under various "direct participation" and other theories for
injuries involving asbestos-containing thermal insulation products
manufactured and distributed by Pittsburgh Corning Corporation ("PC"). The
Company and Corning Incorporated are each 50% shareholders of PC. The Company
believes it is not responsible for any injuries caused by PC products and
intends to defend against such claims. PPG has successfully defended such
claims in the past. In January 2000, for the first time, a trial court found
PPG liable for injuries to five plaintiffs alleged to be caused by PC
products. The Company intends to appeal that verdict. Separately from the
claims against the Company described above, as a shareholder of PC, any loss
to the Company due to losses incurred by PC arising from asbestos-related
claims would not involve a cash payment and would be limited to the diminution
in value of the Company's investment in PC. If such a loss were to occur, it
would be approximately $34 million on an after-tax basis, based on the
Company's investment in PC as of December 31, 1999.

The Company and others are defendants in three cases filed in State Court in
Maryland claiming damages related to exposure to lead. One case involves a
claim by an adult who claims to have been injured from ingesting lead paint in
the early 1950s. The second case is a purported class action by homeowners for
remediation of single family residences in Maryland constructed before 1978
which contain lead paint. The third case was filed on behalf of six children
who allegedly suffer from lead poisoning. That case alleges the injuries arose
from exposure to lead pigments in paints and exposure to tetraethyl lead
gasoline additives. Over the past ten years, PPG has been a defendant in
several other lawsuits alleging injury due to lead paint. PPG has been
dismissed as a defendant from all those other lawsuits.

PPG believes it has adequate insurance for the personal injury and property
damage claims against the Company described above. PPG's lawsuits and claims
against others include claims against insurers and other third parties with
respect to actual and contingent losses related to environmental, asbestos and
other matters. Management believes that, in the aggregate, the outcome of all
lawsuits and claims involving PPG will not have a material effect on PPG's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



                     Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company are elected annually in April by the
Board of Directors and the business experience during the past five years of
each Executive Officer is set forth below.



(a) Mr. LeBoeuf was Chairman Elect and Chief Executive Officer, President and
    Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, prior to his present
    position.
(b) Mr. Archinaco was Senior Vice President, Glass and Vice President, Glass,
    prior to his present position.
(c) Mr. Bunch was Vice President, Fiber Glass and Vice President,
    Architectural Finishes, prior to his present position.
(d) Mr. Diggs was Senior Vice President and General Counsel Elect and was TRW
    Inc.'s Vice President and Assistant General Counsel prior to joining PPG
    in March 1997.
(e) Mr. Hernandez was Vice President and Controller, prior to his present
    position.
(f) Mr. Pollock was Senior Vice President, Coatings and Resins and Vice
    President, Coatings and Resins, prior to his present position.



                                    Part II

Information with respect to the following Items can be found on the indicated
pages of the Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.











                                   Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by Item 10 regarding Directors is contained under the
caption "Election of Directors" in the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement
for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the Proxy Statement) which will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Regulation
14A, not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, which
information under such caption is incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by Item 10 regarding Executive Officers is set forth
in Part I of this report under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant."

The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is included under the
caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy
Statement which information under such caption is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is contained under the captions
"Compensation of Executive Officers" and "Election of Directors--Compensation
of Directors" in the Proxy Statement which information under such captions is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required by Item 12 is contained under the caption "Voting
Securities" in the Proxy Statement which information under such caption is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by Item 13 is contained under the caption "Election
of Directors--Other Transactions" in the Proxy Statement which information
under such caption is incorporated herein by reference.



                                    Part IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report (see Part II, Item 8
    of this report (page 7) regarding incorporation by reference from the
    Annual Report to Shareholders).

  Financial Statement Schedules for years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
  1997:

    The following should be read in conjunction with the previously
    referenced financial statements.



    All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

(b)  No reports were filed on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the period
     covered by this report.

(c)Exhibits:

     3   The Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, were filed as
         Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
         31, 1995, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.

     3.1 Statement with Respect to Shares, amending the Restated Articles of
         Incorporation effective April 21, 1998 was filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
         the Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998,
         which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.

     3.2 The Bylaws, as amended, were filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's
         Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

     4   The Shareholders' Rights Plan was filed as Exhibit 4 on the
         Registrant's Form 8-K, dated February 19, 1998, which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

     4.1 Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1982, was filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
         PPG's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-44397) dated
         January 16, 1998 (the "1998 Form S-3"), which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

     4.2 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1986, was filed
         as Exhibit 4.2 to the 1998 Form S-3, which exhibit is incorporated
         herein by reference.

     4.3 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 1, 1989, was
         filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the 1998 Form S-3, which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

     4.4 Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1995, was
         filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the 1998 Form S-3, which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

   *10  PPG Industries, Inc. Nonqualified Retirement Plan dated as of January
        1, 1989, as amended January 1, 1996 was filed as Exhibit 10 to the
        Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996, which
        exhibit is incorporated by reference. The Supplemental Executive
        Retirement Plan II as amended, and the Change in Control Employment
        Agreement were filed as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.5, respectively, to the
        Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995. The
        PPG Industries, Inc. Stock Plan was filed as Exhibit 10 to the
        Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997. The
        Directors' Common Stock Plan as amended, was filed as Exhibit 10 to
        the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999. All
        such exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.1 PPG Industries, Inc. Incentive Compensation and Deferred Income Plan
         for Key Employees was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form
         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, which exhibit is
         incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.2 PPG Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan was filed as Exhibit
         10.2 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1998, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.




   *10.3 PPG Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, was
         filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the year
         ended December 31, 1997, which exhibit is incorporated herein by
         reference.

   *10.4 PPG Industries, Inc. Total Shareholder Return Plan for Key Employees
         was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the year
         ended December 31, 1998, which exhibit is incorporated herein by
         reference.

    12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the Five Years
         Ended December 31, 1999.

    13   Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders. (Except for the pages
         and information therein expressly incorporated by reference in this
         Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Shareholders is provided solely for
         the information of the Commission and is not to be deemed "filed" as
         part of the Form 10-K.)

    21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

    23   Consent of Independent Auditors.

    24   Powers of Attorney.

    27   Financial Data Schedule.

* Items referred to in Exhibit 10, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 and incorporated
  by reference are either management contracts, compensatory plans or
  arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit hereto pursuant to Item
  14(c) of Form 10-K.



                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, on February 18, 2000.

                              PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                 (Registrant)

                              By /s/ W. H. Hernandez
                                ...............................................
                                 W. H. Hernandez, Senior Vice President,
                                 Finance

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities indicated, on February 18, 2000.





            INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

            To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of PPG
            Industries, Inc.:

            We have audited the balance sheet of PPG Industries,
            Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and
            1998, and the related statements of income,
            comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash
            flows for each of the three years in the period ended
            December 31, 1999, and have issued our report thereon
            dated January 20, 2000; such financial statements and
            report are included in your 1999 Annual Report to
            Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
            reference. Our audits also included financial
            statement schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying
            Accounts, of PPG Industries, Inc. and subsidiaries
            for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
            The financial statement schedule is the
            responsibility of the Company's management. Our
            responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
            audits. In our opinion, such financial statement
            schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
            financial statements taken as a whole, presents
            fairly in all material respects the information set
            forth therein.

            /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

            Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
            January 20, 2000



PPG Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 For the Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


                             ---------------------

(/1/) Notes and accounts receivable written off as uncollectible, net of
      recoveries, changes attributable to foreign currency translation and
      activity related to businesses sold.



                             PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
                         AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                         -----------------------------

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS







Exhibit                        Description
- -------                        -----------

12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the Five
     Years Ended December 31, 1999.

13   Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23   Consent of Independent Auditors.

24   Powers of Attorney.

27   Financial Data Schedule.

