ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately $784 billion of assets under management as of December 31,
2010, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual
funds, investment management, and real estate services. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark,
New Jersey.



The businesses of Prudential
Financial are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
division, and International Insurance and Investments division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block described below and certain related assets and
liabilities.



We maintain diversified investment
portfolios in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed
maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. As of December 31, 2010, the general account investment portfolio totaled $209.9 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $65.6
billion for the Closed Block Business. For additional information on our investment portfolio see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments” and Note 4 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Prudential
Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and
does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business.



Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses



Demutualization



On December 18, 2001, our date of demutualization, Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under Prudential Insurance’s Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 15, 2000, as amended, which we refer to as the Plan of Reorganization.
On the date of demutualization, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or
increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance.







On the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of
its Common Stock, as well as the sale of shares of Class B Stock, a separate class of common stock, through a private placement. In addition, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial
that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. A portion of the IHC debt was insured by a bond insurer. Concurrent with the demutualization, various subsidiaries
of Prudential Insurance were reorganized, becoming direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial.



The Plan of Reorganization required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is
designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block for future policy dividends after demutualization by allocating assets that will
be used for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. The Plan of Reorganization provided that Prudential Insurance may,
with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The Closed Block is 90% reinsured, including 17% by a
wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial.



Separation of
the Businesses



The businesses of Prudential
Financial are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. For a discussion of the operating results of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group
Insurance division, and International Insurance and Investments division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. See “—Financial Services Businesses” below for a more detailed discussion of the divisions comprising the
Financial Services Businesses. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block and certain other assets and liabilities, including the IHC debt. See “—Closed Block Business” below for
additional discussion of the Closed Block Business. We refer to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business collectively as the Businesses.



The following diagram reflects the allocation of Prudential Financial’s consolidated assets and liabilities between the Financial
Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business:











There is no legal separation of the two Businesses. The foregoing allocation of assets and
liabilities does not require Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance, any of their subsidiaries or the Closed Block to transfer any specific assets or liabilities to a separate legal entity. Financial results of the Closed Block Business,
including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. In addition, any net losses of the Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions
on, or repurchases of, the Class B Stock, will reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally available for dividends on the Common Stock. Accordingly, you should read the financial information for the Financial Services Businesses together with
the consolidated financial information of Prudential Financial.



The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. However, the market value of the Common Stock
may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses.



In order to separately reflect the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business since the date of demutualization, we have allocated all our assets and
liabilities and earnings between the two Businesses, and we account for them as if they were separate legal entities. All assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries not included in the Closed Block Business constitute the
assets and liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of:



•within Prudential Insurance, the Closed Block Assets, Surplus and Related Assets (see below), deferred policy acquisition costs and other assets in
respect of the policies included in the Closed Block and, with respect to liabilities, the Closed Block Liabilities;



•within Prudential Holdings, LLC, the principal amount of the IHC debt, related unamortized debt issuance costs and hedging activities, and a guaranteed
investment contract; and



•within Prudential Financial, dividends received from Prudential Holdings, LLC, and reinvestment proceeds thereof, and other liabilities of Prudential
Financial, in each case attributable to the Closed Block Business.





On the date of demutualization, the majority of the net
proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt was allocated to our Financial Services Businesses. Also, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC distributed $1.218 billion of the net proceeds of the IHC debt to
Prudential Financial to use for general corporate purposes in the Financial Services Businesses. Prudential Holdings, LLC deposited $437 million of the net proceeds of the IHC debt in a debt service coverage account maintained in the Financial
Services Businesses that, together with reinvested earnings thereon, constitutes a source of payment and security for the IHC debt. The remainder of the net proceeds, $72 million, was used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a
portion of the bond insurance related to the IHC debt. To the extent we use the debt service coverage account to service payments with respect to the IHC debt or to pay dividends to Prudential Financial for







purposes of the Closed Block Business, a loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business would be established. Such an inter-business loan would be repaid by the Closed
Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses when earnings from the Closed Block Business replenish funds in the debt service coverage account to a specified level. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on the IHC debt and the debt service coverage account.



We believe that the proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt allocated to the Financial Services Businesses reflected capital in excess of that necessary to support the Closed Block
Business and that the Closed Block Business as established has sufficient assets and cash flows to service the IHC debt. The Closed Block Business was financially leveraged through the issuance of the IHC debt, and dividends on the Class B Stock are
subject to prior servicing of the IHC debt. It is expected that any inter-business loan referred to above will be repaid in full out of the Surplus and Related Assets, but not the Closed Block Assets. Any such loan will be subordinated to the IHC
debt.



The Financial Services Businesses will bear
any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and, as discussed below, the consequences of certain potential adverse tax determinations. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to
indemnify the investors in those securities with respect to certain matters, and any cost of that indemnification would be borne by the Financial Services Businesses.



Within the Closed Block Business, the assets and cash flows
attributable to the Closed Block accrue solely to the benefit of the Closed Block policyholders through policyholder dividends after payment of benefits, expenses and taxes. The Surplus and Related Assets accrue to the benefit of the holders of
Class B Stock. The earnings on, and distribution of, the Surplus and Related Assets over time will be the source or measure of payment of the interest and principal of the IHC debt and of dividends on the Class B Stock. The earnings of the Closed
Block are reported as part of the Closed Block Business, although no cash flows or assets of the Closed Block accrue to the benefit of the holders of Common Stock or Class B Stock. The Closed Block Assets are not available to service interest or
principal of the IHC debt or dividends on the Class B Stock.



Inter-Business Transfers and Allocation Policies



Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors has adopted certain policies with respect to inter-business transfers and accounting and
tax matters, including the allocation of earnings. Such policies are summarized below. In the future, the Board of Directors may modify, rescind or add to any of these policies. However, the decision of the Board of Directors to modify, rescind or
add to any of these policies is subject to the Board of Directors’ general fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed with the investors in the Class B Stock and the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most instances, the Board of Directors may
not change these policies without their consent.



Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers



The transactions permitted between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, subject to any required regulatory
approvals and the contractual limitations noted above, include the following:



•The Closed Block Business may lend to the Financial Services Businesses, and the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business,
in each case on terms no less favorable to the Closed Block Business than comparable internal loans and only for cash management purposes in the ordinary course of business and on market terms pursuant to our internal short-term cash management
facility.



•Other transactions between the Closed Block and businesses outside of the Closed Block, including the Financial Services Businesses, are permitted if,
among other things, such transactions benefit the Closed Block, are at fair market value and do not exceed, in any calendar year, a specified formula amount.



•Capital contributions to Prudential Insurance may be for the benefit of either the Financial Services Businesses or the Closed Block Business and
assets of the Financial Services Businesses within Prudential Insurance may be transferred to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance in the form of a loan which is subordinated to all existing obligations of the Closed Block Business
and on market terms.







•An inter-business loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business may be established to reflect usage of the net proceeds of
the IHC debt initially deposited in the debt service coverage account, and any reinvested earnings thereon, to pay debt service on the IHC debt or dividends to Prudential Financial for purposes of the Closed Block Business.



•In addition to the foregoing, the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business, on either a subordinated or non-subordinated
basis, on market terms as may be approved by Prudential Financial.



•The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business may engage in such other transactions on market terms as may be approved by Prudential
Financial and, if applicable, Prudential Insurance.



•The Board of Directors has discretion to transfer assets of the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block, or use such assets for the benefit
of Closed Block policyholders, if it believes such transfer or usage is in the best interests of the Financial Services Businesses, and such transfer or usage may be made without requiring any repayment of the amounts transferred or used or the
payment of any other consideration from the Closed Block Business.



•Cash payments for administrative purposes from the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses are based on formulas that initially
approximated the actual expenses incurred by the Financial Services Businesses to provide such services based on insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Administrative expenses recorded by the Closed Block Business, and the
related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, utilizing the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Any difference in the cash
amount transferred and actual expenses incurred as reported under U.S. GAAP will be recorded, on an after-tax basis at the applicable current rate, as direct adjustments to the respective equity balances of the Closed Block Business and the
Financial Services Businesses, without the issuance of shares of either Business to the other Business. This direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to each class of common stock for earnings per share purposes. Internal investment
expenses recorded and paid by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under U.S. GAAP and in accordance with internal arrangements governing recordkeeping, bank fees, accounting and
reporting, asset allocation, investment policy and planning and analysis.



Accounting Policies



Accounting policies relating to the allocation of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses between the two Businesses include:



•All our assets, liabilities, equity and earnings are allocated between the two Businesses and accounted for as if the Businesses were separate legal
entities. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that Business. All remaining assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries constitute the assets and
liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses.



•For financial reporting purposes, revenues; administrative, overhead and investment expenses; taxes other than federal income taxes; and certain
commissions and commission-related expenses associated with the Closed Block Business are allocated between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Interest expense and routine maintenance and
administrative costs generated by the IHC debt are considered directly attributable to the Closed Block Business and are therefore allocated to the Closed Block Business, except as indicated below.



•Any transfers of funds between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses will typically be accounted for as either reimbursement
of expense, investment income, return of principal or a subordinated loan, except as described under “—Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers” above.



•The Financial Services Businesses will bear any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and the consequences of
certain potential adverse tax determinations noted below. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to indemnify the investors with respect to certain matters, and any such indemnification would be borne by the
Financial Services Businesses.







Tax Allocation and Tax Treatment



The Closed Block Business within each legal entity is
treated as if it were a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. Accordingly, if the Closed Block Business has taxable income, it recognizes its share of income tax as if it were a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. If the
Closed Block Business has losses or credits, it recognizes a current income tax benefit.







Internal
Short-Term Cash Management Facilities



The
Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business participate in separate internal short-term cash management facilities, pursuant to which they invest cash from securities lending and repurchase activities as well as certain trading and
operating activities. The net funds invested in the facility are generally held in investments that are short-term, including mortgage- and asset-backed securities. Each Business holds discrete ownership of its investments in separate facilities
without affecting or being affected by the level of participation of the other Business.



Financial Services Businesses



The Financial Services Businesses is comprised of three divisions, containing seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division is
comprised of the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life







and Group Insurance division is comprised of the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division is comprised of the International Insurance and
International Investments segments.



See Note 22
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment of the Financial Services Businesses.



U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division



The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management
division conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments.



Individual Annuities



Our Individual Annuities segment manufactures and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. In general, we consider households with investable
assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent in the U.S. market. Our focus on innovative product design coupled with our risk management strategies, as discussed below, has contributed to growth in our business in recent years
and a reduced risk profile. Our annuity products are distributed through a diverse group of independent financial planners, wirehouses, banks, and insurance agents, including Prudential Agents and the agency distribution force of The Allstate
Corporation, or Allstate. In the second half of 2006, we began distributing our annuity products through Allstate’s agency distribution force, as discussed below.



On June 1, 2006, we acquired Allstate’s variable
annuity business through a reinsurance transaction for $635 million of total consideration. Beginning June 1, 2006, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the results of operations of the acquired variable annuity business have been
included in our consolidated financial statements. The acquisition increased our scale and third party distribution capabilities in the U.S., including access to the Allstate-affiliated broker-dealer. The integration of the variable annuity business
acquired from Allstate was completed during the second quarter of 2008.



Competition









Products



We offer variable annuities that provide our customers with
tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a suite of optional guaranteed death and living benefits. The benefit features contractually guarantee the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits made to
the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net deposits”), (2) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”), and/or (3) the highest contract value
on a specified date minus any withdrawals (“contract value”). These guarantees may include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization or at specified dates during the accumulation period and withdrawal and income
benefits payable during specified periods. Our latest optional living benefits guarantee, among other features, the ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a minimum return, credited for a period of time. This
highest daily guaranteed contract value is accessible through periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and not as a lump-sum surrender value.



Our variable annuity investment options provide our customers with the opportunity to invest in proprietary and non-proprietary mutual
funds, frequently under asset allocation programs, and fixed-rate accounts. The investments made by customers in the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds generally represent separate account interests that provide a return linked to an
underlying investment portfolio. The general account investments made in the fixed-rate accounts are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and
interest credited at rates we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. Certain investments made in the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities and certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is
not held to maturity. Based on the contractual terms, the market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the contractholder, or negative, resulting in a deduction from the contractholder’s account value or
redemption proceeds.



The primary risk exposures
of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, timing of annuitization and
withdrawals, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. The rate of return we realize from our variable annuity contracts will vary based on the extent of the differences between our actual experience and the assumptions used in the original
pricing of these products. As part of our risk management strategy, we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of these risks primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, and externally
purchased hedging instruments. Our returns can also vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the impact of any capital markets movements that we may hedge, the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts that
benefit from the automatic rebalancing element, and the impact of risks that are not able to be hedged.











In the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including
the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges primarily consisted of equity-based total return swaps that were designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain
living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. During the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual Annuities segment by terminating the equity-based total return swaps,
as part of a new program to more broadly address the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios. Since the new program incorporates capital implications across a number of businesses, the
results of the hedges under that program are reported within Corporate and Other operations. Additionally, as mentioned above, to the extent we decide to hedge to an amount that differs from our target hedge definition in our living benefit hedge
program, those results would also be reported through Corporate and Other operations. We continue to assess the composition of the hedging program on an ongoing basis.



Marketing and Distribution



Prudential Agents



Our Prudential Agents distribute variable annuities with
proprietary and non-proprietary investment options, as well as fixed annuities. For additional information regarding our Prudential Agent force, see “—U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division—Individual Life.”



Third Party Distribution



Our individual annuity products are also offered through a
variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, wirehouses, banks, and Allstate’s proprietary distribution force. Our distribution efforts are supported by a network of 308 internal and external wholesalers as of
December 31, 2010.



Underwriting and Pricing



We earn asset management and other fees
determined as a percentage of the average assets of the proprietary mutual funds in our variable annuity products. We also earn mortality and expense fees and other fees for various insurance-related options and features, including optional
guaranteed death and living benefit features, based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts or the amount of guaranteed value under the optional living benefit, as applicable. We receive administrative service fees from
many of the







proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds. We price our variable annuities, including optional guaranteed death and living benefits, based on an evaluation of the risks assumed and considering
applicable hedging costs. We price our fixed annuities as well as the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities based on assumptions as to investment returns, expenses and persistency. Competition also influences our pricing. We seek to maintain
a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities. For assets transferred to a fixed-rate account in the general account
pursuant to the automatic rebalancing element discussed above, we earn a spread for the difference between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest credited, similar to our fixed annuities. To encourage persistency, most of
our variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, the living benefit features of our variable annuity products encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit
is fully realized only if the contract persists.



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities
actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for our in force annuity contracts, including the death benefit and living benefit guarantee features associated with some of these
contracts. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, withdrawal rates, mortality rates, as well as margins for adverse deviation. Certain of the living benefit guarantee features
on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value. The fair values of these benefit features are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present
value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature, and are based on management’s expectation of how a market participant would value these embedded derivative liabilities. For variable and fixed annuity contracts, we
establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, and all applicable mortality and expense charges.



Retirement





In recent years we have completed two acquisitions which have increased our scale, expanded our sales and
distribution capabilities and broadened our array of product and service offerings in our full service business.



Union Bank of California’s Retirement Business



On December 31, 2007, we acquired a portion of the
retirement business of Union Bank of California, N.A. for $103 million of cash consideration. This acquisition increased the scale of our product and service offerings and expanded our sales and distribution capabilities on the west coast of the
U.S. The integration of this business was completed in 2008.







MullinTBG



On October 10, 2008, we acquired MullinTBG Insurance
Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including administration of non-qualified executive benefit plans. This acquisition broadened our array of product
offerings, expanded our sales and distribution capabilities and enhanced our position as a single source servicer of both qualified and non-qualified retirement and deferred compensation plans.



Competition



The Retirement segment competes with other large,
well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, investment
performance, and our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. We have seen a trend towards unbundling of the purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where the variety and
flexibility of available funds and their performance are key selection criteria to plan sponsors and intermediaries. In recent years, there has been consolidation among industry providers seeking to increase scale, improve cost efficiencies, and
enter new market segments. However, the market remains competitive with few dominant players.



In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, which are supported by the financial strength ratings of our U.S. insurance
companies. Sales of institutional investment products are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance, company credit and financial strength ratings, product design, marketplace visibility, distribution capabilities, fees,
crediting rates, and customer service. In recent years, market disruptions and rating agency downgrades have caused some of our competitors to withdraw from the institutional market. A continuing lack of supply to the stable value wrap market has
created a significant growth opportunity, which has resulted in a material increase in this business activity.



Products and Services



Full Service





Our full service general account and separate account stable
value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time and to repay account balances or market value upon contract termination. These stable value products are either fully or partially participating,
with annual or semi-annual rate resets giving effect to previous investment experience. We earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping and other administrative services for these products. In addition, we earn profits from partially
participating products from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses.







We also offer fee-based separate account products, through which customer funds are held in
a separate account, retail mutual funds, institutional funds, or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee
backed by the general account. Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, and hedge certain of the related risks utilizing externally purchased hedging instruments.



Our full service offerings are supported by
participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including non-discrimination testing, plan document services, signature-ready documents for required filings, and full actuarial support for defined
benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and acquisition support.



We also offer a broad range of brokerage and banking
solutions, including rollover individual retirement accounts, or IRA’s, mutual funds, and guaranteed income products. Our rollover products and services are marketed to participants who terminate or retire from organizations that are clients of
our retirement plan recordkeeping services.



Institutional Investment Products



The institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the stable value and payout annuity markets. In addition to
the profits discussed below, Prudential Financial’s asset management units earn fees from the management of the general account assets supporting retirement products and, to the extent these units are selected to manage client assets associated
with fee-based products, they also earn asset management fees related to those assets.



Stable Value Markets.Our stable value markets area manufactures investment-only products for use in retail and institutional capital markets and qualified plan markets. Our
primary investment-only general account products are GICs, funding agreements, retail notes and institutional notes. This area also manufactures general and separate account and client-owned trust stable value products, the results of which are
reflected in the full service business. We also offer investment-only stable value wrap products through which customers’ funds are held in either a client-owned trust or a separate account. We pass investment results through to the customer,
subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account and earn fees for providing this guarantee.



Our investment-only general account products offered within this market contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to
repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Because these obligations are backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, profits from our
general account products result from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. The credited interest rates we offer and the volume of issuance are impacted by many factors,
including the financial strength ratings of our U.S. insurance companies, overall market conditions, and other competitive factors.



Payout Annuity Markets.Our payout annuity markets area offers traditional general and separate account
products designed to provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the participant, such as structured settlements, voluntary income products and close-out annuities, which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the
personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of defined contribution participants and the payment obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. With our general account products, the obligation to make annuity payments to
our annuitants is backed by our general account assets, and we bear all of the investment, mortality, retirement, asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts. Our profits from structured settlements, voluntary income
products and close-out annuities result from the emerging experience related to investment returns, timing of mortality, timing of retirement, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. The volume of
issuance of these products is impacted by many factors, including the financial strength ratings of our U.S. insurance companies.







We also provide participating separate account annuity contracts, which are fee-based
products that cover payments to retirees to be made by defined benefit plans. These contracts permit a plan sponsor to retain the risks and rewards of investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity
payments covered by the contract.



Marketing and
Distribution



We distribute our products
through a variety of channels. In our full service business, our dedicated sales and support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and
benefits consultants and, to a lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors. We market our rollover IRA products and services to plan participants through a centralized service team.



In our stable value markets area within our institutional
investment products business, we distribute GICs and funding agreements to institutional investors through our direct sales force and through intermediaries. We also have a global Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program, or FANIP, pursuant to which
a statutory trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance. The medium-term notes are sold to institutional investors through intermediaries under Rule 144A and Regulation S of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”). In addition, a portion of Prudential Financial’s SEC-registered medium-term notes program is allocated for sales to retail investors. The proceeds from the sale of the retail notes may be
used by Prudential Financial to purchase funding agreements from Prudential Insurance. Proceeds from the retail notes may also be used for general corporate purposes. In February 2009, Prudential Insurance also began issuing funding agreements
directly to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.



In our payout annuity markets area within our institutional investment products business, structured settlements are distributed through
structured settlement specialists. Voluntary income products are distributed through the defined contribution portion of our full service business, directly to plan sponsors, or as part of annuity shopping services. Close-out annuities and
participating separate account annuity products are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers.



Underwriting and Pricing



We set our rates for our stable value products within our full service and institutional investment products businesses using pricing
models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense and profitability assumptions. In addition, for products within our payout annuity markets area, our models also use assumptions for mortality and early retirement risks. Upon
sale of a product, we adjust the duration of our asset portfolio and lock in the prevailing interest rates. Management continuously monitors cash flow experience and works closely with our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups to
review performance and ensure compliance with our investment policies. We seek to mitigate interest rate risks, including those associated with the current low interest rate environment, with thorough underwriting, pricing and active asset/liability
matching portfolio management.



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined
reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for our in force annuity products. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, expenses, mortality rates, retirement,
as well as margins for adverse deviation as appropriate. For accumulation products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the customer but have not yet
been reflected in credited rates.



Asset Management



The Asset Management segment provides a
broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio management, mutual funds, asset securitization activity and other structured







products, and proprietary investments. These products and services are provided to the public and private marketplace, as well as our U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division,
International Insurance and Investments division and Individual Annuities and Retirement segments, as well as the Closed Block Business.



We earn asset management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management fee
arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated
with the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn commercial mortgage servicing fees and investment results from proprietary investing.



Competition



The Asset Management segment competes with numerous asset
managers and other financial institutions. In the markets for our asset management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, investment philosophy and process, talent, organizational stability and the
client relationship. Our private placement and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. The competition will vary depending on the product or service being
offered.



Operating Data



The following tables set forth the assets under management
of the investment management and advisory services group of our Asset Management segment at fair value by asset class and source as of the dates indicated.



December 31, 2010EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$51.3$160.4$23.6$235.3Retail customers(2)72.727.01.5101.2General account4.1195.80.9200.8Total$128.1$383.2$26.0$537.3



December 31, 2009EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$47.9$120.3$20.2$188.4Retail customers(2)58.224.61.684.4General account3.7179.31.0184.0Total$109.8$324.2$22.8$456.8December 31, 2008EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$38.6$96.8$25.8$161.2Retail customers(2)38.321.51.861.6General account3.2168.60.8172.6Total$80.1$286.9$28.4$395.4



(1)Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts.

(2)Consists of: (a) individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts; (b) funds invested in
proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and (c) third party sub-advisory relationships. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the
general account.







(3)Includes private fixed income and commercial mortgage assets of institutional customers of $10.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, $10.1 billion as of
December 31, 2009 and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2008, and private fixed income and commercial mortgage assets in our general account of $72.5 billion, $64.5 billion and $61.7 billion, as of those dates, respectively.



Products and Services



In our asset management areas, we offer the following
products and services:



Public Fixed Income
Asset Management



Our public fixed income
organization manages fixed income portfolios for U.S. and international, institutional and retail clients, as well as for our general account. Our products include traditional broad market fixed income strategies and single-sector strategies. We
manage traditional asset-liability strategies, as well as customized asset-liability strategies. We also manage hedge strategies, as well as collateralized loan obligations. We also serve as a non-custodial securities lending agent.



Portfolios are managed by seasoned portfolio managers
across six sector specialist teams: Corporate, Leveraged Finance, Emerging Markets, Global Rates and Securitized Products, Municipals and Money Markets. A separate team is dedicated to securities lending activities. All strategies are managed using
a research-based approach, supported by significant credit research, quantitative research, and risk management organizations.



Public Equity Asset Management



Our public equity organization provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients. We
manage a broad array of publicly-traded equity asset classes using various investment styles. The public equity organization is comprised of two wholly-owned registered investment advisors, Jennison Associates LLC and Quantitative Management
Associates LLC. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research to manage portfolios for institutional and private clients through separately-managed accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory
relationships. Jennison Associates also manages fixed income portfolios for institutional clients through discretionary accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory relationships. Quantitative Management Associates
manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary quantitative models tailored to meet client objectives.



Private Fixed Income Asset Management



Our private fixed income organization provides asset management services by investing in private placement
investment grade debt, private placement below investment grade debt, and mezzanine debt securities. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts, insurance company
separate accounts, and private fund structures. A majority of the private placement investments are directly originated by our investment staff.



Commercial Mortgage Origination and Servicing



Our commercial mortgage operations provide mortgage
origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac. Through the third quarter of 2008, we had
originated shorter-term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. Due to unfavorable market conditions experienced at that time and the inherent risk of these loans, we suspended the
origination of interim loans. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale by the borrower of the underlying collateral. These loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already
stabilized. As of December 31, 2010, the principal balance of interim loans totaled $1.3 billion.



Real Estate Asset Management



Our global real estate organization provides asset management services for single-client and commingled private and public real estate
portfolios and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment







vehicles investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients through 20 offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from
fully diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end funds that invest in specific types of properties or specific geographic regions or follow other specific investment strategies. Our global real estate organization has an established
presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.



Proprietary Investments



We make proprietary investments to support the creation and management of funds offered to third-party investors in private and public real estate, fixed income and public equities asset classes. The fair
value of these investments was approximately $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For more information on these investments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Asset Management.” Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes
of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other proprietary investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we
offer and manage (seed investments). We also make loans to, and guarantee obligations of, our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.



Mutual Funds and Other Retail Services



We manufacture, distribute and service investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset
management expertise in the U.S. retail market. Our products are designed to be sold primarily by financial professionals including both Prudential Agents and third party advisors. We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of 41
mutual funds as of December 31, 2010. These products cover a wide array of investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with varying objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial
needs.



Additionally, we offer banks and other
financial services organizations a wealth management platform, which permits such banks and organizations to provide their retail clients with services including asset allocation, investment manager research and access, clearing, trading services,
and performance reporting.



Marketing and Distribution



We provide investment management
services for our institutional customers through a proprietary sales force organized by asset management business. Each asset management business has an independent marketing and client service team working with clients. Institutional asset
management services are also offered through the Retirement segment of the U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division.



Most of the retail customer assets under management are invested in our mutual funds and our variable annuities and variable life
insurance products. These assets are gathered by the U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, the International Insurance and Investments division, the Individual Annuities segment and third party networks. Additionally, we work with third
party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.



We also provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account, as described under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments—General Account Investments.”



U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division



The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
division conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.







Individual Life



Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes
individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be
mass affluent and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed through independent third party distributors and Prudential Agents.



Certain fixed expenses are allocated between the Individual
Life segment and the Closed Block Business based upon allocation methodologies consistent with U.S. GAAP reporting. However, as policies in force within the Closed Block Business continue to mature or terminate, the level of expenses to be allocated
to the Closed Block Business will decrease, potentially increasing the expense allocations to the Individual Life segment.



Competition



The Individual Life segment competes with large, well-established life insurance companies. We compete primarily based on price, service,
distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial stability. Due to the large number of competitors, price competition is strong. Factors that could influence our ability to competitively price products while achieving targeted
returns include: the cost and availability of financing for statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, the timing of and our ability to utilize tax deductions associated with statutory reserves, product
designs which impact the amount of statutory reserves and the associated tax deductions, and the level of and pace of changes in interest rates. The current environment of low interest rates and volatile equity markets has resulted in a greater
demand for dividend-paying whole life products across the industry which we no longer offer.



Products



Our primary insurance products are variable life, term life and universal life and represent 42%, 49% and 8%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance, net of reinsurance, in force at
the end of 2010. In recent years, as term life insurance sales have increased and variable life insurance sales have decreased, we have seen term life insurance become a larger percentage of our net in force.



Across all of our products we offer a living benefits option
that allows insureds who are diagnosed with a terminal illness, or permanently confined to a nursing home, to receive a portion of their insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of death, to use as needed.



We have a variety of settlement and payment options for the
settlement of life insurance claims in addition to lump sum checks, including placing benefits in retained asset accounts, which earn interest and are subject to withdrawal in whole or in part at any time by the beneficiaries.



Variable Life Insurance



We offer a number of individual variable life insurance
products that provide a return linked to an underlying investment portfolio selected by the policyholder while providing the policyholder with the flexibility to change both the death benefit and premium payments. The policyholder generally has the
option of investing premiums in a fixed rate option that is part of our general account and/or investing in separate account investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed rate option will accrue interest
at rates we determine that vary periodically based on our portfolio rate. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. Each product provides for the deduction of charges and expenses from the customer’s contract
fund. We also offer a variable product that has the same basic features as our variable universal life product but also allows for a more flexible guarantee against lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. In the affluent market,
we offer a private placement variable universal life product, which also utilizes investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand continues to
favor term and universal life insurance.







A significant portion of our Individual Life insurance segment’s profits are associated
with our large in force block of variable policies. Profit patterns on these policies are not level and as the policies age, insureds generally begin paying reduced policy charges. This, coupled with net policy count and insurance in force runoff
over time, reduces our expected future profits from this product line. Asset management fees and mortality and expense fees are a key component of variable life product profitability and vary based on the average daily net asset value. Due to
policyholder options under some of the variable life contracts, lapses driven by unfavorable equity market performance may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this period being borne by the Company.



Term Life Insurance



We offer a variety of term life insurance products that
provide coverage for a specified time period. Most term products include a conversion feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of
premium if the insured is alive at the end of the level premium period. There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance protection.



Individual Life profits from term insurance are not expected to directly correlate, from a timing perspective, with the increase in term
insurance in force. This results from uneven product profitability patterns, as well as varying costs of our ongoing capital management activities related to a portion of the statutory reserves associated with these products, which may vary with
each year of business issued.



Universal Life
Insurance



We offer universal life insurance
products that feature a fixed crediting rate that varies periodically based on portfolio returns, flexible premiums and a choice of guarantees against lapse. Universal life policies provide for the deduction of charges and expenses from the
policyholders’ contract fund. Individual Life profits from universal life insurance are impacted by mortality and expense margins and net interest spread.



Marketing and Distribution



Third Party Distribution



Our individual life products are offered through a variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, general agencies and
producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and support estate and wealth transfer planning. The life insurance products offered are
generally the same as those available through Prudential Agents. Our third party efforts are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers. We also offer a simplified-issue term life insurance policy and a single-premium universal life
insurance policy available to customers of select banks and other financial institutions.



Prudential Agents



Our Prudential Agents distribute Prudential variable, term and universal life insurance, variable and fixed annuities, long-term care, and investment and other protection products with proprietary and
non-proprietary investment options as well as selected insurance and investment products manufactured by others. The number of Prudential Agents was 2,471, 2,447 and 2,360 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Over the same period,
average agent productivity, based upon average commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents, has decreased to $52,739 for 2010 from $57,700 for 2008 due to unstable market conditions and the shift of the agent population toward new
and less experienced agents, which tends to temporarily depress overall productivity.



Prudential Agent product sales are primarily to customers in the U.S. mass and mass affluent markets, as well as small business owners. Other than certain training allowances or salary paid at the
beginning of their employment, we pay Prudential Agents on a commission basis for the products they sell. In addition to commissions, Prudential Agents receive employee benefits, including medical and disability insurance, an employee savings
program and qualified retirement plans.







Prior to the sale of our property and casualty insurance operations in 2003, the Individual
Life segment had been compensated for property and casualty insurance products sold through Prudential Agents. Following the sale, Prudential Agents have continued access to non-proprietary property and casualty products under distribution
agreements entered into with the purchasers of these businesses, as well as other non-proprietary product providers; therefore, the Individual Life segment continues to be compensated for sales of these products.



The compensation arrangements for certain non-proprietary
products provide an opportunity for additional compensation to the Individual Life segment based on multi-year profitability of the products sold. This additional compensation is not predictable since the multi-year profitability of the products is
subject to substantial variability and, additionally, the compensation arrangements are periodically renegotiated which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was revised
effective in late 2008 and the profit opportunities were significantly reduced in 2010 and beyond.



As mentioned above, the Individual Life segment distributes products offered by the Annuities, Group Insurance and Asset Management segments and is paid a market rate by these businesses to distribute
their products. These payments may be more or less than the associated distribution costs, and any profit or loss is included in the results of the Individual Life segment.



Underwriting and Pricing



For our fully underwritten life insurance, underwriters
follow detailed and uniform policies and procedures to assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products. Depending on the age of the applicant and amount of insurance requested, we require the applicant to take a variety of
underwriting tests, such as medical examinations, electrocardiograms, blood tests, urine tests, and gather information such as physician records and investigative reports. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life insurance on expected
death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We use assumptions for mortality, interest, expenses, policy persistency, and premium payment pattern in pricing policies. Some of our policies are fully guaranteed. Others have
current premiums/charges and interest credits that we can change subject to contractual guarantees.



Our operating results are impacted by changes in interest rates. We routinely update the interest crediting rates that we credit to policyholder accounts on our universal life policies and on the fixed
account of our variable life policies, which are both subject to contractual minimum rates. In resetting these rates, we consider the returns on our portfolios supporting these policies, current interest rates, the competitive environment and our
profit objectives. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our policyholder accounts. We seek to mitigate interest rate risks, including those associated with the current
low interest rate environment, with active asset/liability matching portfolio management. For term life products, interest rate assumptions used to calculate reserves are fixed at the policy issue date and subsequent declines in portfolio yields
have an immediate impact on product profitability.



Our operating results are also impacted by differences between actual separate account fund performance, mortality and persistency
experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. Our Individual Life segment employs capital management activities, including the financing of tax deductible statutory reserves
required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, to maximize product returns and enable competitive pricing. Capital management activities are impacted by the cost of financing and our ability to access the capital markets, and
insurance regulations. For a more detailed discussion of our capital management activities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing
Activities.”



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined
reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for in force life policies. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity
rates, as well as margins for adverse deviation. For certain products, such as term and universal life, we are required to hold statutory reserves in excess of these liabilities. In these circumstances we engage in capital management activities







to reduce the financial and pricing impact of carrying a portion of these excess statutory reserves. For variable and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts, we establish liabilities for
policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost of insurance charges.



Reinsurance



The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product
profitability. Since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk we assume under our newly-sold individual life insurance policies. The maximum exposure we retain is $30 million on a single life and $35 million on a
second-to-die policy. In some instances, lower limits apply. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the
concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.



Group
Insurance



Our Group Insurance segment
manufactures and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, long-term care, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with
employee and membership benefits plans. Group Insurance also sells accidental death and dismemberment, preferred provider and indemnity dental and other ancillary coverages, and provides plan administrative services in connection with its insurance
coverages.



Competition



The Group Insurance segment competes with other large,
well-established life and health insurance providers in the U.S. markets, and is a top provider of both group life and disability insurance. The markets in which we compete are mature markets, hence we compete primarily based on strong brand
recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial stability and range of product offerings. Due to the large number of competitors, price competition is strong. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations,
affinity groups or other organizations, such as those with over 10,000 insured individuals. We have a strong portfolio of products and the ability to meet complex needs of the large clients, providing opportunities for continuing stabilized premiums
and growth. Employee-pay (voluntary) coverage has become increasingly important in today’s environment as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions/funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the
workplace.



Products



Group Life Insurance



We offer group life insurance products including
employer-pay (basic) and voluntary coverages. This portfolio of products includes basic and supplemental term life insurance for employees, optional term life insurance for dependents of employees and group universal life insurance. We also offer
group variable universal life insurance, basic and voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance and business travel accident insurance. Many of our employee-pay coverages include a portability feature, allowing employees to retain their
coverage when they change employers or retire. We also offer a living benefits option that allows insureds that are diagnosed with a terminal illness to receive a portion of their life insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of death, to use as
needed.



We have a variety of settlement and
payment options for the settlement of life insurance claims in addition to lump sum checks, including placing benefits in retained asset accounts, which earn interest and are subject to withdrawal in whole or in part at any time by the
beneficiaries.



Group Disability Insurance



We offer short- and long-term group
disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term disability generally provides a weekly benefit amount (typically 50% - 70% of the

insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit) for three to six months, and long-term disability







covers the period after short-term disability ends. Long-term disability insureds may receive total or partial disability benefits. Most long-term disability policies begin providing benefits
following a 90- or 180-day waiting period (during which short-term disability may be provided) and generally continue providing benefits until the insured reaches normal retirement age. Long-term disability benefits are paid monthly and are limited
to a portion, generally 50% - 70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Our approach to disability claims management incorporates a focus on early intervention, return-to-work programs and successful rehabilitation
of claimants. We also offer absence management services which assist employers in managing employee absences and workplace productivity including administrative tracking and management for certain employee absence events. The absence management
services we provide can also be integrated with our short- and long-term disability management services.



Other



We offer individual and group long-term care insurance, group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance and preferred provider
organization (PPO) and indemnity dental plans. Long-term care insurance protects the insured from the costs of an adult day care center, a nursing home or similar live-in care situation or a home health or a personal care aide. Group corporate- and
trust-owned life insurance are group variable life insurance contracts typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees. PPO and indemnity dental products, as well as voluntary dental
plans, are sold to groups with between 25 and 1,000 employees with no benefit waiting periods.



Marketing and Distribution



Group Insurance has its own dedicated sales force that is organized around products and market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefits brokers and consultants. Group Insurance also
distributes individual long-term care products through Prudential Agents as well as third party brokers and agents.



Underwriting and Pricing



We have developed standard rating systems for each product line in the Group Insurance segment based on our past experience and relevant industry experience. For our earlier generation long-term care
products, experience data was very limited. As the long-term care industry is maturing, the information available, both our own and industry experience, for use in underwriting has improved. We are not obligated to accept any application for a
policy or group of policies from any distributor. We follow standard underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of
insurability.



We determine premiums on some of
our policies on a retrospective experience-rated basis, in which case the policyholder bears some of the risk or receives some of the benefit associated with claim experience fluctuations during the policy period. We base product pricing of group
insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits that we calculate using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses and persistency, depending upon the specific product features.



Some policies are not eligible to receive experience-based
refunds. The adequacy of our pricing of these policies determines their profitability during the rate guarantee period. In addition, our profitability is subject to fluctuation period to period, based on the differences between actual mortality and
morbidity experience and the assumptions used in pricing our policies. However, we anticipate that over the rate guarantee period we will achieve mortality and morbidity levels more closely aligned with the assumptions used in pricing our policies.
Market demand for multiple year rate guarantees for new policies increases the risk associated with unanticipated changes in experience patterns as well as deviations from expense and interest rate assumptions. We seek to mitigate interest rate
risks, including those associated with the current low interest rate environment, with thorough underwriting, pricing and active asset/liability matching portfolio management.



We routinely make pricing adjustments, when contractually
permitted that take into account the emerging experience on our group insurance products. While there can be no assurance, we expect these actions, as well as pricing discipline in writing new business, will allow us over time to achieve benefits
ratios that are consistent with our profit objectives.







Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined
reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these reserves on actuarially-recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the U.S., which we modify to reflect our actual
experience when appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. We also establish a liability for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited
interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost of insurance charges, as applicable.



Reinsurance



The Group Insurance segment uses reinsurance to limit losses from large exposures, and in response to client requests. To a smaller extent, we also assume risk through reinsurance in certain situations.
If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure.



International Insurance and Investments
Division



The International Insurance and
Investments division conducts its business through the International Insurance and International Investments segments.



International Insurance



Our International Insurance segment manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products, including
certain health riders with fixed benefits, to the mass affluent and affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other countries outside the U.S. through its Life Planner operations. In addition, we offer similar products to the broad middle income market
across Japan through Life Advisors, who are associated with our separately-operated Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Gibraltar Life, operation, which we acquired in April 2001. We commenced sales in non-U.S. markets through our Life
Planner operations, as follows: Japan, 1988; Taiwan, 1990; Italy, 1990; Korea, 1991; Brazil, 1998; Argentina, 1999; Poland, 2000; and Mexico, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our Life Planner operations in Japan and Korea, and our
Gibraltar Life operations represented 48%, 10% and 37%, respectively, of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the International Insurance segment, and in aggregate, represented 48% of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of
the Financial Services Businesses, translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates. We continue to explore opportunities for a more diverse mix of business including an increased focus on the international retirement market.



We continue to seek opportunities for expansion
into high-growth markets in targeted countries, such as in China and India. During 2007, we entered into a joint venture in India where we have a 26% interest, the maximum currently allowed by regulation in India. The joint venture received its
insurance license in June 2008 and commenced sales of life insurance products shortly thereafter. In addition, we also have an investment in China, through a consortium of investors that holds a minority interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group)
Co., Ltd. In December 2009, China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. listed its shares on the Hong Kong exchange, and the consortium of investors agreed not to sell its shares before one year from the listing. In December 2010, the consortium of
investors sold 16% of its holdings, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $66 million to Prudential, and sold approximately 40% of its remaining holdings in the first quarter of 2011, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $153 million to Prudential.



We manage each operation on a stand-alone basis with local
management and sales teams, with oversight by senior executives based in Asia and Newark, New Jersey. Each operation has its own marketing, underwriting and claims, investment management, and actuarial functions. In addition, large portions of the
general account investment portfolios are managed by our International Investments segment. Operations generally invest in local currency securities, typically bonds issued by the local government or its agencies. In our larger operations, we have
more diversified portfolios that also include investments in U.S. dollar denominated securities.







Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and Related
Entities



On February 1, 2011,
Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or Star, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, or Edison, and certain other AIG subsidiaries (collectively, the
“Star and Edison Businesses”) pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was approximately $4.8 billion, comprised of approximately $4.2 billion in
cash and $0.6 billion in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. All acquired entities are Japanese corporations and their businesses are in Japan.
Prudential Financial intends to make a Section 338 election under the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the acquisition resulting in the acquired entities being treated for U.S. tax purposes as newly-incorporated companies.



The acquired businesses distribute individual life insurance,
group life insurance, group annuities, medical insurance, and fixed annuities primarily through captive agents, independent agents, and banks. As of December 31, 2010, these businesses had approximately $174 billion face amount of in force
individual insurance and approximately 7,490 captive agents. The addition of these operations to our existing businesses will increase our scale in the Japanese insurance market and provide complementary distribution opportunities. Star and
Edison’s bank channel distribution will be transferred and integrated with Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential Gibraltar Financial. In addition, we expect to integrate the core operations of Star and
Edison, excluding their bank channel distribution, with our Gibraltar Life operations by early 2012, subject to local regulatory approvals.



Acquisition of Yamato Life



On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in
October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and, under the reorganization agreement, acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of
Yamato’s insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges are 20% in the first year and will decline by 2% each year thereafter.
Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd.



Competition



The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are quite mature and highly penetrated. Private-sector life insurance companies also compete
with life insurance cooperatives and postal insurance entities in these markets. Generally, the cooperatives and postal insurance entities are not subject to the stringent insurance regulations that are effective for private-sector life insurers. We
generally compete more on service provided to the customers than on price. In our operations other than Gibraltar Life and our joint venture in India, we compete by focusing primarily on a limited market using our Life Planner model to offer high
quality service and needs-based protection products. The success of our model in some markets makes us vulnerable to imitation and targeted recruitment of our sales force; thus the loss of highly-skilled and productive Life Planners to competitors
is a significant competitive risk. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and retain our Life Planners by continuously evaluating and adjusting our training and compensation programs, where appropriate, to positively impact retention.



Products



We currently offer various traditional whole life, term
life, and endowment policies, which provide for payment on the earlier of death or maturity, as well as retirement income life insurance products that combine an insurance protection element similar to that of term life policies with a retirement
income feature. In 2010, Gibraltar Life introduced a cancer whole life product which appeals to the business market because of its favorable tax treatment. In some of our operations we also offer certain health riders with fixed benefits, as well as
annuity products, which are primarily represented by U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuities in Gibraltar Life and variable annuities in Korea. In 2009, Gibraltar Life expanded its fixed annuity products, which now includes Australian dollar, Euro,
and Yen denominated products. These contracts impose a market value adjustment if the







invested amount is not held to maturity. The market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the contractholder, or negative, resulting in a deduction from the
contractholder’s account value or redemption proceeds. We also offer variable life products in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Poland and interest-sensitive life products in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Argentina. Generally, our international insurance
products are non-participating and denominated in local currency. Certain of our operations also offer U.S. dollar denominated products. Where non-local currency products are offered, both the premiums and benefits are guaranteed in the currency of
the product offered.



Marketing and Distribution



The following table sets forth the
number of Life Planners and Life Advisors for the periods indicated.



As of December 31,201020092008Life Planners:Japan(1)3,1223,0943,071All other countries3,4433,5153,294Life Advisors6,2816,3986,330Total12,84613,00712,695



(1)In 2010, 2009 and 2008, 92, 152 and 70 Life Planners, respectively, were transferred to Gibraltar Life. Of the transferred Life Planners, 45, 54 and 43, in 2010, 2009
and 2008, respectively, were transferred to support our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution. The remainder have joined either as Gibraltar Life Advisors or as an associate in the agency branch discussed below. The Life Planners
transferred to support bank channel distribution and the agency branch are not included in the Life Advisor counts above.



Life Planner Model



Our Life Planner model is significantly different from the way traditional industry participants offer life insurance in Japan and in most
of the other countries where we do business. It also differs from the way we market through the Life Advisors of Gibraltar Life. We believe that our selection standards, training, supervision and compensation package are key to the Life Planner
model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent productivity and policy persistency than our local competitors. In general, we recruit Life Planners with:



•university degrees, so that the Life Planner will have the same educational background and outlook as the target customer;



•a minimum of two years of sales or sales management experience;



•no prior life insurance sales experience; and



•a pattern of job stability and success.



The Life Planner’s primary objective is to sell protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and
affluent customers.



The number of Life Planners
in our Japanese operation was stable, from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. This includes the impact of the transfer of 92 Life Planners to Gibraltar Life during this period, primarily in support of our efforts to expand the bank
channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders discussed below. This also reflects the Company’s efforts to further improve retention and the quality of Life Planners by selective screening. The decrease in Life Planners in all
other countries, from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, was driven by decreases of 76, 53 and 31, in Taiwan, Poland, and Argentina, respectively, and was partially offset by increases of 43 in Italy and 36 in Brazil.



Life Advisors



Our Life Advisors are the proprietary distribution force for
products offered by Gibraltar Life. Their focus is to provide individual protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Advisor operation is based on a variable
compensation plan designed







to improve productivity and persistency that is similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Advisors decreased in 2010 primarily reflecting disciplined hiring
standards intended to enhance retention and productivity.



During 2008, a new agency branch was created in Gibraltar Life that focuses on servicing our Japanese Life Planner policyholders that are not actively serviced by a Life Planner (i.e., orphaned
policyholders). In addition to servicing orphaned policyholders, the agency branch promotes Gibraltar Life’s products with a focus on retirement and medical insurance products.



Bank Distribution Channel



In 2006, Gibraltar Life commenced sales, primarily of U.S.
dollar denominated fixed annuity products, through banks to supplement its core Life Advisor distribution channel. During 2009, the fixed annuity product offering was expanded to include Australian dollar, Euro, and Yen denominated products.
Beginning in early 2008, Gibraltar Life began selling protection products, both Yen- and U.S. dollar denominated, as a result of the liberalization of banking regulations allowing for the sale of additional insurance products. Sales of products
primarily intended to provide premature death protection comprised a major portion of bank channel sales for 2010. As of December 31, 2010, most of the bank channel distribution for Japan is placed through Prudential Gibraltar Financial. As of
December 31, 2010, there were distribution agreements with thirty-one banks; however, a significant amount of our sales in Japan through our bank channel distribution is derived through a single Japanese mega-bank. We recently initiated a
distribution relationship with a second large Japanese bank and will continue to explore other opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through the bank channel, as well as other complementary distribution channels.



Underwriting and Pricing



Our International Insurance segment is subject to
substantial local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each International Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S.
practices in underwriting individual policy risks. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with
each operation’s reinsurers.



Pricing of our
products, particularly individual life insurance in Japan and Korea, is more regulated than in the U.S. Generally, premiums in each country are different for participating and non-participating products, but within each product type they are
generally similar for all companies. Interest rates guaranteed under our insurance contracts may exceed the rates of return we earn on our investments, and, as a result, we may experience negative spreads between the rate we guarantee and the rate
we earn on investments. The profitability on our products from these operations results primarily from margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges. In addition, the profitability of our products is impacted by differences between actual
mortality experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. However, we anticipate over the long-term to achieve the aggregate mortality levels reflected in the assumptions used in
pricing.



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined
reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as margins
for adverse deviation. For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well as annuity products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premiums collected plus interest or investment
results credited less surrenders, and charges for cost of insurance and administration fees.



In some of the markets in which we operate, it is difficult to find appropriate long-duration assets to match the characteristics of our long-duration product liabilities. Due to the long-term nature of
many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to increase the duration of our Japanese yen investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer-term securities or, by entering into long-duration







floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long-dated product liabilities, and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. We continue to
manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and will implement these hedging strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of
market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields upon the resumption of these strategies will depend on the then current interest rate environment.



Reinsurance



International Insurance reinsures portions of its insurance
risks, primarily mortality, with both selected third party reinsurers and Prudential Insurance. International Insurance also buys catastrophe reinsurance that covers multiple deaths from a single occurrence in our Life Planner operations in Japan,
Taiwan and Brazil. We also have coinsurance agreements with Prudential Insurance for the U.S. dollar denominated business in our Japanese Life Planner insurance operations. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its
obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.



International Investments



Our International Investments segment offers proprietary and
non-proprietary asset management, investment advice and services to retail and institutional clients in selected international markets. These services are marketed through proprietary, third party and bank distribution networks and encompass the
businesses of our international investments operations and our global commodities group, which are described in more detail below.



Our international investments operations include manufacturing of proprietary products and distribution of both proprietary and
non-proprietary products, tailored to meet client needs. In this business, we invest in asset management and distribution businesses in targeted countries, including through investments in operating joint ventures, to expand our mass affluent
customer base outside the U.S. and to increase our global assets under management. We seek to establish long-term relationships with our clients through third party channels as well as our proprietary distribution networks. Additionally, this
business manages large portions of the general account investment portfolios of our international insurance operations.



Our global commodities group provides advice, sales and trading on a global basis covering a wide variety of commodity, financial and
foreign exchange futures, swap and forward contracts, including agricultural commodities, base and precious metals, major currencies, interest rate and stock indices primarily to an institutional client base. We conduct these operations through
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia, and are members of most major futures exchanges. Our global commodities group primarily serves as an intermediary between its customers and, therefore, assumes minimal market risk, except counterparty credit
risk related to its customers. We conduct futures transactions on margin according to the regulations of the different futures exchanges. To the extent clients are unable to meet their commitments and margin deposits are insufficient to cover
outstanding liabilities, we may be required to purchase or sell financial instruments at prevailing market prices in order to fulfill the client’s obligations.



On July 12, 2007, our international investments
operations sold its 50% interest in the operating joint ventures Oppenheim Pramerica Fonds Trust GmbH and Oppenheim Pramerica Asset Management S.a.r.l., which were accounted for under the equity method, to our partner Oppenheim S.C.A. for $121
million. These businesses establish, package and distribute mutual fund products to German and other European retail investors. We recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of $37 million in 2007.



On January 18, 2008, we made an additional investment of $154 million in our UBI Pramerica operating joint
venture in Italy, which we account for under the equity method. This additional investment was necessary to maintain our ownership interest at 35% and was a result of the merger of our joint venture partner with another Italian bank, and their
subsequent consolidation of their asset management companies into the UBI Pramerica joint venture.







On July 1, 2008, we acquired a 40 percent interest in GAP Asset Management of Brazil,
which we account for under the equity method as an operating joint venture.



On October 6, 2009, we sold our mutual fund and banking operations in Mexico. This transaction did not include our insurance business, our pension fund business or our real estate investments that
are located in Mexico.



On June 1, 2010, we
sold Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprised our Korean asset management operations.



In the third quarter of 2010, we reached an agreement with
our Everbright joint venture partner to purchase an additional 12% stake in the company. This additional investment, which is pending approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, would increase our ownership interest to 45%.



Corporate and Other



Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after
allocations to our business segments and the real estate and relocation services business, as well as divested businesses except for those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Corporate Operations



Corporate operations consist primarily of:
(1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other
tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other
employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities and deferred
compensation; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual
life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) businesses that we have placed in wind-down status but have not divested; (8) results of our capital protection strategies; and (9) the impact of transactions with other segments.



The wind-down businesses, which are included in
the results of our corporate operations, consist of the following:



•We have not actively engaged in the assumed life reinsurance market since the early 1990s; however, we remain subject to mortality risk for certain
assumed individual life insurance policies under the terms of the reinsurance treaties.



•We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992, and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical policies. Most of
our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major medical policies, the 1997 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act guarantees
renewal. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been sufficient to pay claims and
expenses.



Our capital hedge
program within corporate operations includes the following:



•We include in corporate operations the results of our capital hedge program which broadly addresses the equity market exposure of the statutory capital
of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of
Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries.”







•We manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our living benefit hedging program, which is described under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.” Consistent with sound risk management practices, we
evaluate hedge levels versus our target given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Because this
decision is based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our target hedge definition is reported through corporate operations. See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries” for additional
discussion.



Consistent with the
amendment of our definition of adjusted operating income in the third quarter of 2010, adjusted operating income excludes market value changes of derivatives used in our capital hedge program, as well as the net impact of embedded derivatives
related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions, including the impact of hedging to an amount that differs from our target hedge definition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for additional information and an explanation of adjusted operating income.



We assess the composition of these hedging programs on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of
the Company’s risk position or other factors.



Residential
Real Estate Brokerage Franchise and Relocation Services



Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services is our integrated real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business. The real estate group markets franchises primarily to existing real
estate companies. Our franchise agreements grant the franchisee the right to use the Prudential name and real estate service marks in return for royalty payments on gross commissions generated by the franchisees. The franchises generally are
independently owned and operated. This business also has a finance subsidiary that makes debt and equity investments in a limited number of franchisees.



Our relocation group offers institutional clients and government agencies a variety of services in connection with the relocation of their
employees. These services include: coordination of appraisal; inspection, purchase and sale of relocating employees’ homes; equity advances to relocating employees; assistance in locating homes at the relocating employee’s destination;
household goods moving services; client cost-tracking and a variety of relocation policy and group move consulting services. Generally the client is responsible for carrying costs and any loss on sale with respect to a relocating employee’s
home that is purchased by us. Our government clients and certain corporate clients utilize a fixed price program under which we assume the benefits and burdens of ownership, including carrying costs and any loss on sale.



Divested Businesses



The following operations are businesses that have been or
will be sold or exited that did not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We include the results of these divested businesses in our income from continuing operations, but we exclude these results from
our adjusted operating income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for an explanation of adjusted operating income.



Financial Advisory



In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a
divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This business consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture described below, which was sold on December 31, 2009, in addition to expenses relating
to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.







On July 1, 2003, we combined our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations
with those of Wachovia Corporation (“Wachovia”) and formed Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC (“Wachovia Securities”). On December 31, 2008, Wachovia merged with and into Wells Fargo & Company (“Wells
Fargo”), which succeeded to Wachovia’s rights and obligations under the joint venture agreements. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo
Advisors, to Wells Fargo. For more information on our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations



In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage
securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial
mortgage-backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, were previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other
commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment.



Property and Casualty Insurance



In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies, which included Prudential Property and Casualty Insurance Company (“Prupac”) that operated nationally in 48 states outside of New
Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual. We have agreed not to compete with the buyers. A non-compete agreement is effective until the termination of our distribution agreement with Liberty Mutual. We have
reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks that Liberty Mutual did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our remaining property and casualty obligations under these
reinsurance contracts based on the current information available; however, we may be required to take additional charges in the future that could be material to our results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period.



In connection with the sale, Liberty Mutual has the right to
sell Prupac back to us. This right became exercisable by Liberty Mutual as of October 31, 2010. Under the terms of the put right, the business transferring to us would be the business we already reinsure, as described in the preceding
paragraph. Any business written after the 2003 sale and prior to a put closing would also transfer to us but would be fully reinsured by Liberty Mutual.



Prudential Securities Capital Markets



In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities’ activities to implement a fundamental shift in our business strategy.
We subsequently exited the lead-managed equity underwriting business for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business. As of December 31, 2010 we had remaining assets amounting to $74 million related to Prudential
Securities’ institutional fixed income activities.



Other



In 2007, we exited the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group, and retained certain securities
relating to trading exchange memberships of these former operations. These securities were received in 2006 in connection with the commencement of public trading of stock exchange shares, and were fully disposed of in 2008.



We previously marketed individual life insurance in Canada
through Prudential of America Life Insurance Company, or PALIC. In 2000, we sold our interest in PALIC and indemnified the purchaser for certain liabilities with respect to claims related to sales practices or market conduct issues arising from
operations prior to the sale. We also remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies sold by PALIC under the terms of the reinsurance treaties.







Discontinued Operations



Discontinued operations reflect the results of the following businesses which qualified for “discontinued
operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP:



•We sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our group managed and indemnity healthcare business to Aetna Inc. in 1999.



•We discontinued certain branches of our international securities operations in the fourth quarter of 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2004 we
discontinued the remaining branches of our international securities operations.



•We discontinued our Philippine insurance operations in the second quarter of 2006 and subsequently sold these operations in the third quarter of 2006.



•In the third quarter of 2006, we entered into a reinsurance transaction related to the Canadian Intermediate Weekly Premium and Individual Health
operations, which resulted in these operations being accounted for as “discontinued operations.”



•We discontinued the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group in the second quarter of 2007.



•We discontinued our Mexican asset management operations in the second quarter of 2009 and subsequently sold these operations in the fourth quarter of
2009.



•We discontinued our Korean asset management operations in the first quarter of 2010 and subsequently sold these operations in the second quarter of
2010.



In addition, direct real
estate investments that are sold or held for sale may require “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Closed Block Business





Our strategy for the Closed Block Business is to maintain the Closed Block as required by our Plan of
Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, to enter
into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The Closed Block is 90% reinsured, including 17% by a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. See Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting of these modified coinsurance arrangements.







As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the
Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the
policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder dividends, and it will not be available
to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for these excess cash flows. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year
based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and
total assets of the Closed Block Business.



Intangible and Intellectual Property



We use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign servicemarks and trademarks. We believe that the goodwill
associated with many of our servicemarks and trademarks, particularly “Prudential®,” “Prudential
Financial®,” “Growing and Protecting Your Wealth®,” the Prudential logo and our “Rock” symbol, are significant competitive assets in the U.S.



On April 20, 2004, we entered into a servicemark and trademark agreement with Prudential plc of the United
Kingdom, with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” The agreement is intended to avoid customer confusion in areas where both companies
compete. Under the agreement, there are restrictions on our use of the “Prudential” name and mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our
“Rock” symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally.



Competition



In each of our businesses we face intense competition from
U.S. and international insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of
products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. We compete in our businesses based on a number of factors including brand recognition,
reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, risk management capabilities, capital management capabilities,
perceived financial strength, and claims-paying and credit ratings. The relative importance of these factors varies across our products, services and the markets we serve.









Consolidations among companies in the financial services industry may occur and result in
competitors with increased market shares, or the introduction of larger or financially stronger competitors through acquisitions or otherwise, in lines of business in which we compete.



Certain of our products compete on the basis of investment performance. A material decline in the investment
performance of these products could have an adverse effect on our sales, as well as potentially increase the level of withdrawals and customer complaints. Rankings and ratings of investment performance have a significant effect on our ability to
increase our assets under management.



Competition
for personnel in our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, Prudential Agents, Life Planners, Life Advisors and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. In the ordinary course of business, we
lose personnel from time to time in whom we have invested significant training. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and retain our insurance agents and employees and to increase their productivity. Competition for desirable non-affiliated
distribution channels is also intense.



Many of
our businesses are in industries where access to multiple sales channels may be a competitive advantage. We currently sell insurance and investment products through both affiliated and non-affiliated distribution channels, including: (1) our
captive sales channel; (2) independent agents, brokers and financial planners; (3) broker-dealers that generally are members of the New York Stock Exchange, including “wirehouse” and regional broker-dealer firms;
(4) broker-dealers affiliated with banks or that specialize in marketing to customers of banks; (5) intermediaries such as retirement plan administrators; and (6) a rapidly growing bank channel in Japan. While we believe that certain
insurance and investment products will continue to be sold primarily through face-to-face sales channels, customers’ desire for objective and not product-related advice may, over time, increase the amount of such insurance and investment
products sold through non-affiliated distributors. In addition, we expect that certain insurance and investment products will increasingly be sold through direct marketing, including through electronic commerce.



Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of
distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. For example, a significant amount of our sales in Japan through banks is derived through a single Japanese mega-bank and a significant portion of our sales in Japan
through Life Advisors is derived through a single association relationship. We recently initiated a distribution relationship with a second large Japanese bank and will continue to explore other opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities
through the bank channel, as well as other complementary distribution channels. We periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties.



The proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution
channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to remain competitive with respect to product offerings, compensation, services offered, and recruiting and retention. We continue our efforts to strengthen and broaden our sales channels, but we
cannot assure that we will be successful. We run the risk that our competitors will have more distribution channels, stronger relationships with non-affiliated distribution channels, or will make a more significant or rapid shift to direct
distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves. If this happens, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected.



Our ability to sell certain insurance products, including
traditional guaranteed products depends significantly on our financial strength ratings. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to sell our insurance products and reduce our profitability. For additional
information on the potential impact on us of ratings downgrades, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Ratings.”



Regulation



Overview



Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our
customers and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more







restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The recent financial market dislocations produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and
regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act discussed below. U.S. law and regulation of our international businesses,
particularly as it relates to monitoring customer activities, has increased in recent years as a result of terrorist activity in the U.S. and abroad.



Regulation Affecting Prudential Financial



Prudential Financial is the holding company for all of our operations. Prudential Financial itself is not licensed as an insurer,
investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it owns regulated entities, Prudential Financial is subject to regulation as an insurance holding company and, as discussed below, a savings and loan holding
company. As a company with publicly-traded securities, Prudential Financial is subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and
regulations adopted in furtherance of that Act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as Prudential Financial.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation.
Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to conduct certain studies and promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process anticipated to occur over the next few years. We cannot predict with any certainty the
results of the studies or the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations,
cash flows or financial condition or make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital.



Key aspects we have identified to date of Dodd-Frank’s potential impact on us include:





•









FRB published for comment proposed regulations implementing this requirement, including a proposal to permit flexibility in the application of certain capital requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank
to non-bank financial companies such as Prudential Financial. We cannot predict what capital regulations the FRB will promulgate under these authorizations, either generally or as applicable to insurance-based organizations. We cannot predict how
the FRB will exercise general supervisory authority over us as to the Company’s business practices.





•





•We will become, as a savings and loan holding company (and if designated as a Designated Financial Company), subject to stress tests to be promulgated
by the FRB in consultation with the newly-created Federal Insurance Office (discussed below) to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. We cannot predict
how the stress tests will be designed or conducted or whether the results thereof will cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial
strength.



•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in that could create or increase the risk that significant liquidity, credit or other problems spread among financial companies. We cannot predict whether any such
recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



•As a savings and loan holding company, we will become subject to the “Volcker Rule” provisions of Dodd-Frank prohibiting, subject to the
rule’s exceptions, “proprietary trading” and the sponsorship of, and investment in, funds (referred to in Dodd-Frank as hedge funds or private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended (collectively, “covered funds”). In January 2011, the Council provided recommendations on the implementation of the Volcker Rule, and the FRB and other agencies are to promulgate regulations thereunder within nine months
thereafter. The rule becomes effective on the earlier of one year after adoption of regulations or July 21, 2012 (two years after Dodd-Frank’s enactment), and activities and investments must be brought into compliance within two years
thereafter, subject to exceptions. We presently believe that the “permitted activities” exceptions to the rule should be interpreted in a manner that does not require our insurance subsidiaries (including our foreign insurance
subsidiaries) to materially alter their securities trading or investing practices, but there can be no assurance that the regulations promulgated will so provide. The













•









•Dodd-Frank establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury to be headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a
non-voting member of the Council and making recommendations to the Council regarding insurers (potentially including the Company) to be designated for stricter regulation. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and
improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.



•Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to require a savings and loan holding company or a Designated Financial Company to place its financial activities in an
intermediate holding company separate from non-financial activities (as defined for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act) and imposes restrictions on transactions between the two businesses. While our non-financial activities are relatively
minor, the imposition of such a requirement on us could be burdensome and costly to implement. Dodd-Frank directs the U.S. Government Accountability Office to study and report to Congressional committees within eighteen months of Dodd-Frank’s
enactment regarding the adequacy of the federal regulatory framework which permits savings and loan holding companies to engage in non-financial activities and the consequence of prohibiting such activities.



•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy
code, administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination (with the approval of the director of the Federal Insurance Office if—as is true with respect to Prudential Financial—the largest United States subsidiary is an insurer) that
the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. Were Prudential Financial subject to such a proceeding, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries would remain subject to rehabilitation and
liquidation proceedings under state law, although the FDIC has discretion and authority to initiate resolution of an insurer under state law if its state insurance regulator has not filed the appropriate judicial action within 60 days of a
systemic risk determination. However, our non-insurance U.S. subsidiaries engaged in financial activities would be subject to any special orderly liquidation process so commenced. We cannot predict how creditors of Prudential Financial or its
insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of Prudential Financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs.



•Dodd-Frank establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”) as an independent agency within the FRB to regulate consumer
financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes, with rule-making and enforcement authority over unfair, deceptive or abusive practices. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB’s
general jurisdiction, and broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. Retirement service providers such as us could become subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction,
but only if the Department of Labor and the Department of the Treasury agree. Otherwise, we believe we offer a very limited number of products subject to CFPB regulation and the impact of Dodd-Frank on our operations in this regard should not be
material; however, it is possible that the regulations promulgated by the CFPB will assert jurisdiction more expansively than we anticipate.



•Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith,
including:



•In January 2011, the SEC staff issued a study that recommends that the SEC adopt a uniform federal fiduciary standard of conduct for registered
broker-dealers and investment advisers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about securities, consider harmonization of the regulation applicable to investment advisers and broker-dealers functions taking into account the
best elements of each regime and conduct rulemakings or provide guidance to facilitate the implementation of a federal fiduciary standard of care. The SEC staff study acknowledges that Dodd-Frank provides that the offering of proprietary products
would not be a per se violation of any new standard of care and that broker-dealers selling proprietary or a limited range of products could be permitted to make certain disclosures about their limited product offerings and obtain customer consents
or acknowledgements.







•The SEC and other regulators are required to promulgate regulations requiring the securitizer, and possibly the originator, of certain asset-backed
securities to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of securities sold, which may apply to activities of our investment management segment if the regulations promulgated treat us as a securitizer or an originator.



•Dodd-Frank imposes various assessments on financial companies, including: ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to
cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the FDIC is to take into account assessments otherwise imposed under state insurance guaranty funds); if we were to become a Designated
Financial Company, assessments to fund a newly-created Office of Financial Research which, among other things, assists the Council; and assessments for the costs of our new regulation by the FRB. We are unable to estimate these costs at this time.



We cannot predict with any
certainty whether these possible outcomes will occur or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.



International Regulatory Initiatives



inter alia

i.e.



These requirements could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both
within and outside the U.S. The possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential “group” of companies also exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.







Other U.S. Federal Regulation



U.S. Tax Legislation



Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit
certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance
contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well
as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers such as changes to estate tax. The estate tax was completely eliminated for 2010, but modified carryover basis rules
applied for property acquired from decedent’s dying in that year. The estate tax has been reinstated through 2012 with a $5 million individual exemption, a 35% maximum rate and step-up in basis rules for property acquired from a decedent.
Estates of decedents who died in 2010 can choose between the rules that were in effect in 2010 or the new rules. It is unclear what Congress will do with respect to the estate tax after 2012.



Legislative or regulatory changes could also impact the amount of taxes that we pay, thereby affecting our
consolidated net income. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable
life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory
tax rate of 35%. On February 14, 2011, the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals.” Although the Administration has not released proposed statutory language, one proposal
would change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulation or legislation, could increase actual tax expense and reduce our
consolidated net income.



There is generally
uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended will sunset by the end of 2012. In addition, the recommendations made by the President’s
bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the U.S. Tax Code. In addition, Congress plans to hold a number of hearings during 2011 devoted to tax reform. It is
unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products.



For additional discussion of possible tax legislative and regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”



Proposed Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee



On February 14, 2011, the Obama
Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals,” which includes a proposal that would impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, or FCRF, on certain financial institutions with over $50
billion in consolidated assets. As proposed, the FCRF would apply to insurance companies or other companies that own insured depositories as of January 14, 2010, which would include the Company. The FCRF would be imposed at a rate of 7.5 basis
points on the “covered liabilities” of companies subject to the FCRF. Covered liabilities are generally the consolidated risk-weighted assets of a company with a few exceptions. Certain policy-related liabilities of insurance companies
would also be excluded. The FCRF would be imposed effective as of January 1, 2013. The amount of the FCRF that would be imposed upon the Company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into law, is unclear, but could be substantial.



ERISA



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to
U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions. Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and
disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a
party in interest. ERISA







also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA,
including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those
plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



USA Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001, enacted in response to the
terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote
cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different,
conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies,
and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Holding Company Regulation



Prudential Financial is subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which
currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register
with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the
insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department.



Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance
companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control
of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more
of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential
Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or
seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator.



Currently, there are several proposals to amend state
insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of regulation of insurance holding companies (such as Prudential Financial). The International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the “IAIS) and the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (the “NAIC”) have promulgated model laws for adoption internationally and in the United States that would provide for “group wide” supervision of Prudential Financial as an insurance holding company in addition to
the current regulation of Prudential Financial’s insurance subsidiaries. While the timing of their adoption and content will vary by jurisdiction, we have identified the following areas of focus in these model laws: (1) uniform standards
for insurer corporate governance; (2) group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies; (3) adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks; and (4) additional regulatory and disclosure requirements
for insurance holding companies. At this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on Prudential Financial.



In addition, many state insurance laws require prior
notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification







statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue
market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Prudential Financial may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws.



As a result of its ownership of Prudential Bank &
Trust, FSB, Prudential Financial and Prudential IBH Holdco, Inc. are considered to be savings and loan holding companies and are subject to annual examination, currently by the Office of Thrift Supervision of the U.S. Department of Treasury
(“OTS”). As discussed above, under Dodd-Frank, we will, among other things, become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB following the transfer to the FRB of the existing authority of the OTS. Federal
and state banking laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of Prudential Financial, and gain indirect control of either Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB or Prudential Trust Company, without prior regulatory approval. Generally,
beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial would be presumed to constitute control. We provide trust services through Prudential Trust Company, a state-chartered trust company incorporated under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and offer both trust directed services and investment products through Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change
of control of Prudential Financial, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some shareholders of Prudential Financial might consider desirable.



Insurance Operations



State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the
District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance regulatory authority is the New Jersey Department of Banking and
Insurance. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they
are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. Products in the U.S. that also constitute “securities,” such as variable life insurance and variable annuities, are also subject to federal and some
state securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, and some state securities commissions regulate and supervise these products.



State Insurance Regulation



State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers
with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including:



•licensing to transact business;



•licensing agents;



•admittance of assets to statutory surplus;



•regulating premium rates for certain insurance products;



•approving policy forms;



•regulating unfair trade and claims practices;



•establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards;



•fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; and



•regulating the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted and other matters.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S.
insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Our U.S.
insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by







these departments. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or the NAIC, has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been adopted, in some cases with minor
modifications, by all state insurance departments.



Effective with the annual reporting period ending December 31, 2010, the NAIC adopted revisions to the Annual Financial Reporting
Model Regulation, or the Model Audit Rule, related to auditor independence, corporate governance and internal control over financial reporting. The adopted revisions require that we file reports with state insurance departments regarding our
assessment of internal control over financial reporting.



State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once
every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In May 2007, the Connecticut insurance regulator completed a routine financial
examination of American Skandia Life Assurance Corporation (now Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation) for the five year period ended December 31, 2005, and found no material deficiencies. In February 2008, the New Jersey insurance
regulator, along with the insurance regulators of Arizona and Connecticut, completed a coordinated financial examination for the five year period ended December 31, 2006 for all of our U.S. life insurance companies as part of the normal five
year examination cycle and found no material deficiencies. In December 2008, the Indiana insurance regulator completed a routine financial examination of Vantage Casualty Insurance Company for the five year period ended December 31, 2007 and
found no material deficiencies.



Financial
Regulation



Dividend Payment
Limitations.The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other
U.S. insurance companies. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.



Risk-Based Capital.In order to
enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a
substantially similar law. The risk-based capital, or RBC, calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company’s assets, liabilities and certain
off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for
items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital
inadequacy. The RBC ratios for each of our U.S. insurance companies currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective action.



Insurance Reserves and Regulatory Capital.State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our
reserves annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for
our contractual obligations and related expenses.



Insurance regulators have begun to implement significant changes in the way in which industry participants must determine statutory
reserves and statutory capital, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees such as variable annuities, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements. Regulatory capital requirements based on
scenario testing have already gone into effect for variable annuity and certain fixed annuity products and products with similar features, and new reserving requirements for these products were implemented as of the end of 2009. The timing and
extent of further changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain.



Solvency Modernization Initiative.State insurance regulators have focused attention on U.S. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the NAIC’s “Solvency
Modernization Initiative.” The Solvency Modernization Initiative focuses on the entire U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting







insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk
management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance.



IRIS Tests.The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance
Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. Insurance
companies generally submit data annually to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using prescribed financial data ratios, each with defined “usual ranges.” Generally, regulators will begin to investigate or monitor an insurance company
if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. None of our U.S. insurance companies is currently
subject to regulatory scrutiny based on these ratios.



Market Conduct Regulation



State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers,
illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.



Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments



Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under
which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer
in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we paid approximately $0.8 million, $4.5 million and $1.7
million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. In addition, in 2009, we received $9.3 million of refunds for assessments paid in prior years. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future
assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established reserves that we believe are adequate for future assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings.



Federal and State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations



Our variable life insurance products, as
well as our variable annuity and mutual fund products, generally are “securities” within the meaning of federal securities laws, registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Federal and some
state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under “—Investment Products and Asset Management Operations” and “—Securities Operations” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect
to these products.



Our mutual funds, and in
certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are “securities” within the meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales
activities with respect to these products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.



Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations



Our investment products and services are
subject to federal and state securities, fiduciary, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments and the
United States Department of Labor are the principal U.S. regulators that regulate our asset management operations. For a discussion of Dodd-Frank’s impact on our investment products and asset management operations, see “— Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” above.







Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by
our businesses, in addition to being registered under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states
and the District of Columbia. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are subject to federal and state regulation, including but not limited to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule, described under “—Securities Operations” below. In addition, we have several
subsidiaries that are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our Prudential Agents and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to
examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those individuals. The federal securities laws
could also require re-approval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control.



Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the
attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. In this regard, the
Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors’ costs of maintaining these plans. Over time,
these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of
certain products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act (the “Employer Recovery Act”) was passed in December 2008 in response to the financial crisis that began in the last half
of 2007. The Employer Recovery Act modifies the method of calculating a plan’s assets for purposes of satisfying the minimum funding rules set forth in the PPA, and ameliorates the financial impact of a plan not meeting its current funding
target. As a result, the Employer Recovery Act may have the effect of delaying some of the positive and negative impacts of the PPA on our business.



For a discussion of potential federal tax legislation and other federal regulation affecting our variable annuity products, see
“—Insurance Operations—Federal Regulation” above.



Securities Operations



Our securities operations, principally conducted by a number of SEC-registered broker-dealers are subject to federal and state securities, commodities and related laws. The SEC, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, or the CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the principal regulators of our securities operations. For a discussion of Dodd-Frank’s impact on our
securities operations, see “—Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” above.



A number of our subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and with some or all of the 50 states and the District of
Columbia. In addition, a number of our subsidiaries are also registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Our broker-dealer affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA.
Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their member broker-dealers. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our
registered broker-dealers.



Broker-dealers and
their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for
individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.



The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the U.S. is subject to regulation under the Commodity
Exchange Act, as amended. The CFTC is the federal agency charged with the administration of the







Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations adopted under that Act. A number of our subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity
trading advisors. Our futures business in our global commodities group is also regulated in the U.S. by the National Futures Association and in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority, or the FSA.



The SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory
organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the
activities of a broker-dealer or an investment advisor or its employees.



As registered broker-dealers and members of various self-regulatory organizations, our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule. The Uniform Net
Capital Rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer’s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. These net capital requirements are designed to
measure the financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealers are also subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and the various securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. Compliance with the net
capital requirements could limit those operations that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities, and may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Privacy Regulation



Federal and state law and regulation require financial
institutions and other businesses to protect the security and confidentiality of personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify customers and other individuals about their policies and practices relating to
their collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information and their practices relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. State laws regulate use and disclosure of social security numbers. Federal
and state laws require notice to affected individuals, law enforcement, regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information, including social security numbers, and require holders of certain personal
information to protect the security of the data. Federal regulations require financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. Federal and state laws and regulations regulate the
ability of financial institutions to make telemarketing calls and to send unsolicited e-mail or fax messages to consumers and customers. Federal law and regulation regulate the permissible uses of certain personal information, including consumer
report information. Federal and state governments and regulatory bodies may be expected to consider additional or more detailed regulation regarding these subjects and the privacy and security of personal information.



Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a
property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending business. In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage
against such property. In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, we may be liable, in certain circumstances, as an “owner” or
“operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us. We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us, although Federal legislation
provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met. However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to
CERCLA liability. Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments prior to taking title to real estate, whether through
acquisition for investment, or through foreclosure on real estate collateralizing mortgages that we hold. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking these







environmental assessments and complying with our internal procedures, and as a result, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up
of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Other



The sale of real estate franchises by our real estate brokerage franchise operation is regulated by various state laws and the Federal Trade Commission. The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act
and state real estate brokerage and unfair trade practice laws regulate payments among participants in the sale or financing of residences or the provision of settlement services such as mortgages, homeowner’s insurance and title insurance.



We are subject to the laws and regulations of
states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. We are currently being examined by a third
party auditor on behalf of 30 U.S. jurisdictions for compliance with the unclaimed property laws of these jurisdictions.



Regulation of our International Businesses





In addition, our international operations face political,
legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, dividend
limitations, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to joint venture partner risks and limits our array of potential remedies.



Our international insurance operations are principally
supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and Financial Services Agency. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Italy and
Poland and have insurance operations in India through a joint venture in which we have a minority interest. We also have an application pending to operate a life insurance joint venture in China. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses
typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance product approvals, sales practices, claims payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among
other items. In some jurisdictions for certain products regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting
requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses.







In order to monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in
which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency margins are used by
regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The solvency margin ratios in certain jurisdictions are required to be disclosed to the
public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The solvency margin ratios
for each of our international insurance operations currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective action.





The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries
where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of dividends that they can pay to shareholders. The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, began paying dividends in 2006. Pursuant to Gibraltar
Life’s reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain restrictions on Gibraltar Life’s ability to pay dividends and we anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life
to pay dividends. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.



Our international investment operations are also supervised primarily by regulatory authorities in the
countries in which they operate. We operate investment related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, India, Germany and Singapore, and participate in investment-related joint ventures in Brazil,
Italy, Mexico and China. These businesses may provide investment-related products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds, brokerage, separately managed accounts, as well as commodities and derivatives products. The
regulatory authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of investment product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures,
securities, commodities and related laws, among other items.



In some cases, our international investment businesses are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations. One is regulated as a broker-dealer in the U.S. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and others are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our international insurance and investment businesses may also be subject to other U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S.
companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or
entities in certain circumstances and we may be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers.



Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their
proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the
results of operations of our international insurance operations in







particular quarterly or annual periods. In addition, in some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law. In those instances, we may also
be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.



Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, substantially similar to such laws in the U.S., all licensed life insurers in Japan are required to be members and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the
Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation, or PPC. These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount
related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we paid approximately $16 million, $15 million and $15 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to
Japanese insurance guaranty association laws.





Our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply
heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability.



As discussed under “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance and Investments Division—International Insurance,” on February 1, 2011, we
completed the acquisition from AIG of the Star and Edison Businesses for a total purchase price of approximately $4.8 billion, comprised of approximately $4.2 billion in cash and $0.6 billion in the assumption of third-party debt. All acquired
entities are Japanese corporations and their businesses are in Japan. The acquisition significantly expands the scope of our operations subject to regulation in Japan.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had 41,044 employees and
sales associates, including 21,008 located outside of the U.S. We believe our relations with our employees and sales associates are satisfactory.



Available Information



Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy
statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov)
that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including Prudential Financial.



You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and







any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be
available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



