ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately $1.060 trillion of assets under management as of
December 31, 2012, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related
services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New
Jersey.



The businesses of Prudential Financial
are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and
International Insurance division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block described below and certain related assets and liabilities.



We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our
insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity
securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. As of December 31, 2012, the general account investment portfolio totaled $330.7 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $67.9 billion for
the Closed Block Business. For additional information on our investment portfolio see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments” and Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Prudential
Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and
does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. However, the market value of the Common Stock may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses.



Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses



Demutualization



On December 18, 2001, Prudential Insurance converted
from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under Prudential Insurance’s Plan of
Reorganization, dated as of December 15, 2000, as amended, which we refer to as the Plan of Reorganization. On the date of demutualization, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential
Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance. In addition, on
the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt.







The Plan of Reorganization required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known
as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block for future policy dividends after
demutualization by allocating assets that will be used for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “—Closed Block Business” below for more
information on the Closed Block.



Separation of the Businesses



The businesses of Prudential Financial are
separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. For a discussion of the operating results of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See “—Financial Services Businesses” below for a more detailed discussion of the divisions comprising the Financial Services
Businesses. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block and certain other assets and liabilities, including the IHC debt. We refer to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business
collectively as the Businesses.



The following
diagram reflects the allocation of Prudential Financial’s consolidated assets and liabilities between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business:







There is no legal
separation of the two Businesses. The foregoing allocation of assets and liabilities does not require Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance, any of their subsidiaries or the Closed Block to transfer any specific assets or liabilities to a
separate legal entity. Financial results of the Closed Block Business, including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. In addition, any net
losses of the Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, the Class B Stock, will reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally available for dividends on the Common Stock. Accordingly, you should read the
financial information for the Financial Services Businesses together with the consolidated financial information of Prudential Financial.



In order to separately reflect the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business since the date
of demutualization, we have allocated all our assets and liabilities and earnings between the two Businesses, and we account for them as if they were separate legal entities. All assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries
not included in the Closed Block Business constitute the assets and liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that business. The
Closed Block Business consists principally of:



•within Prudential Insurance, the Closed Block Assets, Surplus and Related Assets (see below), deferred policy acquisition costs and other assets in
respect of the policies included in the Closed Block and, with respect to liabilities, the Closed Block Liabilities;







•within Prudential Holdings, LLC, dividends received from Prudential Insurance, certain tax benefits and reinvestment proceeds thereof, the principal
amount of the IHC debt, related unamortized debt issuance costs and hedging activities, and a guaranteed investment contract; and



•within Prudential Financial, the Class B stock, dividends received from Prudential Holdings, LLC and any reinvestment proceeds thereof, and other
liabilities of Prudential Financial, in each case attributable the Closed Block Business.



The Closed Block Assets consist of (1) those assets initially allocated to the Closed Block including fixed maturities, equity
securities, commercial loans and other long- and short-term investments; (2) cash flows from such assets; (3) assets resulting from the reinvestment of such cash flows; (4) cash flows from the Closed Block Policies; and
(5) assets resulting from the investment of cash flows from the Closed Block Policies. The Closed Block Assets include policy loans, accrued interest on any of the foregoing assets and premiums due on the Closed Block Policies. The Closed Block
Liabilities are Closed Block Policies and other liabilities of the Closed Block associated with the Closed Block Assets. The Closed Block Assets and Closed Block Liabilities are supported by additional assets held outside of the Closed Block by
Prudential Insurance, to provide additional capital with respect to the Closed Block Policies, as well as invested assets held outside of the Closed Block that initially represented the difference between the Closed Block Assets and the sum of the
Closed Block Liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, which collectively we refer to as the Surplus and Related Assets.



On the date of demutualization, the majority of the net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt was allocated to
our Financial Services Businesses. We believe that the proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt allocated to the Financial Services Businesses reflected capital in excess of that necessary to support the Closed Block Business
and that the Closed Block Business as established has sufficient assets and cash flows to service the IHC debt. The Closed Block Business was financially leveraged through the issuance of the IHC debt, and dividends on the Class B Stock are subject
to prior servicing of the IHC debt.



Within the
Closed Block Business, the assets and cash flows attributable to the Closed Block accrue solely to the benefit of the Closed Block policyholders through policyholder dividends after payment of benefits, expenses and taxes. The Surplus and Related
Assets accrue to the benefit of the holders of Class B Stock. The earnings on, and distribution of, the Surplus and Related Assets over time will be the source or measure of payment of the interest and principal of the IHC debt and of dividends on
the Class B Stock. The earnings of the Closed Block are reported as part of the Closed Block Business, although no cash flows or assets of the Closed Block accrue to the benefit of the holders of Common Stock or Class B Stock. The Closed Block
Assets are not available to service interest or principal of the IHC debt or dividends on the Class B Stock.



Inter-Business Transfers and Allocation Policies



Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors has adopted certain policies relating to payments, loans, capital contributions, transfers
of assets and other transactions between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses; and the allocation between the two Businesses of tax costs and benefits. These inter-business transfer and allocation policies are set forth in
Exhibit 4.3 to this Annual Report. In the future, the Board of Directors may modify, rescind or add to any of these policies, subject to the Board of Directors’ general fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed with the investors in the
Class B Stock and the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most instances, the Board of Directors may not change these policies without their consent.



Cash payments for administrative purposes from the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses are based on formulas that
initially approximated the actual expenses incurred by the Financial Services Businesses to provide such services based on insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Administrative expenses recorded by the Closed Block Business,
and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, utilizing the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Any difference in
the cash amount transferred and actual expenses incurred as reported under U.S. GAAP will be recorded, on an after-tax basis at the applicable current rate, as direct adjustments to the respective equity balances of the Closed Block Business and the
Financial Services Businesses, without the issuance of shares of either Business to the other Business. This direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to each class of common stock for







earnings per share purposes. Internal investment expenses recorded and paid by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under U.S.
GAAP and in accordance with internal arrangements governing recordkeeping, bank fees, accounting and reporting, asset allocation, investment policy and planning and analysis.



Financial Services Businesses



The Financial Services Businesses are comprised of three
divisions, containing six segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division is comprised of the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life
and Group Insurance division is comprised of the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance division is comprised of the International Insurance segment.



See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment
of the Financial Services Businesses.



U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division



The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments.



Individual Annuities



Our Individual Annuities segment manufactures and
distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. In general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent in the U.S. market. We focus
on innovative product design coupled with our risk management strategies, as discussed below.



Competition



We compete with other providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including large, well-established insurance and financial services companies, primarily based on our innovative product
features and our risk management strategies. We also compete based on brand recognition, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities.



In recent years, we have experienced a dynamic competitive
landscape, prompted by challenging global financial markets. During 2012, we implemented variable annuity product modifications to scale back benefits, increase pricing and close a share class, and we suspended additional customer deposits for
variable annuities with certain optional living benefit riders that were no longer being offered. Similarly, certain of our competitors who had previously introduced more aggressive product designs and pricing, have now taken actions to implement
modifications which scale back benefits or to exit, or limit their presence in, the variable annuity marketplace. Despite these actions, our contract retention has been strong, and we believe our product offerings are competitive relative to
substitute products currently available in the marketplace.



Products



We offer variable annuities that provide our customers with tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a suite
of optional guaranteed death and living benefits. The benefit features contractually guarantee the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net
deposits”), (2) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”), and/or (3) the highest contract value on a specified date minus any withdrawals (“contract
value”). We currently offer guarantees that are payable in the event of death, and withdrawal and income living benefits payable during specified periods. Our current optional living benefits guarantee includes, among other features, the
ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a minimum return, credited for a period of time. This guaranteed contract value is a notional amount







that forms the basis for determination of periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and cannot be accessed as a lump-sum surrender value. Our current optional living benefits can
also be purchased with a companion optional death benefit, also based on a highest daily contract value. Certain inforce contracts include guaranteed benefits which are not currently offered, such as annuitization benefits and benefits payable at
specified dates during the accumulation period.



Our variable annuity investment options provide our customers with the opportunity to invest in proprietary and non-proprietary mutual
funds, frequently under asset allocation programs, and fixed-rate accounts. The investments made by customers in the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds generally represent separate account interests that provide a return linked to an
underlying investment portfolio. The fixed-rate accounts that are invested in the general account are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and
interest credited at rates we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. Certain investments made in the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities and certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is
not held to maturity.



The primary risk exposures
of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, contractholder
longevity/mortality, timing of annuitization and withdrawals, withdrawal efficiency and contract lapses. The return we realize from our variable annuity contracts will vary based on the extent of the differences between our actual experience and the
assumptions used in the original pricing of these products. Our returns can also vary due to the impact and effectiveness of our hedging program for any capital markets movements that we may hedge, the impact on that portion of our variable annuity
contracts with an automatic rebalancing element, also referred to as an asset transfer feature, the impact of risks we have retained and the impact of risks that are not able to be hedged.



Our risk management strategy helps to limit our exposure to certain of these risks, utilizing a combination of
product design elements and our living benefits hedging program. The product design elements we utilize for certain products include, among others, asset allocation restrictions, minimum issuance age requirements, and an automatic rebalancing
element. The objective of the automatic rebalancing element, included in the design of all currently-sold optional living benefits, is to mitigate our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility by transferring assets between certain
variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and investments that are expected to be more stable (e.g., a separate account bond portfolio or fixed-rate account). The transfers are based on the static mathematical formula used with the
particular optional benefit which considers a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the impact of investment performance on the contractholder’s total account value. This occurs at the contractholder level, rather than at the fund
level, which we believe enhances our risk mitigation.



Through our living benefits hedging program, we also manage capital markets risk associated with certain of our optional living benefit guarantees. This program represents a balance among three
objectives: 1) provide severe scenario protection, 2) minimize net income volatility associated with an internally-defined hedge target, and 3) maintain capital efficiency. Through our hedge program, we purchase derivatives that seek to replicate
the net change in our hedge target. In addition to mitigating capital markets risk and income statement volatility, the hedging program is also focused on a long-term goal of accumulating assets that could be used to pay claims under these benefits
irrespective of market path, recognizing that, under the terms of the contracts, we do not expect to begin substantial payment of such claims until many years in the future.



For more information regarding the risks inherent in our
products and the mitigants we have in place to limit our exposure to these risks, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by
Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”



Marketing and Distribution



Our annuity products are distributed through a diverse group of independent financial planners, wirehouses, banks, and insurance agents, including Prudential Agents and the agency distribution force of
The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate. Our distribution efforts are supported by a network of 318 internal and external wholesalers as of December 31, 2012.







Underwriting and Pricing



We earn asset management and other fees determined as a
percentage of the average assets of the mutual funds in our variable annuity products, net of subadvisory expenses related to non-proprietary funds. Additionally, we earn mortality and expense fees and other fees for various insurance-related
options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts or the amount of guaranteed value under the optional living benefit, as applicable. We also receive administrative service fees from many of the
proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds.



We
price our variable annuities based on an evaluation of the risks assumed and considering applicable hedging costs. Our pricing is also influenced by competition, and by assumptions regarding contractholder behavior, including persistency, and
benefit utilization and withdrawal timing and efficiency for contracts with living benefit features, as well as other assumptions. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the
profitability of our products. To encourage persistency, most of our variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, the living benefit features of our variable annuity products
encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is fully realized only if the contract persists.



We price our fixed annuities as well as the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities based on many assumptions, including investment
returns, expenses, competition and persistency. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities. For
assets transferred to a fixed-rate account in the general account pursuant to the automatic rebalancing element, we earn a spread for the difference between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest credited, similar to our
fixed annuities.



Reserves



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future
policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for our inforce contracts, including any death benefit and living benefit guarantee features associated with these contracts. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be
appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, withdrawal timing and efficiency and mortality rates. Certain of the living benefit guarantee features on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried
at fair value. The fair values of these benefit features are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature, and are
based on assumptions a market participant would use in pricing these embedded derivative liabilities. For variable and fixed annuity contracts, we establish liabilities for contractholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross
premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, and all applicable mortality and expense charges.



Retirement



Our Retirement segment, which we refer to in the marketplace as Prudential Retirement, provides retirement investment and income products
and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors. Our full service business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, tailored participant education and communication
services, trustee services and institutional and retail investments. We service defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans. For clients with combinations of defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans, we offer
integrated recordkeeping services. We also provide certain brokerage services through our broker-dealer, Prudential Investment Management Services LLC, and trust services through our bank, Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB
(“PB&T”). In 2012, PB&T divested its bank deposits in connection with the previously announced decision to limit its operations to trust-only services. Our institutional investment products business offers investment-only stable
value products, pension risk transfer products, guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, funding agreements, institutional and retail notes, structured settlement annuities and other group annuities, for defined contribution plans, defined benefit
plans, non-qualified plans, and individuals.







Competition



The Retirement segment competes with other large,
well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, investment
performance, and our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. In recent years, we have seen a trend towards unbundling of the purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where
the variety and flexibility of available funds and their performance are key selection criteria to plan sponsors and intermediaries. Additionally, changes in the regulatory environment have driven more transparent fee disclosures, which have
heightened pricing pressures. We have also seen slow case turnover in our mid to large case target markets.



In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, as well as our
ability to offer innovative product solutions. Sales of institutional investment products are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance, company credit and financial strength ratings, product design, marketplace visibility,
distribution capabilities, fees, crediting rates, and customer service. In recent years, we have established ourselves as a leader in the stable value wrap market. Additionally, in 2012, we completed two significant pension risk transfer
transactions, positioning ourselves as innovators in providing pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors. We believe this emerging market offers attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. For certain of our traditional
institutional investment products, economic conditions and other competitive factors have resulted in maturing contracts outpacing new issuances.



Products and Services



Full Service.Our full service business offers plan sponsors and their participants a broad range of
products and services to assist in the delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit, and non-qualified plans, including recordkeeping and administrative services, comprehensive investment offerings and consulting services to
assist plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. As part of our investment products, we offer a variety of general and separate account stable value products and other fee-based separate accounts, as well as retail mutual funds and
institutional funds advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers. In addition, certain products that are designed for the benefit of participants are marketed and sold on an investment-only basis through our full service distribution
channels.



Our full service general account and
separate account stable value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time and to repay account balances or market value upon contract termination. These stable value products are either fully or
partially participating, with annual or semi-annual rate resets giving effect to previous investment experience. We earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping and other administrative services for these products. In addition, we earn
profits from partially participating products from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses.



We also offer fee-based products, through which customer
funds are held in a separate account, retail mutual funds, institutional funds, or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a minimum interest
rate guarantee backed by the general account. Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, and hedge certain of the related risks utilizing externally purchased hedging
instruments.



Our full service fee-based advisory
offerings are supported by participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including non-discrimination testing, plan document services, signature-ready documents for required filings, and full
actuarial support for defined benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and
acquisition support.



Institutional Investment
Products.Our institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the stable value and payout annuity markets.







Stable Value Markets.Our stable value area manufactures
investment-only products for use in retail and institutional capital markets and qualified plan markets. Our primary stable value product offerings are investment-only wraps through which customers’ funds are held in a client-owned trust. These
are participating contracts for which we pass investment results through to the customer, subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account, and earn fees for providing this guarantee. For contracts currently in force, the
minimum interest rate is floored at zero. The fees we earn for providing this guarantee may be reset as defined by the underlying contracts. Contractholders are provided with flexible fund investment alternatives, and assets may be managed by
Prudential Financial’s asset management unit or third party asset managers.



We also offer investment-only general account products in the form of GICs, funding agreements, retail notes and institutional notes. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified
rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Because these obligations are backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, profits
from our general account products result from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses.



Payout Annuity Markets.Our payout annuity area offers innovative pension risk transfer products, as well as
traditional general and separate account products designed to provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the participant.



Our innovative pension risk transfer products include portfolio-protected products and a longevity reinsurance product. Our
portfolio-protected products are non-participating group annuity contracts which we issue to pension plan sponsors and assume all of the investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan. These products
have economic features similar to our traditional general account annuity contracts, discussed below, but may also offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Our longevity reinsurance product is a reinsurance contract from which we
earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties.



During 2012, we completed two significant non-participating group annuity pension risk transfer transactions. Premiums associated with
these transactions represented approximately 38% of Prudential Financial’s total consolidated revenue for 2012. These premiums were largely offset by a corresponding increase in policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy
reserves.



Our traditional general and separate
account products include structured settlements, voluntary income products and other group annuities, which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of defined contribution
participants and the payment obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. For our general account products, we bear all of the investment, mortality, retirement, asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts.
Our profits result from the emerging experience related to investment returns, timing of mortality, timing of retirement, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. Our separate account products
include both participating and non-participating contracts. Our participating contracts are fee-based products that cover payments to retirees to be made by defined benefit plans. These contracts permit a plan sponsor to retain the risks and rewards
of investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity payments covered by the contract. Our non-participating contracts provide pension benefit guarantees to defined benefit plan participants. Under U.S.
GAAP, these contracts are treated as general account products, and have economic features similar to our general account annuity contracts, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account.



Marketing and Distribution



We distribute our products through a variety of channels. In
our full service business, our dedicated sales and support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and benefits consultants and, to a
lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors.



In our
stable value area within our institutional investment products business, we utilize our direct sales force and intermediaries to distribute investment-only stable value wraps and traditional GICs to plan sponsors







and stable value fund managers, and to distribute funding agreements and retail and institutional notes to investors. We also manage a global Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program, or FANIP,
pursuant to which a statutory trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance. Prudential Insurance may also issue funding agreements directly to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York
(“FHLBNY”).



In our payout annuity area
within our institutional investment products business, our pension risk transfer products are distributed through actuarial and third-party brokers. Structured settlements are distributed through structured settlement specialists. Voluntary income
products are distributed through the defined contribution portion of our full service business, directly to plan sponsors, or as part of annuity shopping services. Other traditional group annuities and participating separate account annuity products
are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers.



Underwriting and Pricing



We set our rates for our stable value products within our full service and institutional investment products businesses using pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense
and profitability assumptions. In addition, for products within our payout annuity area, our models also use assumptions for mortality and early retirement risks. These assumptions may be less predictable in emerging markets, and significant
deviations in actual experience from pricing assumptions could affect the profitability of these products. For our investment-only stable value wrap product, our pricing risk is mitigated by the fact that the fees we earn for providing a guaranteed
rate of return may be reset, as defined by the underlying contracts. Additionally, the contracts allow participants to withdraw funds at book value, while contractholder withdrawals occur at market value immediately or at book value over time.



Reserves



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future
policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for our in force annuity products. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, expenses, mortality rates, retirement age and other
behavioral assumptions, as well as margins for adverse deviation as appropriate. For accumulation products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the
customer but have not yet been reflected in credited rates.



Asset Management



The Asset Management segment provides a broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio
management, mutual funds, asset securitization activity and other structured products. These products and services are provided to the public and private marketplace, as well as other segments of our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed
Block Business. We also invest in asset management and investment distribution businesses in targeted countries, including through investments in operating joint ventures, to expand our mass affluent customer base outside the U.S. and to increase
our global assets under management.



We earn asset
management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark
returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn investment results
from strategic investing and revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing.



Competition



The Asset Management segment competes with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. For our asset management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment
performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer products







across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust
institutional and retail businesses have helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private placement and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of
our relationship with the borrower. Competition will vary depending on the product or service being offered.



Products and Services



We offer asset management services for public and private fixed income, public equity and real estate, as well as commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and mutual funds and other retail services
through the following eight businesses:



Prudential Fixed Income.Prudential Fixed Income manages fixed income portfolios for U.S. and international,
institutional and retail clients, as well as for our general account. Our products include traditional broad market fixed income and single-sector strategies. We manage traditional as well as customized asset-liability strategies. We also manage
hedge strategies and collateralized loan obligations and also serve as a non-custodial securities lending agent.



Portfolios are managed by seasoned portfolio managers across six sector specialist teams: Corporate, Leveraged Finance, Emerging
Markets, Global Rates and Securitized Products, Municipals and Money Markets. A separate team is dedicated to securities lending activities. All strategies are managed using a research-based approach, supported by significant credit research,
quantitative research, and risk management organizations.



Jennison Associates.Jennison Associates LLC, a wholly-owned registered investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services by managing
a range of publicly-traded equity, balanced and fixed income portfolios that span market capitalizations, investment styles and geographies. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research to manage portfolios for institutional, private
and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds.



Quantitative Management Associates.Quantitative Management Associates LLC, a wholly-owned registered
investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients by managing a broad array of publicly-traded equity asset classes using various investment styles. Quantitative Management
Associates manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary quantitative processes tailored to meet client objectives.



Prudential Capital
Group.Prudential Capital Group provides asset management services by investing in private placement investment grade and below investment grade debt and mezzanine debt securities, with a majority of the private placement
investments being originated by our staff. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts, insurance company separate accounts, and private fund structures.



Prudential Mortgage Capital
Company.    Prudential Mortgage Capital Company provides commercial mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae,
the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac, and beginning in 2011, as a minority interest joint venture partner and service provider to originate commercial mortgages for future securitization. Through the third quarter of 2008, we had
originated shorter-term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale by the borrower of the underlying collateral.



Prudential Real Estate
Investors.    Prudential Real Estate Investors provides asset management services for single-client and commingled private and public real estate portfolios and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment
vehicles investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients through 22 offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from fully







diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end funds that invest in specific types of properties or designated geographic regions or follow other specific investment strategies. Our global
real estate organization has an established presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.



Prudential Investments.    We manufacture, distribute and service investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. retail
market. Our products are designed to be sold primarily by financial professionals including both Prudential Agents and third party advisors. We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of 57 mutual funds as of December 31, 2012.
These products cover a wide array of investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with varying objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial needs. Additionally, we offer banks and other
financial services organizations a wealth management platform, which permits such banks and organizations to provide their retail clients with services including asset allocation, investment manager research and access, clearing, trading services,
and performance reporting.



Prudential
International Investments.    Prudential International Investments manufactures proprietary products and distributes both proprietary and non-proprietary products, tailored to meet client needs. Our international investment
operations primarily consist of our asset management operations in Japan, India and Taiwan, and our operating joint ventures in Italy and Brazil which are accounted for under the equity method. These results were formerly included in our
International Insurance segment.



In addition, we
make strategic investments to support the creation and management of funds offered to third-party investors in private and public real estate, fixed income and public equities asset classes. Certain of these investments are made primarily for
purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that
we offer and manage (seed investments). We also make loans to, and guarantee obligations of, our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.



Marketing and Distribution



We provide investment management services for our
institutional customers through a proprietary sales force organized by each asset management business. Each business has an independent marketing and client service team working with clients. Institutional asset management services are also offered
through the Retirement segment of our Financial Services Businesses.



Most of the retail customer assets under management are invested in our mutual funds and our variable annuities and variable life insurance products. These assets are gathered by other segments of our
Financial Services Businesses and third party networks. Additionally, we work with third party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.



We also provide investment management services across a broad
array of asset classes for our general account, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments.”



U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division



The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance
division conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.



Individual Life



Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In
general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed
through independent third party distributors and Prudential Agents.







On January 2, 2013, we acquired The Hartford’s individual life insurance business
through a reinsurance transaction. Under the agreement, we paid The Hartford cash consideration of $615 million, primarily in the form of a ceding commission to provide reinsurance for approximately 700,000 life insurance policies with a net
retained face amount in force of approximately $135 billion. This acquisition increases our scale in the U.S. individual life insurance market, particularly universal life products, and provides complementary distribution opportunities through
expanded wirehouse and bank distribution channels.



Competition



The Individual Life segment competes with large, well-established life insurance companies in a mature market. We compete primarily based
on price, service, distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial strength. Due to the large number of competitors, pricing is competitive. Factors that could influence our ability to competitively price products while achieving
targeted returns include: the cost and availability of financing for statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, the availability, utilization and timing of tax deductions associated with statutory reserves,
product designs which impact the amount of statutory reserves and the associated tax deductions, and the level and volatility of interest rates. The current environment of low interest rates and volatile equity markets has resulted in a greater
demand for dividend-paying whole life products across the industry which we no longer offer.



Products



Our primary insurance products are variable life, term life and universal life and represent 40%, 49% and 10%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance in force, net of reinsurance at
the end of 2012. Changing marketplace demand has shifted our sales mix towards primarily term life and universal life products.



Variable Life Insurance.We offer several individual variable life insurance products that provide a return
linked to an underlying investment portfolio selected by the policyholder while providing the policyholder with the flexibility to change both the death benefit and premium payments. The policyholder generally has the option of investing premiums in
a fixed-rate option that is part of our general account or investing in separate account investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed-rate option will accrue interest at rates we determine that vary
periodically based on our portfolio rate, subject to certain contractual minimums. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. We also offer a variable life product that allows for a more flexible guarantee against
lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand continues to favor term and universal life insurance. However, a significant portion of Individual
Life’s profits is associated with our large in force block of variable policies. Profit patterns on these policies are not level and as the policies age, insureds generally begin paying reduced policy charges. This reduction in policy charges,
coupled with net policy count and insurance in force runoff over time, reduces our expected future profits from this product line.



Term Life Insurance.We offer a variety of term life insurance products that provide coverage for a
specified time period. Most term products include a conversion feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of premium if the insured
is alive at the end of the level premium period. There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance protection.



Universal Life Insurance.We offer universal life insurance products that feature flexible premiums, a
choice of guarantees against lapse, and a fixed crediting rate that we determine and that may vary periodically based on portfolio returns, subject to certain contractual minimums. In addition, we offer a universal life insurance product that allows
the policyholder to allocate a portion of their account balance into an index account that provides a return consistent with the S&P 500 index performance over the following year, subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums. Individual
Life’s profits from universal life insurance are impacted by mortality and expense margins and net interest spread.







Marketing and Distribution



Third Party Distribution.Our individual life products are offered through a
variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, general agencies and producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and
support estate and wealth transfer planning.



Prudential Agents.Our Prudential Agents distribute Prudential variable, term and universal life insurance,
variable and fixed annuities and investment products with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options as well as selected insurance and investment products manufactured by others primarily to customers in the U.S. mass and mass affluent
markets, as well as small business owners. Prudential Agents also have access to non-proprietary property and casualty products under distribution agreements entered into with the purchasers of our property and casualty insurance operations, which
we sold in 2003, and other third party providers. While these agreements provide an opportunity for additional compensation to the Individual Life segment based on multi-year profitability of the products sold, we do not expect the profit from these
arrangements to be significant in the future. The number of Prudential Agents was 2,615, 2,529 and 2,471 at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



As mentioned above, the Individual Life segment distributes products offered by the Annuities and Asset Management segments and is paid a
market rate by these businesses to distribute their products. These payments may be more or less than the associated distribution costs, and any profit or loss is included in the results of the Individual Life segment.



Underwriting and Pricing



Underwriters generally follow detailed policies and
procedures to assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products based on the age, gender, health and occupation of the applicant and amount of insurance requested. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life
insurance on expected death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We use assumptions for mortality, interest rates, expenses, policy persistency, premium payment patterns and separate account fund performance as well as the
level, cost and availability of financing certain statutory reserves in pricing policies. Deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions may adversely or positively impact the profitability of our products.



Reserves



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future
policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations for in force life policies. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, the cost of
financing certain statutory reserves, as well as margins for adverse deviation. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. For variable and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts, we
establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost of insurance charges.



Reinsurance



The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of
managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product profitability. On policies sold since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk assumed. As of the end of 2012, the maximum exposure we retained for
new business was $30 million on single life policies and $35 million on second-to-die policies. However, in 2013, we prospectively reduced this maximum exposure limit to $20 million on both single life and second-to-die policies. Over time we have
accumulated policies with higher retained exposure which may result in earnings volatility. In addition, certain transactions, such as assumed reinsurance or acquisitions of inforce contracts, may cause us to temporarily or permanently exceed these
limits on an aggregate basis. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of counterparty
risk to mitigate this exposure.







Group Insurance



Our Group Insurance segment manufactures and distributes a
full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. We also
sell accidental death and dismemberment and other ancillary coverage, and provide plan administrative services in connection with our insurance coverages.



Competition



We compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in the U.S. markets, and are a top provider of both
group life and disability insurance. Due to the maturity of the markets in which we compete, competition is primarily based on price, strong brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial stability and range of product
offerings. Because of the large number of competitors, pricing is competitive. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations, affinity groups or other organizations with over 10,000 insured individuals. We have a strong portfolio
of products and the capability to offer customized benefit solutions, providing opportunities for continuing stabilized premiums and growth. Employee-paid coverage has become increasingly important as employers attempt to control costs and shift
benefit decisions/funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the workplace. Our profitability is dependent in part on penetration in the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation
rates.



Products



Group Life Insurance.Our
portfolio of group life insurance products consists of employer-paid (basic) and employee-paid (voluntary) coverages, including basic and supplemental term life insurance for employees, optional term life insurance for employees’ dependents and
group universal life insurance. We also offer group variable universal life insurance, basic and voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance and business travel accident insurance. Many of our employee-paid coverages allow employees to
retain their coverage when they change employers or retire.



Group Disability Insurance.We offer short- and long-term group disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury, as well as short- and
long-term disability management, and absence management services. Disability benefits are limited to a portion, generally 50% to 70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Short-term disability generally provides a
weekly benefit for three to six months, while long-term disability benefits are paid monthly, following a waiting period (usually 90 or 180 days, during which short-term disability may be provided) and generally continue until the insured reaches
normal retirement age.



Group Corporate-, Bank-
and Trust-owned Life Insurance.Our group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance products are group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts, and are typically used by large corporations to
fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees.



Marketing and Distribution



Group Insurance has its own dedicated sales force that is organized around products and market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefits brokers and consultants.



Underwriting and Pricing



We follow standard underwriting practices and procedures,
and have developed standard rating systems for each product line based on Company or industry experience. We assess the risk profile of prospective insured groups; however, certain voluntary products or coverages may require underwriting on an
individual basis. We are not obligated to accept any policy applications, and may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.







We base pricing of group insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits and other
costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses and persistency, depending upon the specific product features. For certain policies, we determine premiums on a retrospective experience-rated basis, in which
case the group contractholder bears some of the risk, or receives some of the benefit, associated with claim experience fluctuations. For policies that are not eligible to receive experience-based refunds, our profitability is more subject to
fluctuations. In addition, we provide multiple year rate guarantees on many of our group contracts, which can also contribute to fluctuations in profitability.



Reserves



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these
reserves on actuarially-recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the U.S., which we modify to reflect our actual experience when appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims
incurred but not yet reported. We also establish a liability for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost of insurance charges, as
applicable.



Reinsurance



We use reinsurance to limit losses from large exposures, and
in response to client requests. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we remain liable. On a Company wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor concentration of counterparty
risk to mitigate this exposure.



International
Insurance Division



The International
Insurance division conducts its business through the International Insurance segment.



International Insurance



Our International Insurance segment manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products, including certain health products with fixed benefits. We provide these
products to the broad middle income market across Japan through multiple distribution channels including banks, independent agencies and Life Consultants, who are associated with our Gibraltar Life operations. We also provide similar products to the
mass affluent and affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other countries outside the U.S. through our Life Planner operations. We commenced sales in non-U.S. markets through our Life Planner operations, as follows: Japan, 1988; Taiwan, 1990; Italy,
1990; Korea, 1991; Brazil, 1998; Argentina, 1999; Poland, 2000; and Mexico, 2006. We continue to seek opportunities for expansion into high-growth markets in targeted countries.



For the year ended December 31, 2012, our Life Planner
operation in Japan and our Gibraltar Life operations represented 23% and 71%, respectively, of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the International Insurance segment, and in aggregate, represented 35% of the net premiums, policy
charges and fee income of the Financial Services Businesses, translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates.



In addition to the operations discussed above, we have a 26% interest in a joint venture in India, the maximum currently allowed by
regulation in India. We also had an investment in China through a consortium of investors that held a minority interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co, Ltd. Through December 31, 2012, this consortium sold approximately 85% of its
holdings in China Pacific Group and sold its remaining interest in 2013.



We manage each operation on a stand-alone basis with local management and sales teams, with oversight by senior executives based in Asia, Latin America and Newark, New Jersey. Each operation has its own
marketing, underwriting, claims, investment management, and actuarial functions. In addition, significant portions of the general account investment portfolios are managed by certain of our international investment subsidiaries and, to







a lesser extent, by our domestic asset management subsidiaries. Operations generally invest in local currency securities, primarily bonds issued by the local government or its agencies. In our
larger operations, we have more diversified portfolios that also include U.S. dollar-denominated investments in large part to support products issued in U.S. dollars and as part of our foreign exchange hedging strategy. In addition, our Gibraltar
Life operations have Australian dollar-denominated investments that support products issued in that currency.



Acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses



On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the
acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of the “Star and Edison Businesses” pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. The Star and Edison companies
were merged into Gibraltar Life on January 1, 2012. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Competition



The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are mature and pricing is competitive. Rather than competing based on price, we generally
compete on the basis of customer service, including our needs-based approach to selling, the quality and diversity of our distribution capabilities, and our financial strength. The aging population throughout Asia creates an increasing need for
product innovation, introducing insurance products which allow for savings and income as the population transitions to retirement. The ability to sell through multiple and complementary distribution channels is a competitive advantage. However,
competition for sales personnel, as well as access to third party distribution channels, is intense.



Products



Our international insurance operations have a diversified product mix, primarily denominated in local currencies and emphasizing death protection while supporting the growing demand for retirement and
savings products. We offer various traditional whole life, term, endowment (which provide for payment on the earlier of death or maturity) and retirement income life insurance products that combine an insurance protection element similar to that of
term life policies with a retirement income feature, including our single premium reduced death benefit whole life product. This product is sold on a simplified underwriting basis and pays a lower death benefit in the first five policy years. This
product has a higher savings component than a recurring premium whole life insurance product and may be more vulnerable to lapses if interest rates increase. Premiums associated with this product represented approximately 10% of the Company’s
total consolidated revenue for 2012.



In most of
our operations, we also offer certain health products with fixed benefits, some of which include a high savings element, as well as annuity products, which are primarily represented by U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated fixed annuities in our
Gibraltar Life operations. Sales and surrenders of non-yen products are sensitive to foreign currency relationships which are impacted by, among other things, the comparative interest rates in the respective countries. Our annuity products impose a
market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity.



Marketing and Distribution



Our International Insurance segment distributes its products through multiple distribution channels. This includes two captive agent models, Life Planners and Life Consultants, as well as bank and
independent agency third party distribution channels. For additional information on headcount for our captive agents, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for
Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division.”



Life Planners.Our Life Planner model differentiates us from competitors in the countries where we do business by focusing on selling protection-oriented life insurance
products on a needs basis to mass affluent and affluent customers, as well as retirement-oriented products to small businesses. We believe that our recruiting and selection process, training programs and compensation package are key to the Life
Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent productivity and policy persistency than our local competitors. The attributes considered when recruiting new Life Planners include but







are not limited to: University/College degree, no prior life insurance sales experience, a minimum of two years of sales or sales management experience, and a pattern of job stability and
success. The number of Life Planners as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 7,058 and 6,792, respectively.



Life Consultants.Our Life Consultants are the proprietary distribution force for products offered by our
Gibraltar Life operations. Their focus is to provide individual protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Consultant operation is based on a variable
compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Consultants as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 11,333 and 12,791, respectively.



Bank Distribution
Channel.Our Gibraltar Life operation has been selling its products through banks since 2006. Bank distribution channel sales primarily consist of products intended to provide savings features and premature death
protection, such as our yen-denominated single premium reduced death benefit whole life product, and retirement income as well as fixed annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars. Recent sales in this channel have been
highly concentrated in single pay or limited pay contracts, including our single premium reduced death benefit whole life product discussed above, which tend to be larger policies and therefore have higher average premiums per policy.



Historically, a significant portion of our sales in Japan
through our bank channel distribution were derived through a single Japanese mega-bank. More recently, however, certain of our other bank channel relationships are making an increasing contribution to sales growth and we have expanded our number of
partnerships. We now have relationships with Japan’s four largest banks and we continue to explore opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through this channel.



Independent Agency Distribution
Channel.Our independent agency channel sells protection products and high cash value products for retirement benefits through the business market and sells a variety of other products including protection, medical and
fixed annuity products through the individual market. Our focus is to maintain a diverse mix of independent agency relationships including accounting firms, corporate agencies and independent agencies with a balanced focus on individual and business
markets. We differentiate ourselves by providing quality service to producers in this distribution channel.



Underwriting and Pricing



Our International Insurance segment is subject to substantial local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each
International Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse
selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with each operation’s reinsurers.



Pricing of similar products is generally consistent in each of our countries. The profitability of our products is impacted by differences
between actual mortality and morbidity experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. However, we anticipate over the long-term to achieve the aggregate mortality and morbidity
levels reflected in the assumptions used in pricing.



Reserves



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these
reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as margins for adverse deviation. For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well as annuity
products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premiums collected plus interest or investment results credited less surrenders, and charges for cost of insurance and administration fees.







Reinsurance



International Insurance reinsures portions of its insurance
risks, primarily mortality, with both selected third party reinsurers and Prudential Insurance. For example, International Insurance buys catastrophe reinsurance that covers multiple deaths from a single occurrence in some of our insurance
operations and has a coinsurance agreement with Prudential Insurance for the U.S. dollar-denominated business in our Japanese Life Planner insurance operations. If a third party reinsurer is, for some reason, unable to meet its obligations, we
remain liable. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.



Corporate and Other



Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after
allocations to our business segments, and divested businesses except for those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Corporate Operations



Corporate operations consist primarily of:
(1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other
tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other
employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred
compensation, and costs related to certain contingencies; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual
settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) results related to a life insurance joint venture and an asset management joint venture in China; (8) results related to our Capital Protection
Framework; and (9) the impact of transactions with and between other segments.



Corporate operations include results related to our Capital Protection Framework, which includes, among other initiatives, the following:



•Our capital hedge program which broadly addresses the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress
scenarios, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital—Capital Protection Framework.”



•The capital consequences of our decision to manage the interest rate risk associated with various operations of the Financial Services Businesses by
holding capital against a portion of the interest rate exposure rather than fully hedging the risk.



•The capital consequences associated with certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our living benefit hedging program, which
is described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.” We maintain access to on-balance
sheet capital and contingent sources of capital that are available to meet capital needs that may arise related to this hedging program.



We assess the composition of these hedging programs on an ongoing basis, and we may change them from time to time based on our evaluation
of the Company’s risk position or other factors.



Divested
Businesses



Divested Businesses reflect the
results of the following businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down, that did not qualify for “discontinued operations”







accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We exclude these results from our adjusted operating income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for an explanation of adjusted operating income.



Long-Term Care.In July 2012, we announced our decision to cease sales of group long-term care insurance
reflecting the challenging economics of the long-term care market including the continued low interest rate environment as well as our desire to focus our resources on our core group life and disability businesses. We discontinued sales of group
long-term care products effective August 1, 2012, or a later date as may be required by specific state law. We notified our clients of our intent to continue to accept enrollments on existing group long-term care contracts through June 30,
2013 or later as required by contractual provisions. In March 2012, we discontinued sales of our individual long-term care products.



We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations. We base these
reserves on actuarially-recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the U.S., which we modify to reflect our actual experience when appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid and claims incurred
but not yet reported. We also include interest rate assumptions which are based on actual and expected net investment returns. Our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits related to these products have factored in our best estimate of
the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. Our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy
liability increases which could be material.



Residential Real Estate Brokerage Franchise and Relocation Services.In 2011, we sold our real estate
brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. (“Brookfield”), but retained ownership of a financing subsidiary with debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage
franchises. Also, we agreed to provide certain Brookfield affiliates with transitional financing for the transferred relocation services through three credit facilities, which were fully repaid and terminated in 2012.



Financial Advisory.In 2008, we
announced our intention to exit our financial advisory business, which consisted of our investment in a retail securities brokerage and clearing operations joint venture which was sold on December 31, 2009. Certain expenses relating to the
businesses we originally contributed to the joint venture were retained, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.



Property and Casualty Insurance.In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies to Liberty
Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual. We have reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks that Liberty Mutual did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our remaining
property and casualty obligations under these reinsurance contracts based on the current information available.



Individual Health and Disability Insurance.We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992,
and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical policies. Most of our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major
medical policies, the 1997 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act guarantees renewal. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these
policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been sufficient to pay claims. We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future obligations.



Other.In addition to the
businesses described above, the results of Divested Businesses also include the following:



•In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities’ activities and subsequently exited the lead-managed equity underwriting business
for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business.



•We have not actively engaged in the assumed life reinsurance market in the United States since the early 1990s; however, we remain subject to mortality
risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies







under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. In 2000, we sold our interest in Prudential of America Life Insurance Company, or PALIC, but remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed
individual life insurance policies sold by PALIC under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. We establish actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits consistent with our methodologies for yearly renewable term life policies, which
are less than the net amount at risk. As of December 31, 2012, the net amount at risk was $17 million.



•In addition to the above, we indemnified the purchaser of PALIC for certain liabilities with respect to claims related to sales practices or market
conduct issues arising from operations prior to the sale.



Discontinued Operations



Discontinued operations reflect the results of the following businesses which qualified for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP:



•We discontinued our Mexican asset management operations in the second quarter of 2009 and subsequently sold these operations in the fourth quarter of
2009;



•We discontinued our Korean asset management operations in the first quarter of 2010 and subsequently sold these operations in the second quarter of
2010;



•We discontinued our global commodities operations in the second quarter of 2011 and subsequently sold these operations in the third quarter of 2011;
and



•Direct real estate investments that are sold or held for sale may require “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Closed Block Business





As discussed in Note 12 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total
dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed may be available for distribution over time to Closed Block
policyholders as part of policyholder dividends unless offset by future Closed Block experience that is less favorable than expected. These cash flows will not be available to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established
for any excess cash flows. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net
realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets of the Closed Block Business.







Our strategy for the Closed Block Business is to maintain the Closed Block as required by
our Plan of Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance,
to enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The long-term risks associated with the Closed Block Business are 90% reinsured (subject to certain caps) including, as of
January 1, 2013, 17% reinsured by two wholly-owned subsidiaries. We also reinsure 90% of the short-term risks associated with the Closed Block Business to another wholly-owned subsidiary. Reinsurance of the Closed Block Business is reported in
the Corporate and Other operations within the Financial Services Businesses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on the
Closed Block reinsurance arrangements, as well as Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting for these reinsurance arrangements.



Intangible and Intellectual Property



We capture and protect the innovation in
our financial services products by applying for federal business method patents and implementing trade secret controls, as appropriate. We also use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign servicemarks. We believe that the goodwill associated
with many of our patents and trade secrets, and the goodwill associated with many of our servicemarks, particularly
“Prudential®,” “Prudential Financial®,” the Prudential logo and our “Rock” symbol, are significant competitive assets in the U.S.



On April 20, 2004, we entered into a servicemark and trademark agreement with Prudential plc of the United
Kingdom, with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” Under the agreement, there are restrictions on our use of the “Prudential”
name and mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our “Rock” symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not
materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally.



Competition



In each of our businesses, we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad. Many of our competitors are large and
well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or
credit ratings than we do. We compete in our businesses based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of
distribution and distribution arrangements, price, risk management capabilities, capital management capabilities, and financial strength and credit ratings. The relative importance of these factors varies across our products, services and the
markets we serve. The competitive landscape is, and will be, impacted by the various frameworks applied to us and our competitors.



Competition for personnel in our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, Prudential Agents, Life
Planners, Life Consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. In the ordinary course of business, we lose personnel from time to time in whom we have invested significant training. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and
retain our insurance agents and employees and to increase their productivity. Competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense.



Additional factors affecting the competitive landscape for our products and services are discussed within the descriptions of our business
segments above.







Regulation



Overview



Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is
primarily to protect our customers and the overall financial system and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more
restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The financial market dislocations in recent years produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable
to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act discussed below.



Regulation Affecting Prudential Financial



Prudential Financial is the holding company for all of our operations and is subject to regulation as an insurance holding company under
applicable insurance laws. On October 31, 2012, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) approved Prudential Financial’s application to deregister as a savings and loan holding company and Prudential Financial
is no longer subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. As a company with publicly-traded securities, Prudential Financial is subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to public companies, including the
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate
governance matters.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. Dodd-Frank directs government agencies and bodies to conduct certain studies and promulgate regulations implementing the law, a
process that is underway and expected to continue. We cannot predict with any certainty the results of the studies or the requirements of the regulations recently or not yet adopted or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial
markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital.



Key aspects of Dodd-Frank’s impact on us include:



•Dodd-Frank established a Financial Stability Oversight Council (“Council”) which is authorized to subject non-bank financial companies such
as Prudential Financial to stricter prudential standards and to supervision by the FRB (a “Designated Financial Company”) if the Council determines that material financial distress at the company or the scope of the company’s
activities could pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. On October 19, 2012, Prudential Financial received notice that it is under consideration by the Council for a proposed determination that it should be designated as a
Designated Financial Company. The Council may determine to issue to Prudential Financial a written notice of determination that it is a Designated Financial Company, in which event we would be entitled to request a nonpublic evidentiary hearing
before the Council and further court review. We cannot predict whether Prudential Financial or a subsidiary will ultimately be designated as a Designated Financial Company.



If we are determined to be a Designated Financial Company, we would become subject to stricter prudential
standards that are the subject of ongoing rule-making, including proposed stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management
interlock prohibitions and a requirement to submit to the FRB (and periodically update) a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. In December 2011, the FRB published for comment proposed rules implementing
certain of these standards. Under the proposed rules, a Designated Financial Company would be required to calculate its minimum risk-based capital and leverage requirements as if it were a bank holding company in accordance with capital requirements
published by the FRB for bank holding companies (as further discussed below) and be subject to a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4%, a total risk-based







capital ratio of 8% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. However, the proposed rules indicate that the FRB may consider that adjustments to such requirements may be appropriate with respect to
Designated Financial Companies. Designated Financial Companies of our size would be required to submit annual capital plans to the FRB demonstrating their ability to satisfy the required capital ratios under baseline and stressed conditions. The FRB
has indicated that it intends to issue, in addition to such capital requirements, a proposal requiring a risk-based capital surcharge for such companies, or a subset thereof. The proposed rules also include enhanced liquidity requirements, which
would require Designated Financial Companies to maintain a liquidity buffer of highly liquid unencumbered assets sufficient to meet projected cash flows under required stress-testing, and to establish and maintain a contingency funding plan and
concentration and other exposure limits to address liquidity needs and risk. Under the proposed rules, a Designated Financial Company would be required to limit its credit exposure to any unaffiliated entity (including sovereign issuers) to no more
than 25% of its consolidated capital stock and surplus or to no more than 10% with respect to any “major counterparty,” which includes any Designated Financial Company or bank holding company with more than $500 billion of total
consolidated assets.





•In 2012, the FRB published a number of notices of proposed rulemaking that would substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to
bank holding companies compared to the current general risk-based capital rules. The proposals include provisions affecting the calculation of regulatory capital ratios and the use of credit ratings for valuation purposes and implementing the
Collins Amendment’s requirement that the current general risk based capital rules serve as a “floor” for specified institutions. Although these proposals do not address Designated Financial Companies, the FRB has indicated that the
proposals will become a key part of the enhanced prudential standards for covered companies, including Designated Financial Companies, described above. In addition, regulations that have been adopted to date include a modification to the general
risk-based capital rules in order to address appropriate capital requirements for low-risk assets held by non-bank financial companies such as Prudential Financial, and would permit flexibility in the application of certain capital requirements
imposed by Dodd-Frank to non-bank financial companies. We cannot predict what capital regulations the FRB will promulgate under these authorizations, either generally or as applicable to Prudential Financial were it to become a Designated Financial
Company.



•If designated as a Designated Financial Company, we will be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the FRB to determine whether, on a
consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. If so designated, we would be required to submit to annual stress tests conducted by the FRB and to conduct internal annual and
semi-annual stress tests to be provided to the FRB. Under final rules published by the FRB in October 2012, Designated Financial Companies must comply with these requirements the calendar year after the year in which a company first becomes subject







to the FRB’s minimum regulatory capital requirements discussed above, although the FRB has the discretion to accelerate or extend the effective date. The final rules require baseline,
adverse and severely adverse scenarios to be used. The FRB will provide the scenarios to be used in the internal annual stress tests, although companies will be required to develop their own scenarios for the internal semi-annual stress tests. The
FRB has indicated that it may tailor the application of the stress test requirements to Designated Financial Companies on an individual basis or by category. Summary results of such stress tests would be required to be publicly disclosed. We cannot
predict the manner in which the stress tests would ultimately be designed, conducted and disclosed were Prudential Financial to become a Designated Financial Company or whether the results of such designation will cause us to alter our business
practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength.



•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in. We cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



•If Prudential Financial is designated as a Designated Financial Company, we could be subject, pursuant to future FRB rulemaking, to additional capital
requirements for, and quantitative limits on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds.





•





•Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director appointed by the
Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the FIO director performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Council
and making recommendations to the Council regarding insurers (including the Company) to be named as Designated Financial Companies and coordinating with the FRB in the application of any stress tests required to be conducted with respect to an
insurer. The FIO director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by
the states.







•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code,
administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination (with the approval of the FIO director if—as is true with respect to Prudential Financial—the largest United States subsidiary is an insurer) that the company is in default or in
danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. Were Prudential Financial subject to such a proceeding, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries would remain subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state law,
although the FDIC has discretion and authority to initiate resolution of an insurer under state law if its state insurance regulator has not filed the appropriate judicial action within 60 days of a systemic risk determination. However, our
non-insurance U.S. subsidiaries engaged in financial activities would be subject to any special orderly liquidation process so commenced.



•Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith. In
January 2011, the SEC staff issued a study that recommends that the SEC adopt a uniform federal fiduciary standard of conduct for registered broker-dealers and investment advisers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about
securities.



We cannot predict
with any certainty whether these possible outcomes will occur or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.



International Regulatory Initiatives





The foregoing requirements and developments could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within and outside the U.S. The
possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential Financial “group” of companies also exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.



Other U.S. Federal Regulation



U.S. Tax Legislation



The American Taxpayer’s Relief Act (the
“Act”) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. The Act permanently extended the reduced Bush-era individual tax rates for certain taxpayers and permanently increased those rates for higher income taxpayers. Higher tax rates increase
the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance. The Act also made permanent the current $5 million (indexed for inflation) per person estate tax exemption and increased the top estate tax rate from 35% to 40%.
In addition, the Act extended various business tax provisions through the end of 2013 that had expired at the end of 2011. One such







provision provides tax deferral for investment income earned by a foreign insurance operation until the income is repatriated to the U.S. If this provision had not been extended, the Company
would have been subject to current U.S. tax on investment income earned by its foreign insurance subsidiaries.



Notwithstanding the passage of the Act, there continues to be uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes, both for individuals and corporations.
There continues to be discussions in Washington concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Reducing or eliminating certain expenditures
could make our products less attractive to customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products. However, even in the absence of overall tax reform,
the large federal deficit increases the possibility that Congress will raise revenue by enacting legislation to increase the taxes paid by individuals and/or corporations. This can be accomplished by either raising rates or otherwise changing the
tax rules.



Current U.S. federal income tax laws
generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under
a life insurance contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance
products.



Additionally, legislative or regulatory
changes could also impact the amount of taxes that we pay, thereby affecting our consolidated net income. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through guidance the methodology to be followed in
determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax
expense and expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. For the last several years, the revenue proposals included in the Obama Administration’s budgets (the Administration’s Revenue Proposals) included a
proposal that would change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through guidance or legislation, could increase actual tax expense
and reduce the Company’s consolidated net income.



Furthermore, the Administration’s Revenue Proposals also included items that would change the method by which U.S. multinationals claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for
interest expense that is allocable to foreign source income.



For additional discussion of possible tax legislative and regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”



Proposed Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee



The Administration’s Revenue Proposal includes a proposal that would impose a Financial Crisis
Responsibility Fee, or FCRF, on certain financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, including the Company. The amount of the FCRF that would be imposed upon the Company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into
law, is unclear, but could be substantial.



ERISA



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions.
Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and
prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest. ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal
penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of
businesses providing products and services to







ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which
transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



USA Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001, enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and
financial transparency laws applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in
identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different, conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to
identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation
and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Holding Company Regulation



Prudential Financial is subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which
currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register
with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the
insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department.



Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance
companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control
of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more
of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential
Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or
seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to
state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state.



Currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of regulation of insurance
holding companies (such as Prudential Financial). The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, has promulgated model laws for adoption in the United States that would provide for “group wide” supervision of Prudential
Financial as an insurance holding company in addition to the current regulation of Prudential Financial’s insurance subsidiaries. In addition, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors, or IAIS, is developing a model framework for
the regulation of internationally active insurance groups that also contemplates “group wide supervision” across national boundaries. While the timing of their adoption and content will vary by jurisdiction, we have identified the
following areas of focus in these model laws: (1) uniform standards for insurer corporate governance; (2) group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies; (3) adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for
group-wide risks; and (4) additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. At this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens
these requirements would impose on Prudential Financial if adopted.



In 2012, Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB, (“PB&T”) limited its operations to trust services. On October 31, 2012, the FRB approved Prudential Financial’s application to
deregister as a savings and loan holding company









Insurance Operations



State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions
monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance regulatory authority is the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by
the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and
state tax laws.



State Insurance Regulation



State insurance authorities have broad
administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: licensing to transact business; licensing agents; admittance of assets to statutory surplus; regulating premium rates for certain insurance products; approving
policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices; establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; regulating the type,
amounts and valuations of investments permitted and other matters; and regulating reinsurance transactions, including the role of captive reinsurers.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments
everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Our U.S. insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with
accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments.



State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once
every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In February 2013, the New Jersey insurance regulator, along with the insurance
regulators of Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa substantially completed a coordinated risk focused financial examination for the five year period ended December 31, 2011 for all of our U.S. domestic insurance companies as part of the
normal five year examination and found no material deficiencies as of the date of this filing.



Financial Regulation



Dividend Payment Limitations.The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount of
dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other U.S. insurance companies. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.







Risk-Based Capital.In order to enhance the regulation of
insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. The
risk-based capital, or RBC, calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In
general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying
risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy.



Insurance Reserves and Regulatory
Capital.State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when
considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our contractual obligations and related expenses.



The NAIC has developed a principles-based reserving approach for life insurance products. The timing and the effect of these changes are
still uncertain since the changes have to be adopted by each state and the approach can be further modified prior to adoption.



Solvency Modernization Initiative.State insurance regulators have focused attention on U.S. insurance
solvency regulation pursuant to the NAIC’s “Solvency Modernization Initiative.” The Solvency Modernization Initiative focuses on the entire U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance
companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory
accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. This initiative has resulted in the recent adoption of the NAIC Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require
larger insurers to, at least annually beginning in 2015, assess the adequacy of its and its group’s risk management and current and future solvency position. We cannot predict the additional capital requirements or compliance costs these
requirements may impose.



IRIS
Tests.The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance
companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. Generally, regulators will begin to investigate or monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside usual ranges for four or
more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. None of our U.S. insurance companies is currently subject to regulatory scrutiny based on these ratios.



Market Conduct Regulation



State insurance laws and regulations include numerous
provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally
enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.



Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments



Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of
insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. For the
years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid approximately $2.4 million, $3.6 million and $0.8 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. Many states offer a reimbursement of such
assessments in the form of credits against future years’ premium taxes. In addition, in 2011, we agreed to make a voluntary contribution of $20 million to an insurance industry solvency fund, related to Executive Life Insurance Company of New
York. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of any







future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established reserves that we believe are adequate for future assessments relating to insurance companies that are
currently subject to insolvency proceedings.



Federal and
State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations



Our variable life insurance products, as well as our variable annuity and mutual fund products, generally are “securities” within the meaning of federal securities laws, that may be required to
be registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under “—Investment Products and Asset Management Operations”
and “—Securities and Commodities Regulation” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products.



Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are “securities” within the
meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may
affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.



Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations



Our investment products and services are subject to federal and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and
regulations. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments and the United States Department of Labor are the principal U.S. regulators that regulate our asset management operations. For a discussion of
Dodd-Frank’s impact on our investment products and asset management operations, see “—Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” above.



Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled
investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being registered under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are
qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are subject to federal and state regulation. In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as
amended. Our Prudential Agents and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation
and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those individuals. The federal securities laws could also require re-approval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds,
including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control.



Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and
administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to
discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with terminating or ongoing pension plans.



Securities and Commodities Regulation



We have subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, investment
advisers, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisers. The SEC, the CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the
principal regulators of these subsidiaries.







Our broker-dealer and commodities affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation
by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA and the NFA. Self-regulatory organizations conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their members. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have
regulatory and oversight authority over our registered broker-dealers. Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the securities business, including
sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, financial reporting and the conduct of
directors, officers and employees. The SEC, CFTC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure,
fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer, an investment adviser or commodities firm or its employees. Our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to
federal net capital requirements that may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Privacy Regulation





Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a
property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending business. In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage
against such property. In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, we may be liable, in certain circumstances, as an “owner” or
“operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us. We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us, although Federal legislation
provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met. However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to
CERCLA liability. Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments prior to taking title to real estate, whether through
acquisition for investment, or through foreclosure on real estate collateralizing mortgages that we hold. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking these environmental assessments
and complying with our internal procedures, and as a result, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.







Unclaimed Property Laws



We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and
other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 23
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Regulation of our
International Businesses





In addition, our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection
with workers’ associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, dividend limitations, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out
of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to joint
venture partner risks and limits our array of potential remedies.



Our international insurance operations are principally supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and Financial Services
Agency. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Poland and have insurance operations in India and China through joint ventures. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically
oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance product approvals, sales practices, claims payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among other
items. In some jurisdictions, for certain products, regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting
requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses.



In order to monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory
authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators.
These solvency margins are used by regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The solvency margin ratios in certain jurisdictions are
required to be disclosed to the public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital
inadequacy.



The Financial Services Agency, the
insurance regulator in Japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin requirements that revised risk charges for certain assets and changed the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital is calculated. These changes were
effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012. We anticipate further changes in solvency regulation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction based on regulatory







developments in the U.S., the European Union, and recommendations by an international standard setting body for the insurance industry, as well as regulatory requirements for those companies
deemed to be systemically important financial institutions (similar to Designated Financial Companies under Dodd-Frank).



The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of
dividends that they can pay to shareholders. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the ability of our international subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Our international operations are also supervised primarily by
regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. We operate investment-related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Mexico, India, Germany and Singapore, and participate in
investment-related joint ventures in Brazil, Italy and China. These businesses may provide investment-related products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds, and separately managed accounts. The regulatory authorities for
these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of investment product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures, securities, commodities and
related laws, among other items. In some cases, our international investment operations are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations.



Our international businesses may also be subject to U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S. companies such as the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances
and we may be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Furthermore, certain of our businesses, particularly those with operations in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), are also
subject to the U.K.’s Anti-Bribery Law, which governs interactions with both governmental and private commercial entities.



Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their
proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the
results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, substantially similar to such laws in the U.S., all licensed life insurers in Japan are required to
be members and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation, or PPC. These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid approximately $31 million,
$29 million and $16 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws.



Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they
operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could impact the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products.



In 2010, Taiwan reduced the corporate tax rate from 20% to 17% for tax years beginning in or after 2010. On November 30, 2011, Japan
enacted the 2011 corporate tax reform that decreased the national corporate tax rate from 30% to 28.05%, after taking into account the special reconstruction corporate tax, for tax years beginning on or after April, 1, 2012, and to 25.5% for tax
years beginning on or after April 1, 2015. The carryforward period for net operating losses in Japan was increased from 7 to 9 years. Under the new legislation net operating losses can only offset 80% of a company’s taxable income. On
December 31, 2011 Korea rescinded the corporate tax decrease to 22% that was to be effective in 2012. Therefore, the Korean corporate tax rate remains at 24.2% for 2012 and thereafter.



Our international operations are often subject to value added tax and similar taxes in the countries in which
they operate. On August 10, 2012, Japan enacted legislation to increase the 5% consumption tax to 8% in April 2014 and to 10% in October 2015. An increase to such tax rates could reduce our consolidated net income.







On April 27, 2012, the Japan National Tax Authority (NTA) reduced the corporate tax
deductibility of premiums paid for cancer products. Such a change has resulted in a decrease in the sale of such products in Japan.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we had 48,498 employees and sales associates, including 29,547 located outside of the U.S. We believe our
relations with our employees and sales associates are satisfactory.



Available Information



Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained through the SEC’s
website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to
the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



