ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately $667 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2009, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin
America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. We offer
these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey.



The businesses of Prudential Financial are separated into the
Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and International Insurance
and Investments division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block described below and certain related assets and liabilities.



Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock
outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the
performance of the Closed Block Business.



Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses



Demutualization



On
December 18, 2001, our date of demutualization, Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential
Financial. The demutualization was carried out under Prudential Insurance’s Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 15, 2000, as amended, which we refer to as the Plan of Reorganization. On the date of demutualization, eligible
policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the
extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance.



On the date of demutualization, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of its Common Stock, as well as the sale of shares of Class B Stock, a separate class of common stock, through a
private placement. In addition, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we
refer to as the IHC debt. A portion of the IHC debt was insured by a bond insurer. Concurrent with the demutualization, various subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance were reorganized, becoming direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial.



The Plan of Reorganization required us to
establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations of holders of







participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block for future policy dividends after demutualization by allocating assets that will be used for payment of
benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. The Plan of Reorganization provided that Prudential Insurance may, with the prior consent
of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. In 2005, we completed the process of arranging reinsurance of the Closed Block.
The Closed Block is 90% reinsured, including 17% by a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial.



Separation of the Businesses



The businesses of Prudential Financial are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. For a discussion of the operating results of the
Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and
Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and International Insurance and Investments division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. See “—Financial Services Businesses” below for a
more detailed discussion of the divisions comprising the Financial Services Businesses. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block and certain other assets and liabilities, including the IHC debt. See
“—Closed Block Business” below for additional discussion of the Closed Block Business. We refer to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business collectively as the Businesses.



The following diagram reflects the allocation of Prudential
Financial’s consolidated assets and liabilities between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business:







There is no legal separation of
the two Businesses. The foregoing allocation of assets and liabilities does not require Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance, any of their subsidiaries or the Closed Block to transfer any specific assets or liabilities to a separate legal
entity. Financial results of the Closed Block Business, including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. In addition, any net losses of the
Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, the Class B Stock, will reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally available for dividends on the Common Stock. Accordingly, you should read the financial
information for the Financial Services Businesses together with the consolidated financial information of Prudential Financial.







The Common Stock reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Class
B Stock reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. However, the market value of the Common Stock may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses.



In order to separately reflect the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed
Block Business since the date of demutualization, we have allocated all our assets and liabilities and earnings between the two Businesses, and we account for them as if they were separate legal entities. All assets and liabilities of Prudential
Financial and its subsidiaries not included in the Closed Block Business constitute the assets and liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate
to operate that Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of:



•within Prudential Insurance, the Closed Block Assets, Surplus and Related Assets (see below), deferred policy acquisition costs and other assets in
respect of the policies included in the Closed Block and, with respect to liabilities, the Closed Block Liabilities;



•within Prudential Holdings, LLC, the principal amount of the IHC debt, related unamortized debt issuance costs and hedging activities, and a guaranteed
investment contract; and



•within Prudential Financial, dividends received from Prudential Holdings, LLC, and reinvestment proceeds thereof, and other liabilities of Prudential
Financial, in each case attributable to the Closed Block Business.





On the date of demutualization, the majority of the net proceeds
from the issuances of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt was allocated to our Financial Services Businesses. Also, on the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC distributed $1.218 billion of the net proceeds of the IHC debt to Prudential
Financial to use for general corporate purposes in the Financial Services Businesses. Prudential Holdings, LLC deposited $437 million of the net proceeds of the IHC debt in a debt service coverage account maintained in the Financial Services
Businesses that, together with reinvested earnings thereon, constitutes a source of payment and security for the IHC debt. The remainder of the net proceeds, $72 million, was used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the
bond insurance related to the IHC debt. To the extent we use the debt service coverage account to service payments with respect to the IHC debt or to pay dividends to Prudential Financial for purposes of the Closed Block Business, a loan from the
Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business would be established. Such an inter-business loan would be repaid by the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses when earnings from the Closed Block Business replenish
funds in the debt service coverage account to a specified level. See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the IHC debt and the debt service coverage account.



We believe that the proceeds from the issuances of the Class B
Stock and IHC debt allocated to the Financial Services Businesses reflected capital in excess of that necessary to support the Closed Block Business and that the Closed Block Business as established has sufficient assets and cash flows to service
the IHC debt. The Closed Block Business was financially leveraged through the issuance of the IHC debt, and dividends on the







Class B Stock are subject to prior servicing of the IHC debt. It is expected that any inter-business loan referred to above will be repaid in full out of the Surplus and Related Assets, but not
the Closed Block Assets. Any such loan will be subordinated to the IHC debt.



The Financial Services Businesses will bear any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and, as discussed below, the consequences of certain potential adverse tax
determinations. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to indemnify the investors in those securities with respect to certain matters, and any cost of that indemnification would be borne by the Financial Services
Businesses.



Within the Closed Block Business, the
assets and cash flows attributable to the Closed Block accrue solely to the benefit of the Closed Block policyholders through policyholder dividends after payment of benefits, expenses and taxes. The Surplus and Related Assets accrue to the benefit
of the holders of Class B Stock. The earnings on, and distribution of, the Surplus and Related Assets over time will be the source or measure of payment of the interest and principal of the IHC debt and of dividends on the Class B Stock. The
earnings of the Closed Block are reported as part of the Closed Block Business, although no cash flows or assets of the Closed Block accrue to the benefit of the holders of Common Stock or Class B Stock. The Closed Block Assets are not available to
service interest or principal of the IHC debt or dividends on the Class B Stock.



Inter-Business Transfers and Allocation Policies



Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors has adopted certain policies with respect to inter-business transfers and accounting and tax
matters, including the allocation of earnings. Such policies are summarized below. In the future, the Board of Directors may modify, rescind or add to any of these policies. However, the decision of the Board of Directors to modify, rescind or add
to any of these policies is subject to the Board of Directors’ general fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed with the investors in the Class B Stock and the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most instances, the Board of Directors may not
change these policies without their consent.



Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers



The transactions permitted between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, subject to any required regulatory approvals and the contractual limitations noted above, include the following:



•The Closed Block Business may lend to the Financial Services Businesses, and the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business,
in each case on terms no less favorable to the Closed Block Business than comparable internal loans and only for cash management purposes in the ordinary course of business and on market terms pursuant to our internal short-term cash management
facility.



•Other transactions between the Closed Block and businesses outside of the Closed Block, including the Financial Services Businesses, are permitted if,
among other things, such transactions benefit the Closed Block, are at fair market value and do not exceed, in any calendar year, a specified formula amount.



•Capital contributions to Prudential Insurance may be for the benefit of either the Financial Services Businesses or the Closed Block Business and
assets of the Financial Services Businesses within Prudential Insurance may be transferred to the Closed Block Business within Prudential Insurance in the form of a loan which is subordinated to all existing obligations of the Closed Block Business
and on market terms.



•An inter-business loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business may be established to reflect usage of the net proceeds of
the IHC debt initially deposited in the debt service coverage account, and any reinvested earnings thereon, to pay debt service on the IHC debt or dividends to Prudential Financial for purposes of the Closed Block Business.



•In addition to the foregoing, the Financial Services Businesses may lend to the Closed Block Business, on either a subordinated or non-subordinated
basis, on market terms as may be approved by Prudential Financial.



•The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business may engage in such other transactions on market terms as may be approved by Prudential
Financial and, if applicable, Prudential Insurance.







•The Board of Directors has discretion to transfer assets of the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block, or use such assets for the benefit
of Closed Block policyholders, if it believes such transfer or usage is in the best interests of the Financial Services Businesses, and such transfer or usage may be made without requiring any repayment of the amounts transferred or used or the
payment of any other consideration from the Closed Block Business.



•Cash payments for administrative purposes from the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses are based on formulas that initially
approximated the actual expenses incurred by the Financial Services Businesses to provide such services based on insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Administrative expenses recorded by the Closed Block Business, and the
related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, utilizing the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Any difference in the cash
amount transferred and actual expenses incurred as reported under U.S. GAAP will be recorded, on an after-tax basis at the applicable current rate, as direct adjustments to the respective equity balances of the Closed Block Business and the
Financial Services Businesses, without the issuance of shares of either Business to the other Business. This direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to each class of common stock for earnings per share purposes. Internal investment
expenses recorded and paid by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under U.S. GAAP and in accordance with internal arrangements governing recordkeeping, bank fees, accounting and
reporting, asset allocation, investment policy and planning and analysis.



Accounting Policies



Accounting policies relating to the allocation of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses between the two Businesses include:



•All our assets, liabilities, equity and earnings are allocated between the two Businesses and accounted for as if the Businesses were separate legal
entities. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that Business. All remaining assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries constitute the assets and
liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses.



•For financial reporting purposes, revenues; administrative, overhead and investment expenses; taxes other than federal income taxes; and certain
commissions and commission-related expenses associated with the Closed Block Business are allocated between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Interest expense and routine maintenance and
administrative costs generated by the IHC debt are considered directly attributable to the Closed Block Business and are therefore allocated to the Closed Block Business, except as indicated below.



•Any transfers of funds between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses will typically be accounted for as either reimbursement
of expense, investment income, return of principal or a subordinated loan, except as described under “—Inter-Business Transactions and Transfers” above.



•The Financial Services Businesses will bear any expenses and liabilities from litigation affecting the Closed Block Policies and the consequences of
certain potential adverse tax determinations noted below. In connection with the sale of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, we agreed to indemnify the investors with respect to certain matters, and any such indemnification would be borne by the
Financial Services Businesses.



Tax Allocation and Tax Treatment



The Closed Block Business within each legal entity is treated as if it were a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. Accordingly, if the Closed Block Business has taxable income, it recognizes its share of income tax as if it were
a consolidated subsidiary of Prudential Financial. If the Closed Block Business has losses or credits, it recognizes a current income tax benefit.



If the Closed Block Business within any legal entity has taxable income, it pays its share of income tax in cash to the Financial Services
Businesses. If it has losses or credits, it receives its benefit in cash from the







Financial Services Businesses. If the losses or credits cannot be currently utilized in the consolidated federal income tax return of Prudential Financial for the year in which such losses or
credits arise, the Closed Block Business will receive the full benefit in cash, and the Financial Services Businesses will subsequently recover the payment at the time the losses or credits are actually utilized in computing estimated payments or in
the consolidated federal income tax return of Prudential Financial. Certain tax costs and benefits are determined under the Plan of Reorganization with respect to the Closed Block using statutory accounting rules that may give rise to tax costs or
tax benefits prior to the time that those costs or benefits are actually realized for tax purposes. If at any time the Closed Block Business is allocated any such tax cost or a tax benefit under the Plan of Reorganization that is not realized at
that same time under the relevant tax rules but will be realized in the future, the Closed Block Business will pay such tax cost or receive such tax benefit at that time, but it will be paid to or paid by the Financial Services Businesses. When such
tax cost or tax benefit is subsequently realized under the relevant tax rules, the tax cost or tax benefit will be allocated to the Financial Services Businesses.





Internal Short-Term Cash Management Facilities



The Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business participate in separate internal short-term cash management facilities, pursuant
to which they invest cash from securities lending and repurchase activities as well as certain trading and operating activities. The net funds invested in the facility are generally held in investments that are short-term, including mortgage- and
asset-backed securities. Each Business holds discrete ownership of its investments in separate facilities without affecting or being affected by the level of participation of the other Business. See Note 2 to the Supplemental Combining Financial
Information for additional information concerning our internal short-term cash management facilities.



Financial Services Businesses



The Financial Services Businesses is comprised of three divisions, containing seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division is comprised of the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division is comprised of the Individual Life and Group
Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division is comprised of the International Insurance and International Investments segments.



See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment of the Financial Services
Businesses.







U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division



The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments.



Individual Annuities





On June 1, 2006, we acquired the variable
annuity business of The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate, through a reinsurance transaction for $635 million of total consideration. Beginning June 1, 2006, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the results of operations of the
acquired variable annuity business have been included in our consolidated financial statements. The acquisition increased our scale and third party distribution capabilities in the U.S., including access to the Allstate-affiliated broker dealer that
distributes through Allstate’s agency distribution force of nearly 15,000 independent contractors and financial professionals. The integration of the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate was completed during the second quarter of
2008.



Products



We offer variable annuities that provide our customers with
tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a full suite of optional guaranteed death and living benefits. The benefit features contractually guarantee the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits
made to the contract less any partial withdrawals (“return of net deposits”), (2) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (“minimum return”), and/or (3) the highest
contract value on a specified date minus any withdrawals (“contract value”). These guarantees may include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization or at specified dates during the accumulation period and withdrawal
and income benefits payable during specified periods. Our latest optional living benefits guarantee, among other features, the ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a minimum return, credited for a period of
time. This highest daily guaranteed contract value is generally accessible through periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and not as a lump-sum surrender value.



Our variable annuity investment options provide our customers with the opportunity to invest in proprietary and
non-proprietary mutual funds, frequently under asset allocation programs, and fixed-rate options. The investments made by customers in the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds generally represent separate account interests that provide a
return linked to an underlying investment portfolio. The investments made in the fixed rate options are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal
and interest credited at rates we determine, subject to certain







contractual minimums. Certain investments made in the fixed-rate options of our variable annuities and certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held
to maturity. Based on the contractual terms the market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the contractholder, or negative, resulting in a deduction from the contractholder’s account value or redemption
proceeds.



The primary risk exposures of our
variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, timing of annuitization and withdrawals,
contract lapses and contractholder mortality. The rate of return we realize from our variable annuity contracts will vary based on the extent of the differences between our actual experience and the assumptions used in the original pricing of these
products. As part of our risk management strategy we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of these risks primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, and externally purchased hedging
instruments. Our returns can also vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the impact on any capital markets risks that we hedge, and the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts that benefit from the
automatic rebalancing element.





As mentioned above, in addition to our automatic rebalancing element, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our hedging programs. In our living benefit hedging
program we purchase equity options and futures as well as interest rate derivatives to hedge certain optional living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives against changes in equity markets, interest rates, and market volatility. In
the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve
exposures. These capital hedges primarily consist of equity-based total return swaps, as well as interest rate derivatives, that are designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living
and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. We assess the composition of the hedging program on an ongoing basis.



Marketing and Distribution



Prudential Agents



Our Prudential Agents distribute variable annuities with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options, as well as fixed annuities. For
additional information regarding our Prudential Agent force, see “—U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division—Individual Life.”







Third Party Distribution



Our individual annuity products are also offered through a
variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, wirehouses, banks, and, beginning in the second half of 2006, Allstate’s proprietary distribution force. Our distribution efforts are supported by a network of 273 internal and
external wholesalers, as well as 34 new business development specialists as of December 31, 2009.



Underwriting and Pricing





Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future
obligations for our in force annuity contracts, including the minimum death benefit and living benefit guarantee features of some of these contracts. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield,
persistency, withdrawal rates, mortality rates, expenses and margins for adverse deviation. Certain of the living benefit guarantee features on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value. The
fair values of these benefit features are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. For variable and fixed annuity
contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and mortality charges.



Retirement



Our Retirement segment, which we refer to in the marketplace as Prudential Retirement, provides retirement
investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors. Our full service business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, tailored participant
education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investments. We service defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans. For clients with combinations of defined contribution, defined benefit and
non-qualified plans, we offer integrated recordkeeping services. For participants leaving our clients’ plans, we provide a broad range of rollover products through our broker-dealer, Prudential Investment Management Services LLC, our bank,
Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB, and certain of our insurance companies. In addition, in our institutional investment products business, we offer guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, funding agreements, institutional and retail notes,
structured settlement annuities, and group annuities, for defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, non-qualified entities, and individuals. Results of our institutional investment products business include proprietary spread lending
activities where we borrow on a secured or unsecured basis to support investments on which we earn a spread between the asset yield and liability cost.







The Retirement segment competes with other large, well-established insurance companies,
asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, investment performance, and our ability to offer product
features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, which are supported by the claims-paying ratings of our U.S.
insurance companies.



In recent years we have
completed two acquisitions which have increased our scale, expanded our sales and distribution capabilities and broadened our array of product and service offerings in our full service business.



Union Bank of California’s Retirement Business



On December 31, 2007, we acquired a
portion of the retirement business of Union Bank of California, N.A. for $103 million of cash consideration. This acquisition increased the scale of our product and service offerings and expanded our sales and distribution capabilities on the west
coast of the U.S. The integration of this business was completed in 2008.



MullinTBG



On October 10, 2008 we acquired MullinTBG Insurance Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including
administration of non-qualified executive benefit plans. This acquisition broadened our array of product offerings, expanded our sales and distribution capabilities and enhanced our position as a single source servicer of both qualified and
non-qualified retirement and deferred compensation plans.



Products and Services



Full Service





Our full service general account stable value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of
time and to repay account balances or market value upon contract termination. These stable value general account products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual rate resets giving effect to previous investment
experience. We earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping and other administrative services for these products. In addition, we earn profits from partially participating general account products from the spread between the rate of return
on the investments we make and the interest rates we credit, less expenses.



We also offer fee-based separate account products, through which customer funds are held in either a separate account or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results
to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a minimum interest rate general account guarantee.







Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, and hedge certain of the related risks utilizing externally purchased hedging
instruments. We earn administrative fees for these separate account products.



Our full service offerings are supported by participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including nondiscrimination testing, plan document services,
signature-ready documents for required filings, and full actuarial support for defined benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing
strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and acquisition support.



In addition, we offer a broad range of brokerage and banking solutions, including rollover individual retirement accounts, or IRA’s, mutual funds, and guaranteed income products. Our rollover
products and services are marketed to participants who terminate or retire from organizations that are clients of our retirement plan recordkeeping services.



Institutional Investment Products



The institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the stable value and payout annuity markets. In addition to the
profits discussed below, Prudential Financial’s asset management units earn fees from management of general account assets supporting retirement products and, to the extent these units are selected to manage client assets associated with
fee-based products, they also earn asset management fees related to those assets.



Stable Value Markets.Our stable value markets area manufactures general account investment-only products for use in retail and institutional capital markets and qualified
plan markets. Our primary investment-only general account products are GICs, funding agreements, retail notes and institutional notes. We also offer investment-only, fee-based stable value products, through which customers’ funds are held in
either a separate account or a client-owned trust. We pass investment results through to the customer, subject to a minimum interest rate general account guarantee. These investment-only products are marketed and sold through our institutional
investment products distribution channels. This unit also manufactures general and separate account stable value products and stable value products through which customer funds are held in client-owned trusts for business marketed and sold through
our full service distribution channels, the results of which are reflected in the full service business.



Our investment-only general account products offered within this market contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to
repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Because these obligations are backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, profits from our
general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on the investments we make and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. The credited interest rates we offer and the volume of issuance are impacted by many factors,
including the claims-paying ratings of our U.S. insurance companies.



Payout Annuity Markets.Our payout annuity markets area offers traditional general and separate account products designed to provide a predictable source of monthly income,
generally for the life of the participant, such as structured settlements, voluntary income products and close-out annuities, which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of
defined contribution participants and the payment obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. With our general account products, the obligation to make annuity payments to our annuitants is backed by our general account assets, and we bear
all of the investment, mortality, retirement, asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts. Our profits from structured settlements, voluntary income products and close-out annuities result from the emerging
experience related to investment returns, timing of retirements, mortality, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. The volume of issuance of these products is impacted by many factors, including
the claims-paying ratings of our U.S. insurance companies.



We also offer participating separate account annuity contracts, which are fee-based products that cover payments to retirees to be made by defined benefit plans. These contracts permit a plan sponsor to retain the risks and rewards of
investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity payments covered by the contract.







Marketing and Distribution



We distribute our products through a variety of channels. In our full service business, our dedicated sales and
support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and benefits consultants and, to a lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors. We market
our rollover IRA products and services to plan participants primarily through a centralized service team.



In our stable value markets area within our institutional investment products business, we distribute GICs and funding agreements to
institutional investors through our direct sales force and through intermediaries. We also have a global Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program, or FANIP, pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding
agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance. The medium-term notes are sold to institutional investors through intermediaries under Rule 144A and Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”). In
addition, a portion of Prudential Financial’s SEC-registered medium-term notes program is allocated for sales to retail investors. The proceeds from the sale of the retail notes may be used by Prudential Financial to purchase funding agreements
from Prudential Insurance. Proceeds from the retail notes may also be used for general corporate purposes. In February 2009, Prudential Insurance also began issuing funding agreements directly to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.



In our payout annuity markets area within our institutional
investment products business, structured settlements are distributed through structured settlement specialists. Voluntary income products are distributed through the defined contribution portion of our full service business, directly to plan
sponsors, or as part of annuity shopping services. Close-out annuities and participating separate account annuity products are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers.



Underwriting and Pricing



We set our rates for our stable value products within our full
service and institutional investment products businesses using pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense and profitability assumptions. In addition, for products within our payout annuity markets area, our models
also use assumptions for mortality and early retirement risks. Upon sale of a product, we adjust the duration of our asset portfolio and lock in the prevailing interest rates. Management continuously monitors cash flow experience and works closely
with our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups to review performance and ensure compliance with our investment policies.



Reserves



We establish reserves for future policy benefits and policyholders’ account balances to recognize our future obligations for our
products. Our liabilities for accumulation products generally represent cumulative policyholder account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the customer but have not yet been reflected in credited rates.
Our liabilities for products within our payout annuity markets area represent the present value of future guaranteed benefits plus maintenance expenses and are based on our actuarial assumptions. We perform a cash flow analysis in conjunction with
determining our reserves for future policy benefits.



Asset
Management



The Asset Management segment
provides a broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio management, mutual funds, asset securitization activity and other structured products, and proprietary investments. These products and services
are provided to the public and private marketplace, as well as our U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, International Insurance and Investments division and Individual Annuities and Retirement segments, as well as the Closed Block
Business.



The Asset Management segment competes
with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. In the markets for our products, we compete based upon investment performance, investment process, investment







talent and brand recognition. We earn asset management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management fee arrangements, we also receive
performance based incentive fees when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with the sale or purchase of
assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn commercial mortgage servicing fees and investment results from proprietary investing.



Operating Data



The following tables set forth the assets under management of the investment management and advisory services group of our Asset Management
segment at fair value by asset class and source as of the dates indicated.



December 31, 2009EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$47.9$120.3$20.2$188.4Retail customers(2)58.224.61.684.4General account3.7179.31.0184.0Total$109.8$324.2$22.8$456.8December 31, 2008EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$38.6$96.8$25.8$161.2Retail customers(2)38.321.51.861.6General account3.2168.60.8172.6Total$80.1$286.9$28.4$395.4December 31, 2007EquityFixedIncome(3)RealEstateTotal(in billions)Institutional customers(1)$56.7$92.0$27.7$176.4Retail customers(2)65.919.51.286.6General account4.5170.01.0175.5Total$127.1$281.5$29.9$438.5



(1)Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts.

(2)Consists of individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts. This also includes funds invested in
proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in our general account.

(3)Includes private fixed income and commercial mortgage assets of institutional customers of $10.1 billion as of December 31, 2009, $9.1 billion as of
December 31, 2008 and $9.7 billion as of December 31, 2007, and private fixed income and commercial mortgage assets in our general account of $64.5 billion, $61.7 billion and $62.4 billion, as of those dates, respectively.



Products and Services



In our asset management areas, we offer the following products
and services:



Public Fixed Income Asset
Management



Our public fixed income
organization manages fixed income portfolios for U.S. and international, institutional and retail clients, as well as for our general account. Our products include traditional broad market







fixed income strategies and single-sector strategies. We manage traditional asset liability strategies, as well as customized asset liability strategies. We also manage hedge strategies, as well
as collateralized debt obligations. We also serve as a non-custodial securities lending agent.



Strategies are managed by seasoned portfolio managers with securities selected by our nine sector specialist teams: Corporate, High Yield, Bank Loan, Emerging Markets Debt, U.S. Liquidity (U.S. government
and mortgage-backed securities), Money Market, Municipal Bonds, Global and Structured Product. A separate team is dedicated to securities lending activities. All strategies are managed using a research-based approach, supported by significant credit
research, quantitative research, and risk management organizations.



Public Equity Asset Management



Our public equity organization provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients. We manage a broad array of publicly-traded equity asset classes using
various investment styles. The public equity organization is comprised of two wholly-owned registered investment advisors, Jennison Associates LLC and Quantitative Management Associates LLC. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research
to manage portfolios for institutional and private clients through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory relationships. Jennison Associates also manages fixed income portfolios for
institutional clients through discretionary accounts and commingled vehicles, including mutual funds through subadvisory relationships. Quantitative Management Associates manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and
subadvisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary quantitative models tailored to meet client objectives.



Private Fixed Income Asset Management



Our private fixed income organization provides asset management services by investing predominantly in private placement investment grade
debt securities, as well as private placement below investment grade debt securities, and mezzanine debt financing. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts,
insurance company separate accounts, or private fund structures. A majority of the private placement investments are directly originated by our investment staff.



Commercial Mortgage Origination and Servicing



Our commercial mortgage operations provide mortgage
origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac. We also originate shorter-term interim loans for
spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale by the borrower of the underlying collateral. These loans are inherently more risky
than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. Due to unfavorable market conditions experienced in late 2008 and the inherent risk of these loans, we suspended the origination of interim loans in the third quarter of 2008. As
of December 31, 2009, the principal balance of interim loans totaled $1.7 billion.



Real Estate Asset Management



Our global real estate organization provides asset management services for single-client and commingled real estate portfolios and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment vehicles
investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients in 19 offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from fully diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end funds that
invest in specific types of properties or specific geographic regions or follow other specific investment strategies. Our global real estate organization has an established presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.



Proprietary Investments



We make proprietary investments in real estate, as well as
fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. The fair value of these investments was approximately $1.0 billion and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For more information on
these investments, see







“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Asset Management.”
Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other proprietary investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account,
or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). We also make loans to, and guarantee obligations of our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.



Mutual Funds and Other Retail Services



We manufacture, distribute and service
investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. retail market. Our products are designed to be sold primarily by financial professionals including both Prudential Agents and third party advisors.
We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of 39 mutual funds as of December 31, 2009. These products cover a wide array of investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with varying
objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial needs.



Additionally, we offer banks and other financial services organizations a wealth management platform, which permits such banks and organizations to provide their retail clients with services including
asset allocation, investment manager research and access, clearing, trading services, and performance reporting.



Marketing and Distribution



We provide investment management services for our institutional customers through a proprietary sales force organized by asset management
business. Each asset management business has an independent marketing and client service team working with clients. Institutional asset management services are also offered through the Retirement segment of the U.S. Retirement Solutions and
Investment Management division.



Most of the
retail customer assets under management are invested in our mutual funds and our variable annuities and variable life insurance products. These assets are gathered by the U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, the International Insurance
and Investments division, the Individual Annuities segment and third party networks. Additionally, we work with third party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.



We also provide investment management services across a broad
array of asset classes for our general account, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account
Investments—General Account Investments.”



U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division



The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.



Individual Life



Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily
to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be
affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed through independent third party distributors and Prudential Agents.



The Individual Life segment competes with large, well-established life insurance companies. In the markets for our products, we compete
primarily based upon price, service, distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial stability.







Certain fixed expenses are allocated between the Individual Life segment and the Closed
Block Business based upon allocation methodologies consistent with U.S. GAAP reporting. However, as policies in force within the Closed Block Business continue to mature or terminate, the level of expenses to be allocated to the Closed Block
Business will decrease, potentially increasing the expense allocations to the Individual Life segment.



Products



Our primary insurance products are variable life, term life and universal life and represent 43%, 48% and 8%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance, net of reinsurance, in force at
the end of 2009. In recent years, as term life insurance sales have increased and variable life insurance sales have decreased, we have seen term life insurance become a larger percentage of our net in force.



Variable Life Insurance



We offer a number of individual variable life insurance
products that provide a return linked to an underlying investment portfolio selected by the policyholder while providing the policyholder with the flexibility to change both the death benefit and premium payments. The policyholder generally has the
option of investing premiums in a fixed rate option that is part of our general account and/or investing in separate account investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed rate option will accrue interest
at rates we determine that vary periodically based on our portfolio rate. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. Each product provides for the deduction of charges and expenses from the customer’s contract
fund. In July of 2009, we launched a new variable product that has the same basic features as our variable universal life product but also allows for a more flexible guarantee against lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. In the
affluent market, we offer a private placement variable universal life product, which also utilizes investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand
continues to favor term and universal life insurance.



A significant portion of our Individual Life insurance segment’s profits are associated with our large in force block of variable policies. Profit patterns on these policies are not level and as the policies age, insureds generally
begin paying reduced policy charges. This, coupled with net policy count and insurance in force runoff over time, reduces our expected future profits from this product line. Asset management fees and mortality and expense fees are a key component of
variable life product profitability and vary based on the average daily net asset value. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable life contracts, lapses driven by unfavorable equity market performance may occur on a quarter lag with
the market risk during this lag being borne by the Company.



Term Life Insurance



We offer a variety of term life insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period. Most term products include a conversion feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy
into permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of premium if the insured is alive at the end of the level premium period. There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance
protection.



Individual Life profits from term
insurance are not expected to directly correlate, from a timing perspective, with the increase in term insurance in force because of uneven product profitability patterns, as well as the costs of our ongoing capital management activities.



Universal Life Insurance



We offer universal life insurance products that feature a fixed
crediting rate that varies periodically based on portfolio returns, flexible premiums and a choice of guarantees against lapse. Universal life policies provide for the deduction of charges and expenses from the policyholders’ contract fund.



Individual Life profits from universal life
insurance are impacted by mortality and expense margins, interest spread on policyholder funds as well as the net interest spread on capital management activities.







Across all of our products we also offer a living benefits option that allows insureds that
are diagnosed with a terminal illness to receive a portion of their life insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of death, to use as needed. Also, the majority of claim amounts are deposited into a retained asset account from which the
beneficiary may withdraw the proceeds at any time.



Marketing and Distribution



Third Party Distribution



Our
individual life products are offered through a variety of third party channels, including independent brokers, general agencies and producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect
individuals, families and businesses and support estate and wealth transfer planning. The life insurance products offered are generally the same as those available through Prudential Agents. Our third party efforts are supported by a network of
internal and external wholesalers. We also offer a simplified-issue term life insurance policy and a single-premium universal life insurance policy available to customers of select banks and other financial institutions.



Prudential Agents



Our Prudential Agents distribute Prudential variable, term and
universal life insurance, variable and fixed annuities, and investment and other protection products with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options as well as selected insurance and investment products manufactured by others. The number of
Prudential Agents was 2,447, 2,360 and 2,425 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Over the same period, average agent productivity, based upon average commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents, has decreased
from $60,500 for 2007 to $50,830 for 2009 due to unstable market conditions.



Prudential Agents sell life insurance products primarily to customers in the U.S. mass and mass affluent markets, as well as small business owners. Other than certain training allowances or salary paid at
the beginning of their employment, we pay Prudential Agents on a commission basis for the products they sell. In addition to commissions, Prudential Agents receive the employee benefits that we provide to other Prudential employees generally,
including medical and disability insurance, an employee savings program and qualified retirement plans.



Prior to the sale of our property and casualty insurance operations in 2003, the Individual Life segment had been compensated for property
and casualty insurance products sold through Prudential Agents. Following the sale, Prudential Agents have continued access to non-proprietary property and casualty products under distribution agreements entered into with the purchasers of these
businesses, as well as other non-proprietary product providers; therefore, the Individual Life segment continues to be compensated for sales of these products.



The compensation arrangements for certain non-proprietary products provide an opportunity for additional compensation to the Individual
Life segment based on multi-year profitability of the products sold. This additional compensation is not predictable since the multi-year profitability of the products is subject to substantial variability and, additionally, the compensation
arrangements are periodically renegotiated which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was revised effective in late 2008 and the profit opportunities will be significantly
reduced in 2010 and beyond.



As mentioned above,
the Individual Life segment distributes products offered by the Annuities, Group Insurance and Asset Management segments and charges these businesses a market rate to distribute these products. These charges may be more or less than the associated
distribution costs, and any profit or loss is included in the results of the Individual Life segment.



Underwriting and Pricing



For our fully underwritten life insurance, underwriters follow detailed and uniform policies and procedures to assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products. Depending on the age
of the applicant







and amount of insurance requested, we require the applicant to take a variety of underwriting tests, such as medical examinations, electrocardiograms, blood tests, urine tests, and gather
information such as physician records and investigative reports. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life insurance on expected death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We use assumptions for mortality,
interest, expenses, policy persistency, and premium payment pattern in pricing policies. Some of our policies are fully guaranteed. Others have current premiums/charges and interest credits that we can change subject to contractual guarantees. We
routinely update the interest crediting rates on our universal life policies and on the fixed account of our variable life policies. In resetting these rates, we consider the returns on our portfolios supporting these policies, current interest
rates, the competitive environment and our profit objectives.



Our operating results are impacted by differences between actual mortality and persistency experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to
period. Our Individual Life segment employs capital management activities, including financing of statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, to maximize product returns and enable competitive pricing. Capital
management activities are impacted by the cost of financing and our ability to access the capital markets, and insurance regulations. For a more detailed discussion of our capital management activities see “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.”



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future
obligations for our in force life policies. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as margins for adverse deviation. For variable and
interest-sensitive life insurance contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and mortality
charges.



Reinsurance



The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of
managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product profitability based on mortality experience. Since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk we assume under our newly sold individual life insurance
policies. While we reinsure most of our new policies, in some instances reinsurance is unavailable because the reinsurers have reached their capacity limits for a particular insured. If we determine, based on our underwriting policies and
procedures, that the risk is acceptable we will issue these policies on a non-reinsured basis up to a maximum exposure of $30 million on a single life and $35 million on a second-to-die policy. In some instances, lower limits apply. For instance,
when no reinsurance is available on newly-issued term life policies, we limit our maximum exposure to $10 million.



Group Insurance



Our Group Insurance segment manufactures and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, long-term
care, and group corporate- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. Group Insurance also sells accidental death and dismemberment and other
ancillary coverages and provides plan administrative services in connection with its insurance coverages. Beginning in 2010, Group Insurance will also offer preferred provider and indemnity dental coverage plans to clients.



The Group Insurance segment competes with other large,
well-established life and health insurance providers in the U.S. markets, and is a top provider of both group life and disability insurance. The markets in which we compete are mature markets, hence we compete primarily based on strong brand
recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial stability and range of product offerings. Due to the large number of competitors, price competition is strong. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations,
affinity groups or other organizations, such as those with over 10,000 insured individuals. We have a strong portfolio of products and the ability to meet complex needs of the large clients, providing opportunities for continuing stabilized premiums
and growth.







Products



Group Life Insurance



We offer group life insurance products including employer-pay (basic) and employee-pay (voluntary) coverages.
This portfolio of products includes basic and supplemental term life insurance for employees, optional term life insurance for dependents of employees and universal life insurance. We also offer group variable universal life insurance, basic and
voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance and business travel accident insurance. Many of our employee-pay coverages include a portability feature, allowing employees to retain their coverage when they change employers or retire. We
also offer a living benefits option that allows insureds that are diagnosed with a terminal illness to receive a portion of their life insurance benefit upon diagnosis, in advance of death, to use as needed. Also, the majority of claim payments are
deposited into a retained asset account from which the beneficiary may withdraw the proceeds at any time.



Group Disability Insurance



We offer short- and long-term group disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term
disability generally provides a weekly benefit amount (typically 50% - 70% of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit) for three to six months, and long-term disability covers the period after short-term disability ends.
Long-term disability insureds may receive total or partial disability benefits. Most of these policies begin providing benefits following a 90- or 180-day waiting period (during which short-term disability is provided) and generally continue
providing benefits until the insured reaches normal retirement age. Long-term disability benefits are paid monthly and are limited to a portion, generally 50% - 70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Our approach
to disability claims management incorporates a focus on early intervention, return-to-work programs and successful rehabilitation of claimants. We also offer absence management services which assist employers in managing employee absences and
workplace productivity including administrative tracking and management for certain employee absence events. The absence management services we provide can also be integrated with our short- and long-term disability management services.



Other



We offer individual and group long-term care insurance and
group corporate- and trust-owned life insurance. Long-term care insurance protects the insured from the costs of an adult day care center, a nursing home or similar live-in care situation or a home health or a personal care aide. Group corporate-
and trust-owned life insurance are group variable life insurance contracts typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees.



Marketing and Distribution



Group Insurance has its own dedicated sales force that is
organized around products and market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefits brokers and consultants. Group Insurance also distributes individual long-term care products through Prudential Agents as well as third party brokers
and agents.



Underwriting and Pricing



We have developed standard rating systems for each product line
in the Group Insurance segment based on our past experience and relevant industry experience. For our earlier generation long-term care products, experience data was very limited. As the long-term care industry is maturing, the information
available, both our own and industry experience, for use in underwriting has improved. We are not obligated to accept any application for a policy or group of policies from any distributor. We follow standard underwriting practices and procedures.
If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.



We determine premiums on some of our policies on a retrospective experience-rated basis, in which case the policyholder bears some of the
risk or receives some of the benefit associated with claim experience fluctuations







during the policy period. We base product pricing of group insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits that we calculate using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses
and persistency, depending upon the specific product features.



Some policies are not eligible to receive experience-based refunds. The adequacy of our pricing of these policies determines their profitability during the rate guarantee period. In addition, our
profitability is subject to fluctuation period to period, based on the differences between actual mortality and morbidity experience and the assumptions used in pricing our policies. However, we anticipate that over the rate guarantee period we will
achieve mortality and morbidity levels more closely aligned with the assumptions used in pricing our policies. Market demand for multiple year rate guarantees for new policies increases the risk associated with unanticipated changes in experience
patterns as well as deviations from expense and interest rate assumptions.



We routinely make pricing adjustments, when contractually permitted that take into account the emerging experience on our group insurance products. While there can be no assurance, we expect these
actions, as well as pricing discipline in writing new business, will allow us to maintain benefits ratios that are consistent with our profit objectives.



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves that we believe will be adequate to meet our future policyholder
benefit obligations. We base these reserves on actuarially-recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables in general use in the U.S., which we modify to reflect our actual experience when appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported
but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. We also establish a liability for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, expenses and cost
of insurance charges as applicable.



International Insurance and Investments Division



The International Insurance and Investments division conducts its business through the International Insurance and International Investments segments.



International Insurance



Our International Insurance segment manufactures and
distributes individual life insurance products to the mass affluent and affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other countries outside the U.S. through its Life Planner operations. In addition, we offer similar products to the broad middle income
market across Japan through Life Advisors, who are associated with our separately-operated Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Gibraltar Life, operation, which we acquired in April 2001. We commenced sales in non-U.S. markets through our Life
Planner operations, as follows: Japan, 1988; Taiwan, 1990; Italy, 1990; Korea, 1991; Brazil, 1998; Argentina, 1999; Poland, 2000; and Mexico, 2006. We continue to explore opportunities for a more diverse mix of business including an increased focus
on the international retirement market.



We
continue to seek opportunities for expansion into high-growth markets in targeted countries, such as in China and India. During 2007, we entered into a joint venture in India where we have a 26% interest, the maximum currently allowed by regulation
in India. The joint venture received its insurance license in June 2008 and commenced sales of life insurance products shortly thereafter. In addition, we also have an investment in China, through a consortium of investors that holds a minority
interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. In December 2009, China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. listed its shares on the Hong Kong exchange. The consortium of investors agreed not to sell its shares before one year from the
listing. As a result, holdings by the consortium may be sold beginning in December 2010.



In certain countries where we operate, particularly Japan and Korea, our products are highly regulated and, as a result, premium levels may not vary significantly among competitors. Therefore, we
generally compete more on service provided to the customers than on price. In our operations other than Gibraltar Life and our new joint venture in India, we compete by focusing primarily on a limited market using our Life Planner model to offer







high quality service and needs-based protection products. The success of our model in some markets makes us vulnerable to imitation and targeted recruitment of our sales force; thus the loss of
highly-skilled and productive Life Planners to competitors is a significant competitive risk. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and retain our Life Planners by continuously evaluating and adjusting our training and compensation programs,
where appropriate, to positively impact retention.



We manage each operation on a stand-alone basis with local management and sales teams, with oversight by senior executives based in Asia and Newark, New Jersey. Each operation has its own marketing, underwriting and claims, and investment
management functions. In addition, large portions of the general account investment portfolios are managed by our International Investments segment. Each operation invests primarily in local currency securities, typically bonds issued by the local
government or its agencies. In our larger operations, we have more diversified portfolios that also include investments in U.S. dollar denominated securities.



On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in
October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and, under the reorganization agreement, acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of
Yamato’s insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges are 20% in the first year and will decline by 2% each year thereafter.
Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Financial of Japan Life Insurance Company Ltd.



Products



We currently offer various traditional whole life, term life, and endowment policies, which provide for payment on the earlier of death or
maturity, as well as retirement income life insurance products that combine an insurance protection element similar to that of whole life policies with a retirement income feature. In some of our operations we also offer certain health products with
fixed benefits, as well as annuity products, which are primarily represented by U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuities in Gibraltar Life and variable annuities in Korea. In 2009, Gibraltar Life expanded its fixed annuity products, which now
includes Australian dollar, Euro, and Yen denominated products. These contracts impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity. The market value adjustment can be positive, resulting in an additional amount for the
contractholder, or negative, resulting in a deduction from the contractholder’s account value or redemption proceeds. We also offer variable life products in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Poland and interest-sensitive life products in Japan, Korea,
Taiwan and Argentina. Generally, our international insurance products are non-participating and denominated in local currency. Certain of our operations also offer U.S. dollar denominated products. Where non-local currency products are offered, both
the premiums and benefits are guaranteed in the currency of the product offered.



Marketing and Distribution



The following table sets forth the number of Life Planners and Life Advisors for the periods indicated.



As of December 31,200920082007Life Planners:Japan(1)$3,094$3,071$3,068All other countries3,5153,2943,098Life Advisors6,3986,3306,264Total$13,007$12,695$12,430



(1)In 2009, 2008 and 2007, 152, 70 and 82 Life Planners, respectively, were transferred to Gibraltar. Of the transferred Life Planners, 54, 43, and 67, in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, were transferred to support our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution. The remainder have joined either as Gibraltar Life Advisors or as an associate in the agency branch discussed below. The Life Planners transferred
to support bank channel distribution and the agency branch are not included in the Life Advisor counts above.







Life Planner Model



Our Life Planner model is significantly different from the way traditional industry participants offer life
insurance in Japan and in most of the other countries where we do business. It also differs from the way we market through the Life Advisors of Gibraltar Life. We believe that our selection standards, training, supervision and compensation package
are key to the Life Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent productivity and policy persistency than our local competitors. In general, we recruit Life Planners with:



•university degrees, so that the Life Planner will have the same educational background and outlook as the target customer;



•a minimum of two years of sales or sales management experience;



•no prior life insurance sales experience; and



•a pattern of job stability and success.



The Life Planner’s objective is to sell protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and affluent
customers.



The number of Life Planners in our
Japanese operations was stable, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. This includes the impact of the transfer of 152 Life Planners to Gibraltar during this period, primarily in support of our efforts to expand the bank channel
distribution and to service orphaned policyholders discussed below. This also reflects the Company’s efforts to further improve retention and the quality of Life Planners by more selective screening. The increase in Life Planners in all other
countries, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, was driven by increases of 74, 63, 59, and 31 in Brazil, Taiwan, Poland, and Korea, respectively.



Life Advisors



Our Life Advisors are the proprietary distribution force for products offered by Gibraltar Life. Their focus is to provide individual
protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Advisor operation is based on a variable compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is
similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Advisors has increased over the last few years, but the pace of growth in Life Advisors reflects the more disciplined hiring standards adopted in the latter half of
2007 to enhance retention and productivity.



During 2008, a new agency branch was created in Gibraltar Life that focuses on servicing our Japanese Life Planner policyholders that are not actively serviced by a Life Planner (i.e., orphaned policyholders). In addition to servicing
orphaned policyholders, the agency branch promotes Gibraltar Life’s products with a focus on retirement and medical insurance products.



Bank Distribution Channel



In 2006, Gibraltar Life commenced sales, primarily of U.S. dollar denominated fixed annuity products, through banks to supplement its core
Life Advisor distribution channel. As of December 31, 2009, Gibraltar Life had distribution agreements with twenty banks. Beginning in early 2008, Gibraltar Life introduced a Yen-denominated variable annuity product in the bank channel, and
began selling protection products, both Yen- and U.S. dollar denominated, as a result of the liberalization of banking regulations allowing for the sale of additional insurance products. During 2009, the fixed annuity product offering was expanded
and now includes Australian dollar, Euro, and Yen denominated products. We continue to explore opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through the bank channel, as well as other alternative channels.



Underwriting and Pricing



Our International Insurance segment is subject to substantial
local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each International







Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local
industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with each operation’s reinsurers.



Pricing of individual life insurance products, particularly in Japan and Korea, is more regulated than in the
U.S. Generally, premiums in each country are different for participating and non-participating products, but within each product type they are generally similar for all companies. Mortality and morbidity rates and interest rates that we use to
calculate premiums are restricted by regulation on the basis of product type by country. Interest rates guaranteed under our insurance contracts may exceed the rates of return we earn on our investments, and, as a result, we may experience negative
spreads between the rate we guarantee and the rate we earn on investments. Negative investment spreads had an adverse impact on the overall results of our Life Planner operations in recent years. The profitability on our products from these
operations results primarily from margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges. In addition, the profitability of our products is impacted by differences between actual mortality experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies
and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. However, we anticipate over the long-term to achieve the mortality levels reflected in the assumptions used in pricing in aggregate.



Reserves



We establish and carry as liabilities actuarially-determined reserves for future policy benefits that we believe will meet our future
obligations. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, mortality and morbidity rates, expenses and margins for adverse deviation. For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well
as annuity products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premiums collected plus interest or investment results credited less surrenders, and charges for cost of insurance and
administration fees.



The reserves for many of our
products have long durations and, in some of these markets, it is difficult to find appropriate assets with the same long duration. Due to the long-term nature of many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to add duration
exposure to our Japanese investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer-term securities or, by entering into long-duration floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the
characteristics of our long-dated product liabilities, and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and will
implement these hedging strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields upon the resumption of these strategies will depend on
the then current interest rate environment.



Reinsurance



International Insurance reinsures
portions of its insurance risks with both selected third party reinsurers and Prudential Insurance under reinsurance agreements primarily on a yearly renewable term basis. International Insurance also buys catastrophe reinsurance that covers
multiple deaths from a single occurrence in our Life Planner operations in Japan, Taiwan and Brazil. We also have coinsurance agreements with Prudential Insurance for the U.S. dollar denominated business in our Japanese Life Planner insurance
operations.



International Investments



Our International Investments segment offers proprietary and
non-proprietary asset management, investment advice and services to retail and institutional clients in selected international markets. These services are marketed through proprietary and third party distribution networks and encompass the
businesses of our international investments operations and our global commodities group, which are described in more detail below.



Our international investments operations include manufacturing of proprietary products and distribution of both proprietary and
non-proprietary products, tailored to meet client needs. In this business, we invest in asset







management and distribution businesses in targeted countries to expand our mass affluent customer base outside the U.S. and to increase our global assets under management. We seek to establish
long-term relationships with our clients through our proprietary distribution network and we believe this provides an advantage over some competitors who provide only asset management services. Additionally, this business manages large portions of
the general account investment portfolios of our international insurance operations.



Our global commodities group provides advice, sales and trading on a global basis covering a wide variety of commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and forward contracts, including
agricultural commodities, base and precious metals, major currencies, interest rate and stock indices primarily to an institutional client base. We conduct these operations through offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia, and are members of most major
futures exchanges. Our global commodities group primarily serves as an intermediary between its customers and, therefore, assumes minimal market risk, except counterparty credit risk related to its customers. We conduct futures transactions on
margin according to the regulations of the different futures exchanges. To the extent clients are unable to meet their commitments and margin deposits are insufficient to cover outstanding liabilities, we may be required to purchase or sell
financial instruments at prevailing market prices in order to fulfill the client’s obligations.



In February 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset
Management Co., Ltd, which together comprise our Korean asset management operations. The net proceeds from this agreement are expected to be approximately equal to our book value. As a result of the agreement, which is subject to local regulatory
approval, results of our Korean asset management operations will, commencing with first quarter of 2010 reporting, be excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods reported.



On July 12, 2007, our international investments operations sold its 50% interest in the operating
joint ventures Oppenheim Pramerica Fonds Trust GmbH and Oppenheim Pramerica Asset Management S.a.r.l., which were accounted for under the equity method, to our partner Oppenheim S.C.A. for $121 million. These businesses establish, package and
distribute mutual fund products to German and other European retail investors. We recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of $37 million in 2007.



On January 18, 2008, we made an additional investment of $154 million in our UBI Pramerica operating joint venture in Italy, which we
account for under the equity method. This additional investment was necessary to maintain our ownership interest at 35% and was a result of the merger of our joint venture partner with another Italian bank, and their subsequent consolidation of
their asset management companies into the UBI Pramerica joint venture.



On July 1, 2008, we acquired a 40 percent interest in GAP Asset Management of Brazil, which we account for under the equity method as an operating joint venture.



Corporate and Other



Corporate and Other includes corporate operations that are not
allocated to any of our business segments and the real estate and relocation services business, as well as divested businesses except for those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Corporate Operations



Corporate operations consist primarily of: (1) investment
returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other tax enhanced
investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other employee
benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities and deferred compensation;
(6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to







provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) businesses that we have
placed in wind-down status but have not divested; and (8) the impact of transactions with other segments.



The wind-down businesses included in corporate operations consist of the following:



•We have not actively engaged in the life reinsurance market since the early 1990s; however, we remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed
individual life insurance policies under the terms of the reinsurance treaties.



•We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992, and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical policies. Most of
our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major medical policies, the 1997 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act guarantees
renewal. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been sufficient to pay claims and
expenses.



Residential Real Estate Brokerage
Franchise and Relocation Services



Prudential
Real Estate and Relocation Services is our integrated real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business. The real estate group markets franchises primarily to existing real estate companies. Our franchise agreements grant the
franchisee the right to use the Prudential name and real estate service marks in return for royalty payments on gross commissions generated by the franchisees. The franchises generally are independently owned and operated. This business also has a
finance subsidiary that makes debt and equity investments in a limited number of franchisees.



Our relocation group offers institutional clients and government agencies a variety of services in connection with the relocation of their employees. These services include: coordination of appraisal;
inspection, purchase and sale of relocating employees’ homes; equity advances to relocating employees; assistance in locating homes at the relocating employee’s destination; household goods moving services; client cost-tracking and a
variety of relocation policy and group move consulting services. Generally the client is responsible for carrying costs and any loss on sale with respect to a relocating employee’s home that is purchased by us. Our government clients and
certain corporate clients utilize a fixed price program under which we assume the benefits and burdens of ownership, including carrying costs and any loss on sale.



Divested Businesses



The following operations are businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that did not qualify for “discontinued operations”
accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We include the results of these divested businesses in our income from continuing operations, but we exclude these results from our adjusted operating income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for an explanation of adjusted operating income.



Financial Advisory



In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This business
consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture described below, which was sold on December 31, 2009, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we
contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.



On July 1, 2003, we combined our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wachovia Corporation (“Wachovia”) and formed Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC,
(“Wachovia Securities”), a joint venture headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. On December 31, 2008, Wachovia merged with and into Wells Fargo & Company (“Wells Fargo”), which succeeded to Wachovia’s rights and
obligations under the joint venture agreements. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest







in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. For more information on our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, including the
“lookback” option, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and
Capital Resources of Subsidiaries—Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries—Prudential Securities Group.”



Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations



In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this
business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage-backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, were
previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment.
As of December 31, 2009, our commercial mortgage securitization operations held a loan with a principal balance of $14 million, whose fair value continues to be subject to changes in credit spreads.



Property and Casualty Insurance



In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies,
which included Prudential Property and Casualty Insurance Company (“Prupac”) that operated nationally in 48 states outside of New Jersey, and the District of Columbia, to Liberty Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual. We have agreed not to
compete with the buyers. A non-compete agreement is effective until the termination of our distribution agreement with Liberty Mutual.



We have reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks either written or assumed prior to the
sale that Liberty Mutual did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our remaining property and casualty obligations under these reinsurance contracts based on the current information available; however, we may be
required to take additional charges in the future that could be material to our results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period.



In connection with the sale, Liberty Mutual has the right to sell Prupac back to us. This right is not exercisable by Liberty Mutual until
October 31, 2010, unless an earlier date is separately agreed. Under the terms of the put right, the business transferring to us would be the business we already reinsure, as described in the preceding paragraph, and any business written prior
to a put closing that would be fully reinsured by Liberty Mutual.



Prudential Securities Capital Markets



In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities’ activities to implement a fundamental shift in our business strategy. We subsequently exited the lead-managed equity underwriting
business for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business. As of December 31, 2009 we had remaining assets amounting to $77 million related to Prudential Securities’ institutional fixed income activities.



Exchange shares previously held by Prudential Equity Group



In 2007, we exited the equity sales,
trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group, and retained certain securities relating to trading exchange memberships of these former operations. These securities were received in 2006 in connection with the commencement of public
trading of stock exchange shares, and were fully disposed of in 2008.



Other



We previously
marketed individual life insurance in Canada through Prudential of America Life Insurance Company, or PALIC. In 2000, we sold our interest in PALIC and indemnified the purchaser for certain liabilities with respect to claims related to sales
practices or market conduct issues arising from operations prior to the sale. We also remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies sold by PALIC under the terms of the reinsurance treaties.







Discontinued Operations



Discontinued operations reflect the results of the following businesses which qualified for “discontinued
operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP:



•We sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our group managed and indemnity healthcare business to Aetna Inc. in 1999.



•We discontinued certain branches of our international securities operations in the fourth quarter of 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2004 we
discontinued the remaining branches of our international securities operations.



•We discontinued our Dryden Wealth Management business, which offered financial advisory, private banking and portfolio management services primarily to
retail investors in Europe and Asia, in the second quarter of 2005. We subsequently sold these operations in the fourth quarter of 2005.



•We discontinued our Philippine insurance operations in the second quarter of 2006 and subsequently sold these operations in the third quarter of 2006.



•In the third quarter of 2006, we entered into a reinsurance transaction related to the Canadian Intermediate Weekly Premium and Individual Health
operations, which resulted in these operations being accounted for as “discontinued operations.”



•We discontinued the equity sales, trading and research operations of the Prudential Equity Group in the second quarter of 2007.



•We discontinued our Mexican asset management operations in the second quarter of 2009 and subsequently sold these operations in the fourth quarter of
2009.



In addition, direct real
estate investments that are sold or held for sale may require “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Closed Block Business





Our strategy for the Closed Block Business is to maintain the Closed Block as required by our Plan of Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan
of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, to enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. In 2005, we completed the process
of arranging reinsurance of the Closed Block. The Closed Block is 90% reinsured, including 17% by a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting of
these modified coinsurance arrangements.







As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the
Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the
policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder dividends, and it will not be available
to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for these excess cash flows. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year
based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and
total assets of the Closed Block Business.



Intangible and Intellectual Property



We use numerous federal, state and foreign servicemarks and trademarks. We believe that the goodwill associated with many of our servicemarks and trademarks, particularly “Prudential®,” “Prudential Financial®,” “Growing and Protecting Your Wealth®” and our “Rock” logo, are significant competitive assets in the U.S.



On April 20, 2004, we entered into a servicemark and trademark agreement with Prudential plc of the United
Kingdom, with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” The agreement is intended to avoid customer confusion in areas where both companies
compete. Under the agreement, there are restrictions on our use of the “Prudential” name and mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our
“Rock” logo with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally.



Ratings



For our current ratings information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Ratings.”



Competition



In each of our businesses we face intense
competition from U.S. and international insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader
range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. We compete in our businesses based on a number of factors including brand
recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, risk management capabilities, capital management
capabilities, perceived financial strength, and claims-paying and credit ratings. The relative importance of these factors varies across our products, services and the markets we serve.



The adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009 have
resulted in changes in the competitive landscape. For example, the financial distress experienced by certain financial services industry participants as a result of such conditions, including government mandated sales of certain businesses, may lead
to favorable acquisition opportunities, although our ability or that of our competitors to pursue such opportunities may be limited due to lower earnings, reserve increases, and a lack of access to debt capital markets and other sources of
financing. Such conditions may also lead to changes by us or our competitors in product offerings, product pricing and business mix that could affect our and their relative sales volumes, market shares and profitability. It is also possible that
such conditions may put U.S. companies with financial operations in non-U.S. locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to domestic companies operating in those locations and may impact sales in those locations. Additionally, the competitive
landscape may be further affected by the government sponsored programs in the U.S. and similar governmental actions outside of the U.S. in response to the severe dislocations in financial markets.







Consolidations among companies in the financial services industry may occur and result in
competitors with increased market shares, or the introduction of larger or financially stronger competitors through acquisitions or otherwise, in lines of business in which we compete.



We could be subject to claims by competitors that our products, benefits, features or the administration
thereof, infringe their patents or trade or service marks, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial position.



Certain of our products compete on the basis of investment performance. A material decline in the investment performance of these products
could have an adverse effect on our sales, as well as potentially increase the level of withdrawals and customer complaints. Rankings and ratings of investment performance have a significant effect on our ability to increase our assets under
management.



Competition for personnel in our
businesses is intense, including our captive sales personnel and our investment managers. In the ordinary course of business, we lose personnel from time to time in whom we have invested significant training. We direct substantial efforts to recruit
and retain our insurance agents and employees and to increase their productivity. The loss of key investment managers could have a material adverse effect on our Asset Management segment.



Many of our businesses are in industries where access to multiple sales channels may be a competitive
advantage. We currently sell insurance and investment products through both affiliated and non-affiliated distribution channels, including (1) our captive sales channel, (2) independent agents, brokers and financial planners,
(3) broker-dealers that generally are members of the New York Stock Exchange, including “wirehouse” and regional broker-dealer firms, (4) broker-dealers affiliated with banks or that specialize in marketing to customers of banks,
and (5) intermediaries such as retirement plan administrators. While we believe that certain insurance and investment products will continue to be sold primarily through face-to-face sales channels, customers’ desire for objective and not
product-related advice may, over time, increase the amount of such insurance and investment products sold through non-affiliated distributors. In addition, we expect that certain insurance and investment products will increasingly be sold through
direct marketing, including through electronic commerce.



The proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to remain competitive with respect to product offerings, compensation, services offered, and recruiting and retention. We
continue our efforts to strengthen and broaden our sales channels, but we cannot assure that we will be successful. We run the risk that our competitors will have more distribution channels, stronger relationships with non-affiliated distribution
channels, or will make a more significant or rapid shift to direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves. If this happens, our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected.



Our ability to sell certain insurance products, including
traditional guaranteed products depends significantly on our claims-paying ratings. A downgrade in our claims-paying ratings could adversely affect our ability to sell our insurance products and reduce our profitability. For additional information
on our claims-paying ratings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Ratings.”





Regulation



Overview



Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and
supervision. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations
may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. As discussed below, it appears likely that the financial market dislocations that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009 will lead to extensive changes in
existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally. U.S. law and regulation of our international businesses, particularly as it relates to monitoring







customer activities, is likely to increase as a result of terrorist activity in the U.S. and abroad and may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The discussion immediately below is
primarily focused on applicable U.S. regulation. A separate discussion of the regulations affecting our international businesses is provided later in this section under “—Regulation of our International Businesses.”



Insurance Operations



State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance
businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance
regulatory authority is the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must
be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. Products in the U.S. that also constitute “securities,” such as variable life
insurance and variable annuities, are also subject to federal and some state securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, and some state securities
commissions regulate and supervise these products.



Investment Products and Asset Management Operations



Our investment products and services are subject to federal and state securities, fiduciary, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The SEC,
FINRA, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, state securities commissions, state insurance departments and the United States Department of Labor are the principal U.S. regulators that regulate our asset management operations.



Securities Operations



Our securities operations, principally conducted by a number of
SEC-registered broker-dealers are subject to federal and state securities, commodities and related laws. The SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board,
and similar authorities are the principal regulators of our securities operations.



Regulation Affecting Prudential Financial



Prudential Financial is the holding company for all of our operations. Prudential Financial itself is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity.
However, because it owns regulated entities, Prudential Financial is subject to regulation as an insurance holding company and, as discussed under “—Other Businesses” below, a savings and loan holding company. As a company with
publicly-traded securities, Prudential Financial is subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the SEC and the NYSE relating to public reporting and disclosure,
securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that Act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other
areas for public companies such as Prudential Financial.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



Prudential Financial is subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut and Indiana or
are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of
domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and,
if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department.







Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled, have
insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control of Prudential Financial or of
our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an
insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial without the prior
approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities
by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator.



In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary
insurance company doing business in that state. While these prenotification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular
conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Prudential Financial may require prior notification in those states that have adopted preacquisition notification laws.



These laws may discourage potential acquisition
proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Prudential Financial, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some shareholders of Prudential Financial might consider desirable.



Insurance Operations



State Insurance Regulation



State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers
with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including:



•licensing to transact business,



•licensing agents,



•admittance of assets to statutory surplus,



•regulating premium rates for certain insurance products,



•approving policy forms,



•regulating unfair trade and claims practices,



•establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards,



•fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values, and



•regulating the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted and other matters.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance
companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Our U.S. insurance
companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or the NAIC, has approved a series of
statutory accounting principles that have been adopted, in some cases with minor modifications, by all state insurance departments.



Effective with the annual reporting period ending December 31, 2010, the NAIC adopted revisions to the Annual Financial Reporting Model
Regulation, or the Model Audit Rule, related to auditor independence, corporate governance and internal control over financial reporting. The adopted revisions require that we file reports with state insurance departments regarding our assessment of
internal control over financial reporting.







State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records,
financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states
under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In May 2007, the Connecticut insurance regulator completed a routine financial examination of American Skandia Life Assurance Corporation (now Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation) for the five
year period ended December 31, 2005, and found no material deficiencies. In February 2008, the New Jersey insurance regulator, along with the insurance regulators of Arizona and Connecticut, completed a coordinated financial examination for the
five year period ended December 31, 2006 for all of our U.S. life insurance companies as part of the normal five year examination cycle and found no material deficiencies. In December 2008, the Indiana insurance regulator completed a routine
financial examination of Vantage Casualty Insurance Company for the five year period ended December 31, 2007 and found no material deficiencies.



Financial Regulation



Dividend Payment Limitations.The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which
our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other U.S. insurance companies. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.



Risk-Based Capital.In order to enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health
and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. The risk-based capital, or RBC, calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s
statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a
given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate
capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The RBC ratios for each of our U.S. insurance companies currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective
action.



IRIS
Tests.The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance
companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. Insurance companies generally submit data annually to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using prescribed financial data ratios,
each with defined “usual ranges.” Generally, regulators will begin to investigate or monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital,
regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. None of our U.S. insurance companies is currently subject to regulatory scrutiny based on these ratios.



Insurance Reserves.State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves
annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our
contractual obligations and related expenses.



Market Conduct Regulation



State
insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint
handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.



Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments



Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by
state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent







insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by
all member insurers in the state. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we paid approximately $4.5 million, $1.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. In
addition, in 2009, we received $9.3 million of refunds for assessments paid in prior years. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established reserves that
we believe are adequate for assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings.



State Securities Regulation



Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are “securities” within the
meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may
affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.



Federal Regulation



Our variable life insurance products, as well as our variable annuity and mutual fund products, generally are “securities” within the meaning of federal securities laws, registered under the
federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under “—Investment Products and Asset Management Operations” and
“—Securities Operations” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products. In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal
legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including financial services regulation, taxation and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can significantly affect the insurance industry. As discussed below, it is likely that the
recent financial crisis will lead to changes in existing federal laws and regulatory frameworks affecting the insurance industry. Congress also periodically considers and is considering laws affecting privacy of information and genetic testing that
could significantly and adversely affect the insurance industry.



In view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is possible that the U.S. federal government will heighten its oversight of companies in the financial services industry such as us,
including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation.



Tax Legislation



Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the
policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation
that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers. For
example, under current law, the estate tax is completely eliminated for the year 2010. Thereafter, the tax is reinstated using the exclusion limit and rates in effect in 2001. It is unclear if Congress will keep current law in place or take action
to reinstate the estate tax, possibly retroactively to the beginning of 2010. This uncertainty makes estate planning difficult and may impact the sale of our products.



Legislative or regulatory changes could also impact the amount of taxes that we pay, thereby affecting our consolidated net
income. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable life insurance and
annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. On
February 1, 2010, the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals.” Although the Administration has not released proposed statutory language, one proposal would change the
method used to determine the







amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulation or legislation, could increase actual tax expense and
reduce our consolidated net income.



For
additional discussion of possible tax legislative and regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”



The products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. The level of profitability of certain of
our products are significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which are taken into consideration when pricing products and are a component of our capital management strategies. Accordingly,
a change in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns.



ERISA



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S.
employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions. Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure
rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in
interest. ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as
an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter
transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



USA Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001, enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains
anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote
cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different,
conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies,
and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Investment Products and Asset Management Operations



Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being registered
under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account
investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are
subject to federal and state regulation, including but not limited to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule, described under “—Securities Operations” below. In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisors
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our Prudential Agents and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the
SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those individuals. The federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our
investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control.







Federal and state regulators are devoting substantial attention to the mutual fund and
variable annuity businesses. As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, numerous legislative and regulatory reforms have been proposed or adopted with respect to mutual fund governance, disclosure requirements
concerning mutual fund share classes, commission breakpoints, revenue sharing, advisory fees, market timing, late trading, portfolio pricing, annuity products, hedge funds, disclosures to retirement plan participants, custodial arrangements and
other issues. It is difficult to predict at this time whether changes resulting from new laws and regulations will affect our investment product offerings or asset management operations and, if so, to what degree.



Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation
that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and
services. In this regard, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors’ costs of
maintaining these plans. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but
could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. Among other changes introduced by PPA were facilitation of automatic enrollment and escalation provisions for defined contribution plans. To
the extent that these provisions result in adoption of defined contribution plan changes by plan sponsors, they may enhance growth of participant account values.



Since the PPA was enacted, regulations implementing a number of key provisions have been issued in proposed or
final form. The final default investment regulations were issued in October 2007, pursuant to which plan sponsors select approved default investment options for defined contribution plan participants who are automatically enrolled but do not make
affirmative investment elections. While our full service stable value products are not among the qualified default investment options, we offer a wide variety of retirement products that are approved under this regulation. These rules do not require
previously invested funds to be transferred. In addition, participants may continue to affirmatively select our stable value products. As these and other regulations implementing the PPA are likely to interact with one another as plan sponsors
evaluate them, we cannot predict what impact, if any, these regulations may have on our business, results of operations or financial condition.



For a discussion of potential federal tax legislation and other federal regulation affecting our variable annuity products, see
“—Insurance Operations—Federal Regulation” above.



Securities Operations



A number
of our subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and with some or all of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, a number of our subsidiaries are also registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Our
broker-dealer affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their
member broker-dealers. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our registered broker-dealers.



Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of
the securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping,
financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.



The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the U.S. is subject to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. The CFTC is the federal agency charged with the administration of
the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations adopted under that Act. A number of our subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors. Our futures business in our
global commodities group is also regulated in the U.S. by the National Futures Association and in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority, or the FSA.







The SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state
securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer or an
investment advisor or its employees.



As
registered broker-dealers and members of various self-regulatory organizations, our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule. The Uniform Net Capital Rule sets the minimum level of net capital
a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer’s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. These net capital requirements are designed to measure the financial soundness and liquidity of
broker-dealers. Our broker-dealers are also subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and the various securities and commodities exchanges of which they are members. Compliance with the net capital requirements could limit those operations
that require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities, and may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Privacy Regulation



Federal and state law and regulation require financial institutions and other businesses to protect the security and confidentiality of
personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify customers and other individuals about their policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information and
their practices relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. State laws regulate use and disclosure of social security numbers, Federal and state laws require notice to affected individuals, law enforcement,
regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information, including social security numbers, and require holders of certain personal information to protect the security of the data. Federal regulations require
financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. Federal and state laws and regulations regulate the ability of financial institutions to make telemarketing calls and to send
unsolicited e-mail or fax messages to consumers and customers. Federal law and regulation regulate the permissible uses of certain personal information, including consumer report information. Federal and state governments and regulatory bodies may
be expected to consider additional or more detailed regulation regarding these subjects and the privacy and security of personal information.



Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and
operating real property are the risk of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of
clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending business. In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against such property. In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, we may be liable, in certain circumstances, as an “owner” or “operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances
at a property mortgaged to us. We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us, although Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the
mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met. However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to CERCLA liability. Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result
in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments prior to taking title to real estate, whether through acquisition for investment, or through foreclosure on real estate collateralizing mortgages that we
hold. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking these environmental assessments and complying with our internal procedures, and as a result, we believe that any costs associated with
compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.







Other



Our U.S. banking operations are subject to federal and state regulation. As a result of its ownership of Prudential Bank & Trust,
FSB, Prudential Financial and Prudential IBH Holdco, Inc. are considered to be savings and loan holding companies and are subject to annual examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision of the U.S. Department of Treasury. Federal and state banking
laws generally provide that no person may acquire control of Prudential Financial, and gain indirect control of either Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB or Prudential Trust Company, which is discussed below, without prior regulatory approval.
Generally, beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial would be presumed to constitute control. We provide trust services through Prudential Trust Company, a state-chartered trust company incorporated under
the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and offer both trust directed services and investment products through Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB.



The sale of real estate franchises by our real estate brokerage franchise operation is regulated by various state laws and the Federal Trade
Commission. The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and state real estate brokerage and unfair trade practice laws regulate payments among participants in the sale or financing of residences or the provision of settlement services such as
mortgages, homeowner’s insurance and title insurance.



We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these
requirements.



Regulation of our International Businesses



Our international businesses are subject to
comprehensive regulation and supervision. As in the U.S., the purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which our international businesses are subject
are regularly re-examined, in some instances resulting in comprehensive restatements of applicable laws, regulations and reorganization of supervising authorities. Existing or future laws or regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise
adversely affect our operations. It is also becoming increasingly common for regulatory developments originating in the U.S., such as those discussed above, to be studied and adopted in some form in other jurisdictions in which we do business. For
example, the insurance regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, including Japan and Korea, have introduced Sarbanes-Oxley type financial control requirements as well. In addition, as discussed below, it is likely that the financial markets
dislocation will lead to changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, affecting our international business. Changes such as these can increase compliance costs and potential regulatory exposure. In some instances, such
jurisdictions may also impose different, conflicting or more rigorous laws and requirements, including regulations governing privacy, consumer protection, employee protection, corporate governance and capital adequacy.



In addition, our international operations face political, legal,
operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, dividend
limitations, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
other currencies.



Our international insurance
operations are principally supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and Financial Services Agency. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico,
Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Poland and have insurance operations in India through a joint venture in which we have a minority interest. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the
licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance product approvals, sales practices, claims payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among other items. In some jurisdictions for certain products
regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing
requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses.







In order to monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in
which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency margins are used by
regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The solvency margin ratios in certain jurisdictions are required to be disclosed to the
public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The solvency margin ratios
for each of our international insurance operations currently are above the ranges that would require any regulatory or corrective action.



The Financial Services Agency, which is the insurance regulator in Japan, recently released revisions to the solvency margin requirements
that will change the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital will be calculated. Under the proposals, certain financial assets will now be excluded from the core capital calculation and certain investment risk factors, including
derivatives and foreign exchange, will be revised. These changes will be effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012; however, it is anticipated that companies may begin to publicly disclose both their old and new solvency margin
calculations in the third quarter of 2010. While we believe that the solvency margins of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries would continue to satisfy regulatory requirements, it is possible that a reduction in the reported ratios arising from
changes in the calculation requirements could affect our claims paying ratings or customer perception of our financial strength.



The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of
dividends that they can pay to shareholders. The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, began paying dividends in 2006. Pursuant to Gibraltar Life’s reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are
certain restrictions on Gibraltar Life’s ability to pay dividends and we anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life to pay dividends. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.



Our international investment operations are also supervised primarily by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate,
including the Korean Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Financial Supervisory Commission, and the United Kingdom’s Financial Services Authority. We operate investment related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Korea, Taiwan,
Mexico, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Germany and Singapore, and participate in investment related joint ventures in Brazil, Italy, Mexico and China. These businesses may provide investment-related products such as investment management products
and services, mutual funds, brokerage, separately managed accounts, as well as commodities and derivatives products. The regulatory authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of investment
product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures, securities, commodities and related laws, among other items.



In some cases, our international investment businesses are also subject to U.S. securities laws and
regulations. One is regulated as a broker-dealer in the U.S. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and others are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our international insurance and
investment businesses may also be subject to other U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S. companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under
current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances and we may be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers.



In addition to the foregoing, non-U.S. regulatory
and legislative bodies may enact or adopt laws and regulations that can affect Prudential Financial as the ultimate holding company of our international businesses. For example, a number of jurisdictions and groups of regulators are actively
exploring the adoption of “group-wide” capital adequacy and solvency standards, as well as other regulatory requirements which, if adopted, will subject Prudential entities, including Prudential Financial, Inc., to regulatory requirements
and oversight that do not exist today. These requirements could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and







manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within and outside the U.S. The possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential “group” of companies also
exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.



Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their
proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the
results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. In addition, in some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law. In those instances,
we may also be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.



Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, substantially similar to such laws in the U.S., all licensed life insurers in Japan are required
to be members and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation, or PPC. These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we paid approximately $15 million,
$15 million and $22 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments on our insurance companies doing business in Japan, we have
established reserves that we believe are adequate for assessments relating to insolvent Japanese insurance companies.





Our international operations are regulated in the
jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and
adversely affect our liquidity and profitability.



Potential
Changes in Regulation as a Result of Recent Financial Crisis and Financial Market Dislocations



Governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis and financial market dislocations could subject us to substantial additional
regulations in the United States and internationally.



During 2009, the Obama Administration and Congress announced proposals to reform the national regulation of financial services and financial institutions. Depending on the manner of adoption of these or other proposals, we could become
subject to increased federal regulation. On December 11, 2009, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 4173, the “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009.” H.R. 4173, if enacted, could affect the Company in a
number of ways. In particular, Prudential Financial would become subject to regulation as a thrift holding company by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”), which could exercise its authority in a manner
different from current regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including the imposition of capital or other prudential requirements on Prudential







Financial. In addition, Prudential Financial, or one of its subsidiaries, could be designated as a financial company subject to stricter prudential standards imposed by a newly established
financial services oversight council, composed principally of federal regulators and with the FRB acting as its agent, if this council were to determine that material financial distress at the Company or the scope of the Company’s activities
could pose a threat to financial stability or the economy. If so designated, we would become subject to unspecified stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, debt to
income ratios, and counterparty exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. Moreover, if so designated, failure by the
Company to satisfy the capitalization requirements imposed could or would result, depending on the degree of under-capitalization, in additional restrictions on or requirements with respect to our business activities, such as restrictions on
dividends or stock repurchases, asset growth or transactions with affiliates or requirements to develop and/or implement a capital restoration plan, obtain prior approval for acquisitions or new business lines, divest business lines, replace
directors or officers or implement restrictions on senior management compensation.



In addition to heightened regulation of certain financial institutions, H.R. 4173, if enacted, would authorize the FRB to recommend the imposition of stricter prudential standards to activities and
practices identified as posing heightened systemic risk. It is possible that any standards so imposed could have significant effects on the Company’s business.



We cannot predict whether Prudential Financial, any of its subsidiaries, or any of the Company’s
activities might be designated for stricter standards, if the bill’s provisions became law. Nor can we predict what standards might be imposed, or what impact such standards would have on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.



If enacted, H.R. 4173 would also
establish a “Federal Insurance Office” within the Department of the Treasury to be headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of
insurance, the director of this office would perform various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the financial services oversight council referred to above and participating
in that council’s decisions regarding insurers (potentially including the Company) to be designated for stricter regulation. The director would also be required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance
regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.



If enacted, H.R. 4173, would also subject the Company to a risk-based assessment imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company
(“FDIC”) to create a Systemic Resolution Fund to pay for the special dissolution of financial companies for which a determination has been made that such resolution is necessary to prevent harm to the financial stability of the United
States. It is not possible to quantify what that assessment might be, although it could be significant. Prudential Financial is among the class of companies that theoretically could be subject to the special dissolution regime, which would authorize
the FDIC to act as Prudential Financial’s receiver in a proceeding defined by H.R. 4173 in lieu of a proceeding under the Federal bankruptcy code.



In addition, if enacted, H.R. 4173 would create a new framework for regulation of over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets that
could impact Prudential Global Funding’s (“PGF”) activities. If the CFTC did not exercise its discretion to exclude PGF from the class of regulated derivatives dealers or other regulated market participants because of the limited
nature of its activities, PGF would be compelled to meet capital, margin, clearing and execution rules otherwise imposed by the bill, which could significantly impact the cost of its operations.



Another section of H.R. 4173, the “Investor Protection
Act,” if enacted, would, among other things, require the SEC to impose on registered broker-dealers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about securities a new standard of conduct the same as the overall standard for
investment advisers (i.e. a fiduciary standard). The Investor Protection Act would also require broker-dealers selling proprietary or a limited range of products to make certain disclosures and obtain customer consents or acknowledgements. We cannot
predict the precise nature of the regulations the SEC would implement were H.R. 4173 enacted, but they could impact the manner in which certain of our businesses operate.







The Senate has not approved comparable legislation, although proposals include provisions
addressing special resolution authority for failing financial institutions, systemic risk regulation, and increased derivatives oversight, which could impact Prudential. We cannot predict the form in which proposals will finally be adopted (if at
all) or their applicability to or effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.



On February 1, 2010, the Obama Administration released the “General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue
Proposals,” which includes proposed legislation that would impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee (“FCRF”) on certain financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets as of January 14, 2010. As proposed,
the FCRF would apply to insurance companies or other companies that own insured depositories, which would include the Company. The FCRF would be imposed at a rate of “approximately” 15 basis points on the “worldwide consolidated
liabilities” of companies subject to the FCRF, which includes a broad set of liabilities with a few exceptions, including certain “policy-related liabilities” of insurance companies. The FCRF would be imposed effective as of
July 1, 2010. The amount of the FCRF that would be imposed upon the Company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into law, is unclear, but could be substantial.



Additionally, in January 2010, the Administration announced its intention to propose legislation that would
prohibit a bank or financial institution that contains a bank from owning, investing in or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund, or engaging in proprietary trading operations unrelated to serving customers for its own profit. Depending on
how it is drafted, this proposal, if enacted, could apply to the Company. The impact, if any, that such an adopted proposal would have on the business, financial condition or results of operation of the Company is unclear. We cannot predict the form
in which these proposals will finally be adopted (if at all) or their applicability to or effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.



In addition to these proposals and initiatives in the United States, regulators and law makers around the world are actively reviewing the
causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20
nations. The G20 and the FSB have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated.
These proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the
financial crisis. The law makers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations, including proposals
governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in Germany (BaFIN) and the United Kingdom (FSA), and proposals to
permit U.S.-style class action litigation in the United Kingdom with respect to financial services claims.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 41,943 employees, including 21,849 located outside of the U.S. We believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Available Information



Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy
statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including Prudential Financial.







You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC
(for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without
charge, and reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or
furnished to the SEC.



