ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately $1.107 trillion of assets under management as of
December 31, 2013, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related
services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New
Jersey.



The businesses of Prudential Financial
are separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses comprises our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division, and
International Insurance division as well as our Corporate and Other operations. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block described below and certain related assets and liabilities.



We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our
insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity
securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. As of December 31, 2013, the general account investment portfolio totaled $325.3 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $66.0 billion for
the Closed Block Business. For additional information on our investment portfolio, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments” and Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Prudential
Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and
does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. However, the market value of the Common Stock may not reflect solely the performance of the Financial Services Businesses.



Demutualization and Separation of the Businesses



Demutualization



On December 18, 2001, Prudential Insurance converted
from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under Prudential Insurance’s Plan of
Reorganization, dated as of December 15, 2000, as amended, which we refer to as the Plan of Reorganization. On the date of demutualization, eligible policyholders, as defined in the Plan of Reorganization, received shares of Prudential
Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance. In addition, on
the date of demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC (“PHLLC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the
IHC debt.







The Plan of Reorganization required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known
as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block for future policy dividends after
demutualization by allocating assets that will be used for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, on these policies. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “—Closed Block Business” below for more
information on the Closed Block.



Separation of the Businesses



The businesses of Prudential Financial are
separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. For a discussion of the operating results of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See “—Financial Services Businesses” below for a more detailed discussion of the divisions comprising the Financial Services
Businesses. The Closed Block Business comprises the assets and related liabilities of the Closed Block and certain other assets and liabilities, including the IHC debt. We refer to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business
collectively as the Businesses.



The following
diagram reflects the allocation of Prudential Financial’s consolidated assets and liabilities between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business:







There is no legal
separation of the two Businesses. The foregoing allocation of assets and liabilities does not require Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance, any of their subsidiaries or the Closed Block to transfer any specific assets or liabilities to a
separate legal entity. Financial results of the Closed Block Business, including debt service on the IHC debt, will affect Prudential Financial’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. In addition, any net
losses of the Closed Block Business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, the Class B Stock, will reduce the assets of Prudential Financial legally available for dividends on the Common Stock. Accordingly, you should read the
financial information for the Financial Services Businesses together with the consolidated financial information of Prudential Financial.



In order to separately reflect the financial performance of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business since the date
of demutualization, we have allocated all of our assets and liabilities and earnings between the two Businesses, and we account for them as if they were separate legal entities. All assets and liabilities of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries
not included in the Closed Block Business constitute the assets and liabilities of the Financial Services Businesses. Assets and liabilities allocated to the Closed Block Business are those that we consider appropriate to operate that business. The
Closed Block Business consists principally of:



•within Prudential Insurance, the Closed Block Assets, Surplus and Related Assets (see below), deferred policy acquisition costs and other assets in
respect of the policies included in the Closed Block and, with respect to liabilities, the Closed Block Liabilities and other liabilities associated with Surplus and Related Assets;







•within PHLLC, dividends received from Prudential Insurance, certain tax benefits and reinvestment proceeds thereof, the principal amount of the IHC
debt, related unamortized debt issuance costs and hedging activities, and a guaranteed investment contract; and



•within Prudential Financial, the Class B stock and associated activity.



The Closed Block Assets consist of (1) those assets initially allocated to the Closed Block including
fixed maturities, equity securities, commercial loans and other long- and short-term investments; (2) cash flows from such assets; (3) assets resulting from the reinvestment of such cash flows; (4) cash flows from the Closed Block
Policies; and (5) assets resulting from the investment of cash flows from the Closed Block Policies. The Closed Block Assets also include policy loans, accrued interest on any of the foregoing assets and premiums due on the Closed Block
Policies. The Closed Block Liabilities are Closed Block Policies and other liabilities of the Closed Block associated with the Closed Block Assets. The Closed Block Assets and Closed Block Liabilities are supported by additional assets held outside
of the Closed Block by Prudential Insurance, to provide additional capital with respect to the Closed Block Policies, as well as invested assets held outside of the Closed Block that initially represented the difference between the Closed Block
Assets and the sum of the Closed Block Liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, which collectively we refer to as the Surplus and Related Assets.



On the date of demutualization, the majority of the net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and the IHC debt was allocated to
our Financial Services Businesses. The portion of the proceeds of the IHC debt deposited by PHLLC in a debt service coverage account (“DSCA”) maintained in the Financial Services Businesses in connection with the demutualization, together
with reinvested earnings thereon, constitutes a source of payment and security for the IHC debt. To the extent cash flows associated with the Closed Block Business within the DSCA are not adequate to service payments with respect to the IHC debt, a
loan from the Financial Services Businesses to the Closed Block Business would be established. Such inter-business loan would be repaid by the Closed Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses when cash flows from the Closed Block Business
replenish funds in the DSCA to a specified level. We believe that the proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt allocated to the Financial Services Businesses reflected capital in excess of that necessary to support the Closed
Block Business and that the Closed Block Business as established has sufficient assets and cash flows to service the IHC debt. The Closed Block Business was financially leveraged through the issuance of the IHC debt, and dividends on the Class B
Stock are subject to prior servicing of the IHC debt.



Within the Closed Block Business, the assets and cash flows attributable to the Closed Block accrue solely to the benefit of the Closed Block policyholders through policyholder dividends after payment of
benefits, expenses and taxes. The Surplus and Related Assets accrue to the benefit of the holders of Class B Stock. The earnings on, and distribution of, the Surplus and Related Assets over time will be the source or measure of payment of the
interest and principal of the IHC debt and of dividends on the Class B Stock. The earnings of the Closed Block are reported as part of the Closed Block Business, although no cash flows or assets of the Closed Block accrue to the benefit of the
holders of Common Stock or Class B Stock. The Closed Block Assets are not available to service interest or principal of the IHC debt or dividends on the Class B Stock.



Inter-Business Transfers and Allocation Policies



Prudential Financial’s Board of Directors has adopted
certain policies relating to payments, loans, capital contributions, transfers of assets and other transactions between the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses; and the allocation between the two Businesses of tax costs and
benefits. These inter-business transfer and allocation policies are set forth in Exhibit 4.3 to this Annual Report. In the future, the Board of Directors may modify, rescind or add to any of these policies, subject to the Board of Directors’
general fiduciary duties. In addition, we have agreed with the investors in the Class B Stock and the insurer of the IHC debt that, in most instances, the Board of Directors may not change these policies without their consent.



Cash payments for administrative services from the Closed
Block Business to the Financial Services Businesses are based on formulas that initially approximated the actual expenses incurred by the Financial Services Businesses to provide such services based on insurance policies and annuities in force and
statutory cash premiums. Administrative expenses recorded by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect, are based upon actual expenses incurred under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S.







GAAP, utilizing the Company’s methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Any difference in the cash amount transferred and actual expenses incurred as reported under U.S. GAAP will be
recorded, on an after-tax basis at the applicable current tax rate, as direct adjustments to the respective equity balances of the Closed Block Business and the Financial Services Businesses, without the issuance of shares of either Business to the
other Business. This direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to each class of common stock for earnings per share purposes. Internal investment expenses recorded and paid by the Closed Block Business, and the related income tax effect,
are based upon actual expenses incurred under U.S. GAAP and in accordance with internal arrangements governing recordkeeping, bank fees, accounting and reporting, asset allocation, investment policy and planning and analysis.



Financial Services Businesses



The Financial Services Businesses are comprised of three
divisions, containing six segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division is comprised of the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life
and Group Insurance division is comprised of the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance division is comprised of the International Insurance segment.



See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment
of the Financial Services Businesses.



U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division



The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments.



Individual Annuities



Our Individual Annuities segment manufactures and
distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. In general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent in the U.S. market. We focus
on innovative product design and risk management strategies.



Competition



We compete with other providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including large, well-established insurance and financial
services companies, primarily based on our innovative product features and our risk management strategies. We also compete based on brand recognition, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities.



In recent years, we have experienced a dynamic competitive
landscape, prompted by challenging global financial markets. We proactively monitor changes in the annuity marketplace, and have taken actions to adapt our products to the current environment in order to maintain appropriate return prospects and
improve our risk profile. These actions have included variable annuity product modifications for new sales to scale back benefits, change pricing, and reduce commissions as well as closing of a share class. We also suspended or limited additional
contractholder deposits for variable annuities with certain optional living benefit riders that are no longer being offered. Similarly, certain of our competitors have taken actions to implement modifications which scale back benefits or to exit, or
limit their presence in, the variable annuity marketplace. Despite these actions, our contract retention has been strong, and we believe our product offerings are competitive relative to substitute products currently available in the marketplace. We
will continue to look for opportunities to further enhance and differentiate our current suite of products to meet the retirement needs of our customers while responding to market conditions and managing risks.







Products



We offer variable annuities that provide our customers with
tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a suite of optional guaranteed death and living benefits and annuitization options. The majority of our currently sold contracts include an optional living benefit guarantee
which provides, among other features, the ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a minimum return, credited for a period of time. This guaranteed contract value is a notional amount that forms the basis for
determining periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and cannot be accessed as a lump-sum surrender value. Certain optional living benefits can also be purchased with a companion optional death benefit, also based on a highest daily
contract value. In the first quarter of 2013, we launched the Prudential Defined Income Variable Annuity, or PDI, to complement the variable annuity products we offer with the highest daily benefit, which provides for guaranteed lifetime
contractholder withdrawal payments. In addition, certain inforce contracts include guaranteed benefits which are not currently offered, such as annuitization benefits based on a guaranteed notional amount and benefits payable at specified dates
after the accumulation period. Most contracts also guarantee the contractholder a return of total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals upon death.



Excluding our new PDI product, the majority of our variable
annuities generally provide our contractholders with the opportunity to allocate purchase payments to sub-accounts that invest in underlying proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds, frequently under asset allocation programs, and fixed-rate
accounts. The fixed-rate accounts that are invested in the general account are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and interest credited at
rates we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. Certain investments made in the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities and certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity.



For information regarding the risks inherent in
our products and the mitigants we have in place to limit our exposure to these risks, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses
by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities—Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants.”



Marketing and Distribution



Our annuity products are distributed through a diverse group of third-party broker-dealers and their representatives, in banks,
wirehouses, and through independent financial planners. Additionally, our variable annuity products are distributed through insurance agents, including Prudential Agents and the agency distribution force of The Allstate Corporation, or Allstate. Our
distribution efforts are supported by a network of 290 internal and external wholesalers as of December 31, 2013.



Underwriting and Pricing



We earn asset management fees determined as a percentage of the average assets of the mutual funds in our variable annuity products, net
of subadvisory expenses related to non-proprietary funds. Additionally, we earn mortality and expense fees for various insurance-related options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts or the amount
of guaranteed value under the optional living benefit, as applicable. We also receive administrative service fees from many of the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds.



We price our variable annuities based on an evaluation of the
risks assumed and considering applicable hedging costs. Our pricing is also influenced by competition, and by assumptions regarding contractholder behavior, including persistency, benefit utilization and the timing and efficiency of withdrawals for
contracts with living benefit features, as well as other assumptions. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. To encourage persistency, most of our
variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, the living benefit features of our variable annuity products encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is
fully realized only if the contract persists.







We price our fixed annuities as well as the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities
based on many assumptions, including investment returns, expenses, competition and persistency. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our fixed annuities and the
fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities.



Reserves



We establish reserves in accordance with
U.S. GAAP for future contractholder benefits and expenses. For our guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, we base the reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, withdrawal timing and
efficiency and mortality rates. Certain of the living benefit guarantee features on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value. The fair values of these benefit features are calculated as the
present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature, and are based on assumptions a market participant would use in valuing these embedded
derivatives. For variable and fixed annuity contracts, we establish liabilities for contractholders’ account balances that represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest and/or fund performance, less withdrawals, and expense
and cost of insurance charges.



Retirement



Our Retirement segment, which we refer to in the marketplace
as Prudential Retirement, provides retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors. Our full service business provides recordkeeping, plan administration,
actuarial advisory services, tailored participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investments. We service defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans, and for clients with
combinations of these plans, we offer integrated recordkeeping services. We also provide certain brokerage services through our broker-dealer, Prudential Investment Management Services LLC, and trust services through Prudential Bank &
Trust, FSB (“PB&T”) a limited purpose trust-only institution. Our institutional investment products business offers investment-only stable value products, pension risk transfer products, guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs,
funding agreements, institutional and retail notes, structured settlement annuities and other group annuities for defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, non-qualified plans, and individuals.



Competition



The Retirement segment competes with other large,
well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, investment
performance, and our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. In recent years, we have seen a trend towards unbundling of the purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where
the variety and flexibility of available funds and their performance are key selection criteria to plan sponsors and intermediaries. Additionally, regulations requiring more standard and consistent fee disclosures across industry providers have
heightened pricing pressures. We have also seen slow case turnover in our mid to large case target markets.



In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, as well as our
ability to offer innovative product solutions. Sales of institutional investment products are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance, company credit and financial strength ratings, product design, marketplace visibility,
distribution capabilities, fees, crediting rates, and customer service. In recent years, we have established ourselves as a leader in the stable value wrap market and as an innovator in providing pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors.
We believe the pension risk transfer market continues to offer attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. However, increased competition and existing intermediary relationships reaching saturation levels may impact our momentum in
the stable value wrap market. For certain of our traditional institutional investment products, economic conditions and other competitive factors have resulted in maturing contracts outpacing new issuances.







Products and Services



Full Service.Our full service
business offers plan sponsors and their participants a broad range of products and services to assist in the delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit, and non-qualified plans, including recordkeeping and administrative
services, comprehensive investment offerings and consulting services to assist plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. As part of our investment products, we offer a variety of general and separate account stable value products and other
fee-based separate accounts, as well as retail mutual funds and institutional funds advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers. In addition, certain products are marketed and sold on an investment-only basis through our full
service distribution channels.



Our full service
general account and separate account stable value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time and to repay account balances or market value upon contract termination. These stable value products
are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual rate resets giving effect to previous investment experience. We earn profits from partially participating products from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the
investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses. In addition, we may earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping and other administrative services for both fully and partially participating products.



We also offer fee-based products, through which customer
funds are held in a separate account, retail mutual funds, institutional funds, or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a minimum interest
rate guarantee backed by the general account. Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts, and hedge certain of the related risks utilizing externally purchased hedging
instruments.



Our full service fee-based advisory
offerings are supported by participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including non-discrimination testing, plan document services, signature-ready documents for required filings, and full
actuarial support for defined benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and
acquisition support.



Institutional Investment
Products.Our institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the stable value and payout annuity markets.



Stable Value Markets.Our stable value area manufactures investment-only products for use in retail and
institutional capital markets and qualified plan markets. Our primary stable value product offerings are investment-only wraps through which customers’ funds are held in a client-owned trust. These are participating contracts for which we pass
investment results through to the customer, subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account, and earn fees for providing this guarantee. For contracts currently in force, the minimum interest rate has a floor of zero
percent. The fees we earn for providing this guarantee may be reset as defined by the underlying contracts. Contractholders are provided with flexible fund investment alternatives, which may be managed by Prudential Financial’s asset management
unit or third party asset managers.



We also offer
investment-only general account products in the form of GICs, funding agreements, and institutional and retail notes. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract
termination. Because these obligations are backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, profits from these products result from the spread between the rates of
return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, less expenses.



Payout Annuity Markets.Our payout annuity area offers innovative pension risk transfer products, as well as traditional general and separate account products designed to
provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the participant.







Our innovative pension risk transfer products include portfolio-protected products and a
longevity reinsurance product. Our portfolio-protected products are non-participating group annuity contracts which we issue to pension plan sponsors and assume all of the investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified
participants within a plan. These products have economic features similar to our traditional general account annuity contracts, discussed below, but may also offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Our longevity reinsurance
product is a reinsurance contract from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties.



In 2012, we completed two significant non-participating group annuity pension risk transfer transactions for which the premiums associated
with these transactions represented approximately 38% of Prudential Financial’s 2012 total consolidated revenue.



Our traditional general and separate account products include structured settlements, voluntary income products and other group annuities,
which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of defined contribution participants and the payment obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. For our general account
products, we bear all of the investment, mortality, retirement, asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts. Our profits result from the emerging experience related to investment returns, timing of mortality, timing
of retirement, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. Our separate account products include both participating and non-participating contracts. Our participating contracts are fee-based products
that cover payments to be made to defined benefit plan retirees. These contracts permit a plan sponsor to retain the risks and rewards of investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity payments covered
by the contract. Our non-participating contracts provide pension benefit guarantees to defined benefit plan participants. Under U.S. GAAP, the non-participating contracts are treated as general account products, and have economic features similar to
our general account annuity contracts, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account.



Marketing and Distribution



We distribute our products through a variety of channels. In our full service business, our dedicated sales and support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our
products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and benefits consultants and, to a lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors.



In our stable value area within our institutional investment products business, we utilize our direct sales force and intermediaries to
distribute investment-only stable value wraps and traditional GICs to plan sponsors and stable value fund managers, and to distribute funding agreements and institutional notes to investors. We also manage a global Funding Agreement Notes Issuance
Program, or FANIP, pursuant to which a statutory trust issues medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance. Prudential Insurance may also issue funding agreements directly to the Federal Home Loan Bank
of New York (“FHLBNY”).



In our payout
annuity area within our institutional investment products business, our pension risk transfer products, traditional group annuities and participating separate account annuities are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party
brokers. Structured settlements are distributed through structured settlement specialists. Voluntary income products are distributed through the defined contribution portion of our full service business, directly to plan sponsors, or as part of
annuity shopping services.



Underwriting and Pricing



We set our rates for our stable value
products within our full service and institutional investment products businesses using pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense and profitability assumptions. In addition, for products within our payout annuity
area, our models also use assumptions for mortality and early retirement risks. These assumptions may be less predictable in certain markets, and deviations in actual experience from pricing assumptions could affect the profitability of these
products. For our investment-only stable value wrap product, our pricing risk is mitigated by several features, including: the fees







we earn for providing a guaranteed rate of return may be reset, as defined by the underlying contracts; the contracts allow participants to withdraw funds at book value, while contractholder
withdrawals occur at market value immediately or at book value over time; and our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the fund value.



Reserves



We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the future policyholder benefits and expenses of our annuity products. We base
these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, expenses, mortality rates, retirement and other behavioral assumptions, as well as provisions for adverse deviation as appropriate. For accumulation products, we
establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the customer but have not yet been reflected in credited rates.



Asset Management



The Asset Management segment provides a broad array of
investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio management, retail funds management, private lending and asset securitization activity and other structured products. These products and services are provided to third
party clients as well as other segments of our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We also invest in asset management and investment distribution businesses in targeted countries, including through investments in operating
joint ventures, to expand our mass affluent customer base outside the U.S. and to increase our global assets under management.



We earn asset management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management
arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with
the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn investment returns from strategic investing and revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing.



Competition



The Asset Management segment competes with numerous asset
managers and other financial institutions. For our asset management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer
products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses have helped
attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private placement and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. Competition
will vary depending on the product or service being offered.



Products and Services



We offer asset management services for public and private fixed income, public equity and real estate, as well as commercial mortgage
origination and servicing, and mutual funds and other retail services through the following eight businesses:



Prudential Fixed Income.Prudential Fixed Income manages assets for clients, investors, and the general
account worldwide through our operations in the U.S., London, Singapore and Tokyo. Our products include traditional broad market fixed income and single-sector strategies, traditional and customized asset/liability strategies, hedge strategies and
collateralized loan obligations. Prudential Fixed Income also serves as a non-custodial securities lending agent. Portfolios are managed by seasoned portfolio managers across sector specialist teams using a research-based approach, supported by
significant credit research, quantitative research, and risk management organizations.







Jennison Associates.Jennison Associates LLC, a wholly-owned
registered investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services by managing a range of publicly traded equity, balanced and fixed income portfolios that span market capitalizations, investment styles and
geographies. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research to manage portfolios for institutional, private and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds.



Quantitative Management
Associates.Quantitative Management Associates LLC, a wholly-owned registered investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients by managing a broad array
of publicly traded equity asset classes using various investment styles. Quantitative Management Associates manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and subadvisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary
quantitative processes tailored to meet client objectives.



Prudential Capital Group.Prudential Capital Group provides asset management services by investing in private placement investment grade and below investment grade debt and
mezzanine debt and equity securities, with a majority of the private placement investments being originated by our staff. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts,
insurance company separate accounts, and private fund structures.



Prudential Mortgage Capital Company.    Prudential Mortgage Capital Company provides commercial mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account,
institutional clients, and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac, and as a minority interest joint venture partner and service provider to originate commercial mortgages for future
securitization.



Prudential Real Estate
Investors.    Prudential Real Estate Investors provides asset management services for single-client and commingled private and public real estate portfolios and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment
vehicles investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients through offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from fully diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end
funds that invest in specific types of properties or designated geographic regions or follow other specific investment strategies. Our global real estate organization has an established presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.



Prudential
Investments.    Prudential Investments manufactures, distributes and services investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. retail market. These products are designed to
be sold primarily by financial professionals including both Prudential Agents and third party advisors. We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of 58 mutual funds as of December 31, 2013. These products cover a wide array of
investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with varying objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial needs.



Prudential International
Investments.    Prudential International Investments manufactures proprietary products and distributes both proprietary and non-proprietary products tailored to meet client needs. Our international investment operations
primarily consist of our asset management operations in India and Taiwan, and our operating joint ventures in Italy and Brazil that are accounted for under the equity method.



In addition, we make strategic investments to support the
creation and management of funds offered to third-party investors in private and public real estate, fixed income and public equities asset classes. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds
and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). We also
make loans to, and guarantee obligations of, our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.







Marketing and Distribution



We provide investment management services for our institutional customers through a proprietary sales force
organized by each asset management business. Each business has an independent marketing and client service team working with clients. Institutional asset management services are also offered through the Retirement segment of our Financial Services
Businesses.



Most of the retail customer assets
under management are invested in our mutual funds and our variable annuities and variable life insurance products. These assets are gathered by other segments of our Financial Services Businesses and third party networks. Additionally, we work with
third party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.



We also provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account, as described under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments” below.



U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division



The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.



Individual Life



Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In
general, we consider households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed
through independent third party distributors and Prudential Agents.



On January 2, 2013, we acquired the individual life insurance business of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (“The Hartford”) through a reinsurance transaction. Under the
agreement, we paid The Hartford cash consideration of $615 million, primarily in the form of a ceding commission, to provide reinsurance for approximately 700,000 life insurance policies with a net retained face amount in force of approximately $141
billion. This acquisition increased our scale in the U.S. individual life insurance market, particularly universal life products, and provided complementary distribution opportunities through expanded wirehouse and bank distribution channels.



Competition



The Individual Life segment competes with large,
well-established life insurance companies in a mature market. We compete primarily based on price, service, distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial strength. Due to the large number of competitors, pricing is competitive.
Factors that could influence our ability to competitively price products while achieving targeted returns include: the cost and availability of financing for statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies; the
availability, utilization and timing of tax deductions associated with statutory reserves; product designs that impact the amount of statutory reserves and the associated tax deductions; and the level and volatility of interest rates.



We have implemented pricing actions and premium limits in
2013 to manage sales of no-lapse guarantee universal life products. These steps are in line with our strategy to manage the Individual Life business for steady, consistent sales growth across a balanced product portfolio and to avoid
overconcentration in any one product type. We will continue to adjust our overall product portfolio based on the market and our strategy. We feel our pricing actions in 2013 have been consistent with those taken by our peer competitors who are
committed to the guaranteed universal life market. Smaller competitors have taken this opportunity to improve their price position to gain market share in this space.







Products



Our primary insurance products are term life, variable life
and universal life, which represent 39%, 38% and 21%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance in force, net of reinsurance at the end of 2013. Changing marketplace demand has shifted our sales mix primarily towards term life
and universal life products.



Term Life
Insurance.We offer a variety of term life insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period. Most term products include a conversion feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into
permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of premium if the insured is alive at the end of the level premium period. There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance protection.



Variable Life
Insurance.We offer several individual variable life insurance products that provide a return linked to an underlying investment portfolio selected by the policyholder while providing the policyholder with the flexibility
to change both the death benefit and premium payments. The policyholder generally has the option of investing premiums in a fixed-rate option that is part of our general account or investing in separate account investment options consisting of
equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed-rate option will accrue interest at rates that we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. We also
offer a variable life product that allows for a more flexible guarantee against lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand continues to favor term
and universal life insurance. A significant portion of Individual Life’s profits, however, is associated with our large in force block of variable policies. Profit patterns on these policies are not level and insureds generally begin paying
reduced policy charges as the policies age. This reduction in policy charges, coupled with net policy count and insurance in force runoff over time, reduces our expected future profits from this product line.



Universal Life Insurance.We
offer universal life insurance products that feature flexible premiums, a choice of guarantees against lapse, and a crediting rate that we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. In addition, we offer universal life insurance products
that allow the policyholder to allocate a portion of their account balance into an index account that provides a return consistent with the S&P 500 index performance over the following year, subject to certain participation rates and contractual
minimums and maximums. Our universal life products also offer a policy rider which allows the policyholder to access accelerated death benefits when a chronic or terminal illness, meeting certain contractual requirements, exists. Individual
Life’s profits from universal life insurance are impacted by mortality and expense margins and net interest spread.



Marketing and Distribution



Third Party Distribution.Our individual life products are offered through a variety of third party
channels, including independent brokers, wirehouses, banks, general agencies and producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and support
estate and wealth transfer planning.



Prudential Agents.Our Prudential Agents distribute Prudential variable, term and universal life insurance,
variable and fixed annuities and investment products with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options as well as selected insurance and investment products manufactured by others primarily to customers in the U.S. mass and mass affluent
markets, as well as small business owners. Prudential Agents also have access to non-proprietary property and casualty products under distribution agreements entered into with the purchasers of our property and casualty insurance operations, which
we sold in 2003, and other third party providers. The number of Prudential Agents was 2,722, 2,615 and 2,529 at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.



As mentioned above, the Individual Life segment distributes
products offered by the Annuities and Asset Management segments and is paid a market rate by these businesses to distribute their products. These payments may be more or less than the associated distribution costs, and any profit or loss is included
in the results of the Individual Life segment.







Underwriting and Pricing



Underwriters generally follow detailed policies and
procedures to assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products based on the age, gender, health and occupation of the applicant and amount of insurance requested. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life
insurance on expected death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We use assumptions for mortality and morbidity, interest rates, expenses, policy persistency, premium payment patterns, separate account fund performance and
product-generated tax deductions, as well as the level, cost and availability of financing certain statutory reserves, in pricing policies. Deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions may adversely or positively impact the
profitability of our products.



Reserves



We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for
future policyholder benefits and expenses. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, and mortality and morbidity rates, as well as provisions for adverse deviation, as
appropriate. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. For variable and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that
represent cumulative gross premium payments plus credited interest or fund performance, less withdrawals, expense and cost of insurance charges.



Reinsurance



The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product
profitability. On policies sold since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk assumed. Commencing in 2013, the maximum exposure we retain for new business is $20 million on both single life policies and second-to-die
policies. Over time we have accumulated policies with higher retained exposure which may result in earnings volatility. In addition, certain transactions, such as assumed reinsurance or acquisitions of in force contracts, may cause us to temporarily
or permanently exceed these limits on an aggregate basis. We remain liable if a third party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the
concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure.



Group Insurance



Our Group Insurance segment offers a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and
trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee plans and affinity groups. We also sell accidental death and dismemberment and other ancillary coverages, and provide plan administrative
services in connection with our insurance coverages.



Competition



We compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in mature U.S. markets, and are a top provider of both
group life and disability insurance. We compete primarily based on price, strong brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial stability and range of product offerings. Pricing of group insurance products reflects the
large number of competitors in the marketplace. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations, affinity groups or other organizations having over 10,000 insured individuals. We have a strong portfolio of products and the
capability to offer customized benefit solutions, providing opportunities for continuing stabilized premiums. Employee-paid (voluntary) coverage has become increasingly important as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit
decisions/funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the workplace. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on penetration in the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation
rates.







Products



Group Life Insurance.Our
portfolio of group life insurance products consists of employer-paid (basic) and employee-paid coverages, including term life insurance for employees and employees’ dependents as well as group universal life insurance. We offer group variable
universal life insurance, basic and voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance, business travel accident insurance and a critical illness product. Many of our employee-paid coverages allow employees to retain their coverage when they
change employers or retire. We also offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the insured suffers a qualifying disability.



Our group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance
products are group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts, and are typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees.



Group Disability Insurance.We
offer short- and long-term group disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury, as well as plan administrative services and absence management services. Disability benefits are limited to a portion, generally
50% to 70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Short-term disability generally provides a weekly benefit for three to six months, while long-term disability benefits are paid monthly, following a waiting period
(usually 90 or 180 days, during which short-term disability may be provided) and generally continue until the insured returns to work or reaches normal retirement age.



Marketing and Distribution



Group Insurance has its own dedicated sales force that is
organized around market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefit brokers and consultants.



Underwriting and Pricing



We follow standard underwriting practices and procedures, and have developed standard rating systems for each product line based on Company, industry and/or other experience. We assess the risk profile of
prospective insured groups; however, certain voluntary products or coverages may require underwriting on an individual basis. We are not obligated to accept any individual policy applications, and may require a prospective insured to submit evidence
of insurability.



We maintain a disciplined
approach to pricing our group life and disability insurance products. We base pricing of group insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits and other costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses
and persistency, depending upon the specific product features. On many of our group policies, we provide for multiple year rate guarantees, which can contribute to fluctuations in profitability. For certain policies with experience rated return
provisions, the final premium is adjusted to reflect the client’s actual experience during the past year. For these policies, the group contractholder bears some of the risk, or receives some of the benefit, associated with claim experience
fluctuations, thus lessening the fluctuations in profitability.



Reserves



We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses. We base these reserves on assumptions we
believe to be appropriate for mortality and morbidity rates, investment yields, and expenses. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. We also establish a liability for policyholders’
account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest or fund performance, less withdrawals, and expense and cost of insurance charges, as applicable.



Reinsurance



We use reinsurance to limit losses from large claims, and in
response to client requests. We remain liable if a third party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor concentration of counterparty risk to
mitigate this exposure.







International Insurance Division



The International Insurance division conducts its business
through the International Insurance segment.



International
Insurance



Our International Insurance
segment manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products, including certain health products with fixed benefits. We provide these products to the broad middle income market across Japan through multiple
distribution channels including banks, independent agencies and Life Consultants, who are associated with our Gibraltar Life operations. We also provide similar products to the mass affluent and affluent markets in Japan, Korea and other countries
outside the U.S. through our Life Planner operations. We commenced sales in non-U.S. markets through our Life Planner operations, as follows: Japan, 1988; Taiwan, 1990; Italy, 1990; Korea, 1991; Brazil, 1998; Argentina, 1999; Poland, 2000; and
Mexico, 2006. We continue to seek opportunities for expansion into high-growth markets in targeted countries.



For the year ended December 31, 2013, our Life Planner and Gibraltar Life operations in Japan represented 31% and 60%, respectively,
of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the International Insurance segment, and in aggregate, represented 55% of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the Financial Services Businesses, translated on the basis of weighted
average monthly exchange rates.



In addition to
the operations discussed above, we have a 26% interest in a life insurance joint venture in India, the maximum currently allowed by regulation in India. As of January 2014, we also have a 70% interest in an established life insurance business in
Malaysia.



We manage each operation on a
stand-alone basis with local management and sales teams, with oversight by senior executives based in Asia, Latin America and Newark, New Jersey. Each operation has its own marketing, underwriting, claims, investment management and actuarial
functions. In addition, significant portions of the general account investment portfolios are managed by our Asset Management segment, primarily through international subsidiaries. Operations generally invest in local currency securities, primarily
bonds issued by the local government or its agencies. In our larger operations, we have more diversified portfolios that also include U.S. dollar-denominated investments, in large part to support products issued in U.S. dollars and as part of our
foreign exchange hedging strategy. In addition, our Gibraltar Life operations have Australian dollar-denominated investments that support products issued in that currency.



Acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses



On February 1, 2011, Prudential
Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc. of the “Star and Edison Businesses,” which significantly increased our scale in the Japanese life insurance market. The Star and Edison companies were merged into
Gibraltar Life on January 1, 2012. Integration of these companies is nearly complete. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 85% of our anticipated $400 million of pre-tax integration costs has been incurred and we have substantially
reached our expected level of synergies, with cost savings of approximately $250 million per year. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Competition



The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are mature and
pricing is competitive. Rather than competing based on price, we generally compete on the basis of customer service, including our needs-based approach to selling, the quality and diversity of our distribution capabilities, and our financial
strength. The aging population throughout Asia creates an increasing need for product innovation, introducing insurance products which allow for savings and income as the population transitions to retirement. The ability to sell through multiple and
complementary distribution channels is a competitive advantage. However, competition for sales personnel, as well as access to third party distribution channels, is intense.







Products



Our international insurance operations have a diversified
product mix, primarily denominated in local currencies and emphasizing death protection while supporting the growing demand for retirement and savings products. We classify our products into four general categories: life insurance protection,
accident & health, retirement and annuity, which represented 60%, 8%, 22% and 10%, respectively, of full year 2013 annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate basis. Each product category is described below:



Life Insurance Protection
Products.    We offer various traditional whole life products that provide either level or increasing coverage, and offer limited or lifetime premium payment options. We also offer increasing, decreasing and level benefit
term insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period, as well as protection-oriented variable universal life products. Some of these protection products are denominated in U.S. dollars and some are sold as bundled products
which, in addition to death protection, include health benefits or savings elements. In addition, prior to October 1, 2013, we offered a yen-denominated single premium reduced death benefit whole life product. Premiums associated with this
product represented approximately 5% and 10% of the Company’s total consolidated revenue for 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Accident and Health Products.In most of our operations, we offer accident and health products with fixed
benefits, some of which include a high savings element. These products provide benefits to cover accidental death and dismemberment, hospitalization, surgeries, cancer and other dread diseases, most of which are sold as supplementary riders and not
as stand-alone products. We also offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the customer suffers a qualifying disability.



Retirement Products.We offer a variety of retirement products, including endowments, savings variable
universal life and retirement income. Endowments provide payment of the face amount on the earlier of death or policy maturity. Variable universal life products provide a non-guaranteed return linked to an underlying investment portfolio of equity
and fixed income funds selected by the customer. Retirement Income is a product which combines insurance protection similar to term life with a lifetime income stream which commences at a predefined age.



Annuity Products.Annuity
products are primarily represented by U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated fixed annuities sold by our Gibraltar Life operations. Sales and surrenders of non-yen products are sensitive to foreign currency relationships which are impacted by, among
other things, the comparative interest rates in the respective countries. Most of our annuity products impose a market value adjustment if the contract is not held to maturity.



Marketing and Distribution



Our International Insurance segment distributes its products
through multiple distribution channels. This includes two captive agent models, Life Planners and Life Consultants, as well as bank and independent agency third party distribution channels. For additional information on headcount for our captive
agents, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment—International Insurance Division.”



Life Planners.Our Life Planner
model differentiates us from competitors in the countries where we do business by focusing on selling protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and affluent customers, as well as retirement-oriented products to
small businesses. We believe that our recruiting and selection process, training programs and compensation packages are key to the Life Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent
productivity and policy persistency than our local competitors. The attributes considered when recruiting new Life Planners generally include but are not limited to: University/College degree, no prior life insurance sales experience, a minimum of
two years of sales or sales management experience, and a pattern of job stability and success. The number of Life Planners as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 7,248 and 7,058, respectively.



Life Consultants.Our Life
Consultants are the proprietary distribution force for products offered by our Gibraltar Life operations. Their focus is to provide individual protection products to the broad middle income market in Japan, particularly through relationships with
affinity groups. Our Life Consultant operation is based







on a variable compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Consultants as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 9,327 and 11,333, respectively.



Bank Distribution Channel.Our Gibraltar Life operation has been selling its products through banks since 2006. Bank distribution channel sales primarily consist of products
intended to provide savings features and premature death protection, and retirement income as well as fixed annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars. Sales in this channel from 2012 through September 30, 2013, were
highly concentrated in the yen-denominated single premium reduced death benefit whole life product discussed above. We view the bank distribution channel as a supplement to our core Life Planner and Life Consultant distribution channels and will
pursue it on an opportunistic basis with a focus on profitable growth.



A significant portion of our sales in Japan through our bank channel distribution are derived through a single Japanese mega-bank. However, we have relationships with Japan’s four largest banks as
well as many regional banks, and we continue to explore opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through this channel, as appropriate.



Independent Agency Distribution Channel.Our independent agency channel sells protection products and high
cash value products for retirement benefits through the business market and sells a variety of other products including protection, medical and fixed annuity products through the individual market. Our focus is to maintain a diverse mix of
independent agency relationships including accounting firms, corporate agencies and independent agencies with a balanced focus on individual and business markets. We differentiate ourselves by providing quality service to producers in this
distribution channel.



Underwriting and Pricing



Our International Insurance segment is
subject to substantial local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each International Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs
variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting
limits together with each operation’s reinsurers.



Pricing of similar products is generally consistent in each of our countries. The profitability of our products is primarily impacted by differences between actual mortality and morbidity experience and
the assumptions used in pricing these policies and as a result, can fluctuate from period to period. However, we anticipate over the long-term to achieve the aggregate mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions used in pricing.



Reserves



We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for
future policyholder benefits and expenses. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates, as well as provisions for adverse deviation, as appropriate.
For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well as most annuity products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals, and expense and cost
of insurance charges.



Reinsurance



International Insurance reinsures portions of its insurance
risks, primarily mortality, with selected third party reinsurers. We remain liable if a third party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor
the concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.







Corporate and Other



Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after
allocations to our business segments, and divested businesses except for those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.



Corporate Operations



Corporate operations consist primarily of:
(1) investment returns on capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) returns from investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other
tax enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) income and expense from qualified pension and other
employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level income and expense, after allocations to business segments, including corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred
compensation, and costs related to certain contingencies and enhanced regulatory supervision; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no
premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life insurance sales practices remediation; (7) results related to a life insurance joint venture and an asset management joint venture in China; (8) results
related to our Capital Protection Framework; and (9) the impact of transactions with and between other segments.



Corporate operations include results related to our Capital Protection Framework, which we employ as part of our capital management
strategy. The framework considers the potential capital impacts under a range of market-related stresses for which we hold on-balance sheet capital and maintain access to committed sources of capital. It includes, among other initiatives, the
following:



•Our capital hedge program which broadly addresses the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress
scenarios.



•The potential capital consequences of our living benefits hedging program, covering certain risks associated with our variable annuity products. The
results of the living benefits hedging program are recorded in our Individual Annuities segment, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—U.S. Retirement Solutions and
Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities.”



•The potential capital consequences under stress scenarios of our decision to less than fully hedge certain capital market risks associated with various
operations of the Financial Services Businesses.



We assess the composition of these hedging programs on an ongoing basis, and we may change them from time to time based on our evaluation of the Company’s risk position or other factors. For
additional information on our Capital Protection Framework, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital—Capital Protection
Framework.”



Divested Businesses



Divested Businesses reflect the results of the following
businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down, that did not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We exclude these results from our
adjusted operating income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Segment Measures” for an explanation of adjusted operating income.



Long-Term Care.In
March 2012, we discontinued sales of our individual long-term care products, and in July, 2012, we announced our decision to cease sales of group long-term care insurance effective August 1, 2012, or a later date where required by specific
state law. Prudential ceased accepting new business applications as of June 30, 2013 for its group long-term care insurance product line, with the exception of a few cases that will remain open for new business due to contractual provisions.







We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and
expenses. We base these reserves on assumptions we believe to be appropriate for morbidity, mortality, persistency, expenses and interest rates. Our assumptions have also factored in our estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated premium
increases which will require state approval. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid and claims incurred but not yet reported.



Residential Real Estate Brokerage Franchise and Relocation Services.In 2011, we sold our real estate
brokerage franchise and relocation services businesses to Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. (“Brookfield”), but retained ownership of a financing subsidiary with debt and equity investments in a limited number of real estate brokerage
franchises, which we have substantially exited.



Property and Casualty Insurance.In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies to Liberty
Mutual Group, or Liberty Mutual. We have reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks that Liberty Mutual did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our remaining
property and casualty obligations under these reinsurance contracts based on the current information available.



Individual Health and Disability Insurance.We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992,
and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical policies. Most of our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major
medical policies, the 1997 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act guarantees renewal. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these
policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been sufficient to pay claims. We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses.



Other.In addition to the businesses described above, the results of Divested
Businesses also include the following:



•On July 1, 2013, we sold our wealth management solutions business to Envestnet, Inc. We will continue to have an ongoing relationship with these
operations until the contractual terms of the sale are fulfilled.



•In 2008, we announced our intention to exit our financial advisory business, which consisted of our investment in a retail securities brokerage and
clearing operations joint venture which was sold on December 31, 2009. Certain expenses relating to the businesses we originally contributed to the joint venture were retained, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.



•In 2000, we announced a restructuring of Prudential Securities’ activities and subsequently exited the lead-managed equity underwriting business
for corporate issuers and the institutional fixed income business.



•We have not actively engaged in the assumed life reinsurance market in the United States since the early 1990s; however, we remain subject to mortality
risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. In 2000, we sold our interest in Prudential of America Life Insurance Company, or PALIC, but remain subject to mortality risk for certain
assumed individual life insurance policies sold by PALIC under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses. As of December 31, 2013, the net amount at
risk was $16 million.



•In addition to the above, we indemnified the purchaser of PALIC for certain liabilities with respect to claims related to sales practices or market
conduct issues arising from operations prior to the sale.



Discontinued Operations



Discontinued operations reflect the results of businesses which qualified for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We discontinued our global commodities operations in
the second quarter of 2011 and subsequently sold these operations in the third quarter of 2011. We also have certain direct real estate investments that are sold, or held for sale, that may require “discontinued operations” accounting
treatment under U.S. GAAP.







Closed Block Business





As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, if the performance of the Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been
paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed may be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder
dividends unless offset by future Closed Block experience that is less favorable than expected. These cash flows will not be available to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for any excess cash flows. Each year,
the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains,
mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets of the Closed Block Business.



Our strategy for the Closed Block Business is to maintain the
Closed Block as required by our Plan of Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the New Jersey
Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, to enter into agreements to transfer to a third party all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies. The long-term risks associated with the Closed Block Business are 90% reinsured (subject to
certain caps) including, 17% reinsured by affiliates. We also reinsure 90% of the short-term risks associated with the Closed Block Business to an affiliate, which is supported by a letter of credit facility with unaffiliated financial institutions.
Reinsurance of the Closed Block Business is reported in the Corporate and Other operations within the Financial Services Businesses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity
and Capital Resources” for more information on the Closed Block reinsurance arrangements, as well as Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting for these reinsurance arrangements.



Intangible and Intellectual Property



We capture and protect the innovation in our financial
services products by applying for federal business method patents and implementing trade secret controls, as appropriate. We also use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign servicemarks, including in particular “Prudential”,
“Prudential Financial”, the “Prudential logo” and our “Rock” symbol. We believe that the value associated with many of our patents and trade secrets, and the goodwill associated with many of our servicemarks are
significant competitive assets in the U.S.







On April 20, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Prudential plc of the United
Kingdom, with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” The agreement restricts use of the “Prudential” and “Pru” name and
mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our “Rock” symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially
affect our ability to operate or expand internationally.



Competition



In each of our businesses, we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad. Many of our competitors are large and
well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or
credit ratings than we do. We compete in our businesses based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of
distribution and distribution arrangements, price, risk management capabilities, capital management capabilities, and financial strength and credit ratings. The relative importance of these factors varies across our products, services and the
markets we serve. The competitive landscape is, and will be, impacted by the various regulatory frameworks applied to us and our competitors.



Competition for personnel in our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, Prudential Agents, Life
Planners, Life Consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. In the ordinary course of business, we lose personnel from time to time in whom we have invested significant training. We direct substantial efforts to recruit and
retain our insurance agents and employees and to increase their productivity. Competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense.



Additional factors affecting the competitive landscape for our products and services are discussed within the descriptions of our business
segments above.



Regulation



Overview



Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is
primarily to protect our customers and the overall financial system and not necessarily our shareholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more
restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The financial market dislocations in recent years produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable
to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act discussed below.



Regulation Affecting Prudential Financial



Prudential Financial is the holding company for all of our operations and is subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) as a “Designated Financial Company” pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Prudential Financial is also subject to regulation as an insurance holding company
under applicable insurance laws. As a company with publicly-traded securities, Prudential Financial is subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters.







Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



As part of the federal government’s response to the
financial crisis, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was signed into law in July 2010. Dodd-Frank directs government agencies and bodies to conduct certain studies and promulgate regulations
implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue. Dodd-Frank subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation, primarily as a “Designated Financial Company” as discussed below. We cannot predict with any
certainty the results of the studies or the requirements of the regulations recently or not yet adopted or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings,
results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital.



Regulation as a Designated Financial Company



Dodd-Frank established a Financial Stability Oversight Council (“Council”) which is authorized to subject non-bank financial
companies such as Prudential Financial to stricter prudential standards and to supervision by the FRB (a “Designated Financial Company”) if the Council determines that material financial distress at the company or the scope of the
company’s activities could pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. On September 19, 2013, the Council made a final determination that Prudential Financial is a Designated Financial Company. As a Designated Financial Company,
Prudential Financial is now subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and to stricter prudential standards, which include or will include requirements and limitations (some of which are the subject of ongoing
rule-making) relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, resolution plans, early remediation, management interlocks and credit concentration; and may also include additional standards regarding
capital, public disclosure, short-term debt limits, and other related subjects at the discretion of the FRB and the Council.



Under Dodd-Frank, key aspects of regulation as a Designated Financial Company include:





•





The proposed rules implement, as required by Dodd-Frank, the establishment of an “early remediation” regime, whereby failure to meet defined measures of financial condition (including exceeding
certain capital and leverage ratios or market indicator thresholds, the occurrence of adverse stress test results or other financial triggers) would result in remedial action by the FRB. Depending on the degree of financial







distress, such remedial action could result in: heightened FRB supervisory review; limitations or prohibitions on capital distributions, acquisitions and/or asset growth; requirements to raise
additional capital or take other actions to improve capital adequacy; limitations on transactions with affiliates; restrictions on product offerings and/or requirements to sell assets; or recommendation for resolution under the special orderly
liquidation process discussed further below. The proposed rules would require that a Designated Financial Company determined by the Council to pose a grave threat to financial stability of the U.S., maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than
15-to-1 until the limitation is no longer necessary.



We cannot predict the form in which these proposed regulations ultimately will be adopted. Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to tailor its application of enhanced prudential standards to different companies
on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration financial activities involved and other factors. The FRB has stated that it expects to take into account the differences among bank holding companies and Designated Financial
Companies, including insurance companies, when applying these enhanced prudential standards. Nevertheless, we cannot predict how the FRB will apply these prudential standards to us as a Designated Financial Company.





•







•









•Under final rules published by the FRB and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) in November 2011, we are required as a
Designated Financial Company to submit to the FRB and FDIC, and periodically update in the event of material events, an annual plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress.



•As a Designated Financial Company, Prudential Financial must seek pre-approval from the FRB for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial
activities.



•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in. We cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



•As a Designated Financial Company, we could be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and
sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds.



Other Regulation under Dodd-Frank



Other key aspects of Dodd-Frank’s impact on us include:





•





•Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director appointed by the
Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the FIO director performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Council
and coordinating with the FRB in the application of any stress tests required to be conducted with respect to an insurer. On December 12, 2013, FIO issued its report, as required under Dodd-Frank, on how to modernize and improve the system of
insurance regulation in the United States. In its report, FIO advocates closer







coordination between state insurance regulators and a harmonization of state insurance laws across a number of insurance regulatory issues and responsibilities and also makes recommendations for
direct federal involvement in certain areas of insurance regulation.



•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code,
administered by the FDIC as receiver, upon a determination (with the approval of the FIO director if—as is true with respect to Prudential Financial—the largest United States subsidiary is an insurer) that the company is in default or in
danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. Were Prudential Financial subject to such a proceeding, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries would remain subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state law,
although the FDIC has discretion and authority to initiate resolution of an insurer under state law if its state insurance regulator has not filed the appropriate judicial action within 60 days of a systemic risk determination. However, our
non-insurance U.S. subsidiaries engaged in financial activities would be subject to any special orderly liquidation process so commenced.



•Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith. In
January 2011, the SEC staff issued a study that recommends that the SEC adopt a uniform federal fiduciary standard of conduct for registered broker-dealers and investment advisers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about
securities.



International and Global
Regulatory Initiatives



In addition to the
adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the Financial
Stability Board (“FSB”), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20, the FSB and related governmental bodies have developed proposals to address such issues as financial group supervision,
capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis.



On July 18, 2013, the FSB identified Prudential Financial as a global systemically important insurer(“G-SII”).U.S. financial regulators are thereby expected to enhance their regulation of Prudential Financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives, including:



•Enhanced group-wide supervision,



•Enhanced capital standards, including basic capital requirements applicable to all group activities and, for business deemed to be
non-traditional/non-insurance, higher loss absorption capacity requirements (expected to begin to be implemented in 2019),



•Enhanced liquidity planning and management, and



•Development of a risk reduction plan (expected to be completed within 12 months of G-SII designation) and recovery and resolution plans (expected to be
developed and agreed by the end of 2014).



Policy measures applicable to G-SIIs would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. We cannot predict the outcome of our identification as a G-SII on the
regulation of our businesses.



At the direction of
the FSB, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the “IAIS”) is developing a model framework (“ComFrame”) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (“IAIGs”) that contemplates
“group wide supervision” across national boundaries. Prudential Financial qualifies as an IAIG. In October 2013, the IAIS announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard by 2016 applicable to IAIGs, with
full implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. In addition, the IAIS seeks to promote the financial stability of IAIGs by endorsing: uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management; group-wide supervision of IAIGs;
a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks; additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance groups; and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. ComFrame also requires each IAIG to







conduct a group-wide risk and solvency assessment to monitor and manage its overall solvency. At this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other
burdens these requirements would impose on us, if adopted.



The lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with G20 and FSB recommendations,
including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies by the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”) in Japan. In addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the European
Economic Area (“EEA”) is due for significant change under the Solvency II Directive. This new regime will effect a full revision of the insurance industry’s solvency framework and prudential regime (in particular minimum capital and
solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards) and will impose, among other things, group level supervision mechanisms. The impact of the implementation of Solvency II on Prudential cannot be
determined at this time. There can be no assurance that Solvency II will not, at a minimum, result in increased supervisory, capital and disclosure burdens on Prudential’s EEA operations with potential broader collateral consequences to
Prudential Financial.



The foregoing requirements
and developments could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within and outside the U.S. The possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential
Financial “group” of companies also exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.



Other U.S. Federal Regulation



U.S. Tax Legislation



The American Taxpayer’s Relief Act (the “Act”) was signed into law on January 2, 2013. The Act permanently extended
the reduced Bush-era individual tax rates for certain taxpayers and permanently increased those rates for higher income taxpayers. Higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance. The
Act also made permanent the current $5 million (indexed for inflation) per person estate tax exemption and increased the top estate tax rate from 35% to 40%.



Notwithstanding the passage of the Act, there continues to be uncertainty regarding U.S. taxes, both for individuals and corporations.
There continues to be discussions in Washington concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. Reducing or eliminating certain expenditures
could make our products less attractive to customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the Company and its products. However, even in the absence of overall tax reform,
the large federal deficit increases the possibility that Congress will raise revenue by enacting legislation to increase the taxes paid by individuals and/or corporations. This can be accomplished by either raising rates or otherwise changing the
tax rules.



Current U.S. federal income tax laws
generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under
a life insurance contract. Congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance
products.



Additionally, legislative or regulatory
changes could also impact the amount of taxes that we pay, thereby affecting our consolidated net income. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through guidance the methodology to be followed in
determining the dividends received deduction, or DRD, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to U.S. tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax
expense and expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. For the last several years, the revenue proposals included in the Obama Administration’s budgets (“the Administration’s Revenue Proposals”)
included a proposal that would change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through guidance or legislation, could increase actual tax
expense and reduce the Company’s consolidated net income.







Furthermore, the Administration’s Revenue Proposals also included items that would
change the method by which U.S. multinationals claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign source income.



For additional discussion of possible tax legislative and
regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”



Proposed Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee



The Administration’s Revenue Proposal includes a proposal that would impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, or FCRF, on certain financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated
assets, including the Company. The amount of the FCRF that would be imposed upon the Company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into law, is unclear, but could be substantial.



ERISA



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions.
Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and
prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest. ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal
penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of
businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may
be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



USA Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001, enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti-money laundering and
financial transparency laws applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in
identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different, conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to
identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation
and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Holding Company Regulation



Prudential Financial is subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which
currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register
with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the
insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department.



Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance
companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control
of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more
of







the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10%
or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to
injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. In addition, many state
insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state.



Currently, there are several proposals to amend state
insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of regulation of insurance holding companies (such as Prudential Financial). The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, has promulgated model laws for adoption in the United
States that would provide for “group wide” supervision of Prudential Financial as an insurance holding company in addition to the current regulation of Prudential Financial’s insurance subsidiaries. While the timing of their adoption
and content will vary by jurisdiction, we have identified the following areas of focus in these model laws: (1) uniform standards for insurer corporate governance; (2) group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies;
(3) adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks; and (4) additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. At this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty
what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements would impose on Prudential Financial if adopted.



In October 2013 several of our domestic and foreign insurance regulators convened a supervisory college. The purpose of the supervisory
college is to promote ongoing supervisory coordination, facilitate the sharing of information among regulators and to enhance each regulator’s understanding of the Company’s risk profile.





Insurance Operations



State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the
District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance regulatory authority is the New Jersey Department of Banking and
Insurance. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they
are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws.



State Insurance Regulation



State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: licensing to transact business; licensing agents; admittance of assets to
statutory surplus; regulating premium rates for certain insurance products; approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and







claims practices; establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; regulating
the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted, regulating reinsurance transactions, including the role of captive reinsurers, and other matters.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments
everywhere they do business in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. The operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time.



State insurance departments conduct periodic
examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the
insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. During 2013, the New Jersey insurance regulator, along with the insurance regulators of Arizona, Connecticut, Indiana and Iowa, completed a coordinated risk focused
financial examination for the five year period ended December 31, 2011 for all of our U.S. domestic insurance companies as part of the normal five year examination and found no material deficiencies.



Financial Regulation



Dividend Payment
Limitations.The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other
U.S. insurance companies. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Risk-Based Capital.In order to enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model
law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. The risk-based capital, or RBC, calculation, which
regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to
various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital
than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy.



Insurance Reserves and Regulatory
Capital.State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when
considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our contractual obligations and related expenses.



Most of our U.S. operating insurance companies are licensed in New York, but none are domiciled in New York. The New York Department of
Financial Services (“NY DFS”) has notified us that it does not agree with our calculation of statutory reserves (including the applicable credit for reinsurance) for New York purposes in respect of certain variable annuity products. We are
currently in discussions with the NY DFS regarding the proper level of statutory reserves (including the applicable credit for reinsurance) for these products. If we are ultimately required to establish material additional reserves on a New York
statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to such variable annuity or other products, our ability to deploy capital held within our U.S. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be
affected.



The NAIC has developed a
principles-based reserving approach for life insurance products. The timing and the effect of these changes are still uncertain since the changes have to be adopted by each state and the approach can be further modified prior to adoption.



Captive Reinsurance
Companies.The NAIC, the NY DFS and other regulators have increased their focus on life insurers’ use of captive reinsurance companies. We cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from these reviews. If
applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of captive reinsurance







companies, our ability to write certain products and efficiently managetheir associated risks could be adversely affected and we may need to increase prices on certain products,
modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations.



Solvency Modernization Initiative.State insurance regulators have focused
attention on U.S. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the NAIC’s “Solvency Modernization Initiative.” The Solvency Modernization Initiative focuses on the entire U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial
regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group
supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. This initiative has resulted in the recent adoption of the NAIC Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”) model act which,
following enactment at the state level, will require larger insurers to, at least annually beginning in 2015, assess the adequacy of its and its group’s risk management and current and future solvency position. We cannot predict the additional
capital requirements or compliance costs these requirements may impose.



IRIS Tests.The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, to assist state regulators in
monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. Generally, regulators will begin to investigate or monitor an insurance company if
its ratios fall outside usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. Based on our most recent statutory filings (as of
December 31, 2012), none of our U.S. insurance companies are subject to regulatory scrutiny based on these ratios.



Market Conduct Regulation



State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions
governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.



Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments



Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under
which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer
in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we paid approximately $66.1 million, $2.4 million and $3.6
million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. Many states offer a reimbursement of such assessments in the form of credits against future years’ premium taxes. The increase in 2013 assessments
paid, relative to prior years, is primarily the result of the Executive Life of New York (“ELNY”) and the Executive Life Insurance Company insolvencies. In addition, in 2011, we agreed to make a voluntary contribution of $20 million to an
insurance industry solvency fund, related to ELNY, which was subsequently paid in 2013. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established estimated reserves for
future assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings.



Federal and State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations



Our variable life insurance products, as well as our variable annuity and mutual fund products, generally are “securities”
within the meaning of federal securities laws, that may be required to be registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Certain of our insurance
subsidiaries are subject to SEC public reporting and disclosure requirements based on offerings of these products. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under “—Investment Products and Asset
Management Operations” and “—Securities and Commodities Regulation” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products.







Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity
products, are “securities” within the meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these products generally are subject to
state securities regulation. Such regulation may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.



Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations



Our investment products and services are subject to federal
and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments and the United States Department of Labor are the principal U.S. regulators
that regulate our asset management operations. For a discussion of Dodd-Frank’s impact on our investment products and asset management operations, see “—Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” above. In some
cases our domestic U.S. investment operations are also subject to non-U.S. securities laws and regulations.



Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being registered
under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account
investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and are
subject to federal and state regulation. In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our Prudential Agents and other employees, insofar as they sell
products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities
that employ or control those individuals. The federal securities laws could also require re-approval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in
control.



Congress from time to time considers
pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn
revenues from these products and services. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or
other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with pension plans.



Securities and Commodities Regulation



We have subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, investment advisers, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisers. The SEC, the
CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the principal regulators of these subsidiaries.



Our broker-dealer and commodities affiliates are members of,
and are subject to regulation by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA and the NFA. Self-regulatory organizations conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their members. In addition, state securities and
certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our registered broker-dealers. Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the
securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping,
financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC, CFTC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory agencies, have the
power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer, an investment adviser or commodities firm or its
employees. Our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to federal net capital requirements that may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.







Privacy Regulation





Environmental
Considerations



Federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Under the laws of
certain states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending business. In several states, this lien has priority over
the lien of an existing mortgage against such property. In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, we may be liable, in certain circumstances, as an
“owner” or “operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us. We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us, although
Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met. However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could
still expose us to CERCLA liability. Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments prior to
taking title to real estate, whether through acquisition for investment, or through foreclosure on real estate collateralizing mortgages that we hold. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by
undertaking these environmental assessments and complying with our internal procedures, and as a result, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Unclaimed Property Laws



We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of
unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Regulation of our International Businesses



Our international businesses are subject to comprehensive
regulation and supervision. As in the U.S., the purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our
flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our







liquidity and profitability. Many of the laws and regulations to which our international businesses are subject are regularly re-examined, in some instances resulting in comprehensive
restatements of applicable laws, regulations and reorganization of supervising authorities. Existing or future laws or regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations as regulators seek to protect their financial
systems from perceived systemic risk. Solvency regulatory approaches developed in Europe are being considered or adopted in jurisdictions such as Japan and Mexico. It is likely that the recent financial market dislocations will lead to changes in
existing laws and regulations and regulatory frameworks, affecting our international business. In some instances, such jurisdictions may also impose different, conflicting or more rigorous laws and requirements, including regulations governing
privacy, consumer protection, employee protection, corporate governance and capital adequacy. Changes such as these can increase compliance costs and potential regulatory exposure.



In addition, our international operations face political,
legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, dividend
limitations, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that limit our ability to transfer funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or to convert local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to joint venture partner risks and limits our array of potential remedies.



Our international insurance operations are principally
supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and Financial Services Agency. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Italy and
Poland and have insurance operations in India, China and Malaysia through joint ventures. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance
product approvals, sales practices, claims payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among other items. In some jurisdictions, for certain products, regulators will also mandate premium rates
(or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used
by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses.



In order to monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for
insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency margins are used by regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the
impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The solvency margin ratios in certain jurisdictions are required to be disclosed to the public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate
capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy.



The Financial Services Agency (“FSA”), the insurance regulator in Japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin
requirements that revised risk charges for certain assets and changed the manner in which an insurance company’s core capital is calculated. These changes were effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012. We anticipate further
changes in solvency regulation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction based on regulatory developments in the U.S., the European Union, and recommendations by an international standard setting body for the insurance industry, as well as regulatory
requirements for those companies deemed to be systemically important financial institutions (similar to Designated Financial Companies under Dodd-Frank).



The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of
dividends that they can pay to shareholders. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the ability of our international subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Our non-insurance international operations are also
supervised primarily by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. We operate investment-related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Mexico, India, Germany and Singapore, and
participate in investment-related joint ventures in Brazil, Italy and China. These businesses may provide investment-related







products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds and separately managed accounts. The regulatory authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as
company licensing, the licensing of investment product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures, securities, commodities and related laws, among other items. In some cases,
our international investment operations are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations.



Our international businesses may also be subject to U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S. companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, various anti-money laundering laws and
regulations, and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances and we may
be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Furthermore, certain of our businesses, particularly those with operations in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), are also subject to the
U.K.’s Anti-Bribery Law, which governs interactions with both governmental and private commercial entities.



Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their
proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the
results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, substantially similar to such laws in the U.S., all licensed life insurers in Japan are required to
be members and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation, or PPC. These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we paid approximately $
29 million, $31 million and $29 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws.



In December 2013, the FSA announced amendments to its “Comprehensive Guidelines for Supervision of Insurance Business Operators”
and “Inspection Manual for Insurance Companies” addressing enterprise risk management readiness and own risk and solvency assessments. The purpose of these amendments is to bring the Japanese supervisory framework in line with the
international insurance supervisory framework, including the Insurance Core Principles (“ICP”) dealing with these subjects adopted by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) in October 2011.



In 2013, the FSA indicated its intention to develop a new
comprehensive regime for the resolution of financial institutions, including life insurance companies. The enabling legislation for the establishment of the regime was enacted in the fall of 2013. However, proposed regulations to effectuate these
changes have not yet been released.



Our
international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could impact the amount of taxes that we pay
or impact the sales of our products.



On
November 30, 2011, Japan enacted corporate tax reform that decreased the national corporate tax rate from 30% to 28.05% for tax years beginning on or after April, 1, 2012, and to 25.5% for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2015.
There is a proposal to accelerate the decrease in the rate for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2014.The carryforward period for net operating losses in Japan was increased from 7 to 9 years. Under the new legislation net
operating losses can only offset 80% of a company’s taxable income. On December 31, 2011 Korea rescinded the corporate tax decrease to 22% that was to be effective in 2012. Therefore, the Korean corporate tax rate remains at 24.2% for 2012
and thereafter.



Our international operations are
often subject to value added tax and similar taxes in the countries in which they operate. On August 10, 2012, Japan enacted legislation to increase the 5% consumption tax to 8% in April 2014, and 10% effective in October 2015. An increase to
such tax rates could reduce our consolidated net income.



On April 27, 2012, the Japan National Tax Authority (NTA) reduced the corporate tax deductibility of premiums paid for cancer products. Such a change has resulted in a decrease in the sale of such
products in Japan.







Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we had 47,355 employees and
sales associates, including 27,772 located outside of the U.S. We believe our relations with our employees and sales associates are satisfactory.



Available Information



Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy
statements and other information may be obtained through the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



You may also access our press releases, financial information
and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our
website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or
any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



