ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Prudential Financial, Inc., a financial services leader with approximately$1.264 trillionof assets under management as of December 31, 2016, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third-party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey.



Demutualization and Elimination of the Historic Separation of the Businesses



On December 18, 2001, Prudential Insurance converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under Prudential Insurance’s Plan of Reorganization, which required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the “Closed Block.” The Closed Block includes certain in force participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders’ dividends on these products, as well as certain related assets and liabilities. On the date of demutualization, eligible policyholders received shares of Prudential Financial’s Common Stock or the right to receive cash or policy credits, which are increases in policy values or increases in other policy benefits, upon the extinguishment of all membership interests in Prudential Insurance.



From demutualization through December 31, 2014, the businesses of Prudential Financial were separated into the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for financial statement purposes. Prior to December 31, 2014, the Financial Services Businesses were comprised of the U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division, the U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division and the International Insurance division, and the Closed Block formed the principal component of the Closed Block Business. From demutualization through December 31, 2014, Prudential Financial also had two classes of common stock outstanding: the Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU) and which reflected the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, and the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement, did not trade on any stock exchange, and which reflected the performance of the Closed Block Business.  In January 2015 we repurchased and canceled all of the outstanding shares of Class B Stock.



As a result of the repurchase of the Class B Stock, for reporting periods commencing after December 31, 2014, the Company’s earnings per share of Common Stock reflect the consolidated earnings of Prudential Financial, and the distinction between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business has been eliminated for financial statement purposes. The results of the Closed Block, along with certain related assets and liabilities, are reported as a separate segment, referred to as the “Closed Block division” and treated as a divested business under Prudential Financial’s definition of adjusted operating income. The results of divested businesses are included in “Net income” and “Income from continuing operations” determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) but are excluded from adjusted operating income. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s definition of a divested business and an explanation of adjusted operating income, and see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “—Closed Block Division” below for more information on the Closed Block.



We refer to the divisions and segments of the Company that formerly comprised the Financial Services Businesses as “PFI excluding the Closed Block division” and we refer to the operations that were formerly included in the Closed Block Business as the “Closed Block division,” except as otherwise noted.











Our Businesses



Our principal operations are comprised of four divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division consists of our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance division consists of our International Insurance segment. The Closed Block division consists of our Closed Block segment. Our Corporate and Other operations include businesses that have been or will be divested, corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments and businesses that are not sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure. These businesses are described below.



See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment.





U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division



The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division conducts its business through the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments.



Individual Annuities



Our Individual Annuities segment manufactures and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent market. We focus on innovative product design and risk management strategies.



Competition



We compete with other providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including large, well-established insurance and financial services companies, primarily based on our innovative product features and our risk management strategies. We also compete based on brand recognition, financial strength, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities.



In recent years, we have experienced a dynamic competitive landscape, prompted by challenging global financial markets. We proactively monitor changes in the annuity marketplace, and have taken actions to adapt our products to the current environment in order to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile. These actions have included variable annuity product modifications for new sales to adjust benefits pricing and commissions as well as closing of certain share classes. We also suspended or limited additional contractholder deposits for variable annuities with certain optional living benefit riders. Similarly, certain of our competitors have taken actions to modify benefits, to exit, or limit their presence in, the variable annuity marketplace. We believe our product offerings are competitive relative to other products currently available in the marketplace. In addition, we have introduced new products to broaden our offerings and diversify our risk profile and utilized external reinsurance as a form of risk mitigation, as discussed below, and have incorporated provisions in product design for certain products that allow frequent revisions of key pricing elements for new business. We continue to look for opportunities to further enhance and differentiate our current suite of products to attract new customers while responding to market conditions and managing risks.



Products



We offer certain variable annuities that provide our contractholders with tax-deferred asset accumulation together with a base death benefit and a suite of optional guaranteed living benefits (including versions with enhanced guaranteed minimum death benefits), and annuitization options. The majority of our currently sold contracts include an optional guaranteed living benefit which provides, among other features, the ability to make withdrawals based on the highest daily contract value plus a specified return, credited for a period of time. This contract value is a notional amount that forms the basis for determining periodic withdrawals for the life of the contractholder, and cannot be accessed as a lump sum surrender value. Certain optional living benefits can also be purchased with a companion optional death benefit, also based on a highest daily contract value. Our results are impacted by the fee rates we assess on our products. Some of our historical inforce products have fee tiers that decline throughout the life of the contract while our newer products generally have lower fee rates.











The Prudential Premier®Retirement Variable Annuity with Highest Daily Lifetime Income (“HDI”) offers lifetime income based on the highest daily account value plus a compounded deferral credit. HDI v.3.0 is the most current version of our “highest daily” guaranteed living benefits. Effective April 1, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd. (“Union Hamilton”), an external counterparty, to reinsure approximately 50% of the HDI v.3.0 business. This reinsurance agreement covered most new HDI v.3.0 variable annuity business issued between April 1, 2015 and December 31, 2016 on a quota share basis, with Union Hamilton’s cumulative quota share amounting to $2.9 billion of new rider premiums as of December 31, 2016. Reinsurance on business subject to this agreement remains in force for the duration of the underlying annuity contracts. New sales of HDI v.3.0 subsequent to December 31, 2016 are not covered by this external reinsurance agreement.



The Prudential Defined Income (“PDI”) Variable Annuity complements the variable annuity products we offer with the highest daily lifetime income benefit. PDI provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments, but restricts contractholder investment to a single bond sub-account within the separate accounts. PDI includes a living benefit rider which provides for a specified lifetime income withdrawal rate applied to the initial purchase payment paid, subject to annual roll-up increases until lifetime withdrawals commence, but does not have the highest daily feature.



We also offer variable annuities without guaranteed living benefits and immediate annuities. The Prudential Premier®Investment Variable Annuity (“PPI”) offers tax-deferred asset accumulation, annuitization options and an optional death benefit that guarantees the contractholder’s beneficiary a return of total purchase payments made to the contract, adjusted for any partial withdrawals, upon death.



Excluding our PDI product, the majority of our variable annuities generally provide our contractholders with the opportunity to allocate purchase payments to sub-accounts that invest in underlying proprietary and/or non-proprietary mutual funds, frequently under asset allocation programs. Certain products also allow or require allocation to fixed-rate accounts that are invested in the general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and interest credited at rates we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. For certain products, we have the ability to reset the crediting rates at our discretion subject to certain policy terms establishing guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates. Certain allocations made in the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities and certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity.



In addition, most contracts also guarantee the contractholder’s beneficiary a return of total purchase payments made to the contract, adjusted for any partial withdrawals, upon death. Certain inforce contracts include guaranteed benefits which are not currently offered, such as annuitization benefits based on a guaranteed notional amount and benefits payable at specified dates after the accumulation period.



For information regarding the risks inherent in our products and the mitigants we have in place to limit our exposure to these risks, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Individual Annuities—Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants.”



Marketing and Distribution



Our annuity products are distributed through a diverse group of third-party broker-dealers and their representatives, in banks and wirehouses, and through independent financial planners. Additionally, our variable annuity products are distributed through financial professionals, including those associated with Prudential Advisors, an affiliated broker-dealer, and the agency distribution force of The Allstate Corporation (“Allstate”). Our distribution efforts are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers.



For information regarding the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) fiduciary rule and its impact on our Individual Annuities segment, see “Regulation—Other U.S. Federal Regulation—DOL Fiduciary Rule” below.



Underwriting and Pricing



We earn asset management fees determined as a percentage of the average assets of our proprietary mutual funds in our variable annuity products, net of sub-advisory expenses related to non-proprietary sub-advisors. Additionally, we earn mortality and expense and other fees for various insurance-related options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts, account value, premium, or guaranteed value, as applicable. We also receive administrative service and distribution fees from many of the proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds.











We price our variable annuities based on an evaluation of the risks assumed and consideration of applicable risk management strategies, including hedging and reinsurance costs. Our pricing is also influenced by competition and assumptions regarding contractholder behavior, including persistency, benefit utilization and the timing and efficiency of withdrawals for contracts with living benefit features, as well as other assumptions. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse or positive effect on the profitability of our products. To encourage persistency, most of our variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, the living benefit features of our variable annuity products encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is fully realized only if the contract persists.



We price our fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities based on assumed investment returns, expenses, competition and persistency, as well as other assumptions. We seek to maintain a spread between the return on our general account invested assets and the interest we credit on our fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of our variable annuities.



Reserves



We establish reserves for our annuity products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use current best estimate assumptions when establishing reserves for our guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, including assumptions such as interest rates, equity returns, persistency, withdrawal, mortality and annuitization rates. Certain of the guaranteed living benefit features on variable annuity contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value. The fair values of these benefit features are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to contractholders less the present value of future expected rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature and are based on assumptions a market participant would use in valuing these embedded derivatives.For life contingent payout annuity contracts, we establish reserves using best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviations as of inception or best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition event. For variable and fixed annuity contracts, we establish liabilities for contractholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals, mortality and expense charges. Policyholders’ account balances also include provisions for non-life contingent payout annuity benefits.





Retirement



Our Retirement segment, which we refer to in the marketplace as Prudential Retirement, provides retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private, and not-for-profit sectors. Our full service business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, tailored participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investments. We service defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified plans, and for clients with combinations of these plans, we offer integrated recordkeeping services. We also provide certain brokerage services through our broker-dealer, Prudential Investment Management Services LLC, and trust services through Prudential Bank & Trust, FSB (“PB&T”), a limited purpose trust-only institution. Our institutional investment products business offers investment-only stable value products, pension risk transfer solutions and other payout annuities, including guaranteed investment contracts (“GICs”), funding agreements, structured settlement annuities and other group annuities for defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, non-qualified plans, and individuals.



Competition



The Retirement segment competes with other large, well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. In our full service business, we compete primarily based on pricing, the breadth of our service and investment offerings, the expertise of our employees, investment performance, and our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients. We collect revenue based on assets or per participant charges for plan administration, recordkeeping and employee education services. While we continue to have heightened pricing pressures, driven by competition, contractual limits on fee income, the influence of intermediaries and regulations requiring more standard and consistent fee disclosures across industry providers, this business has experienced strong persistency in recent years.



In our institutional investment products business, we compete primarily based on our pricing and structuring capabilities, as well as our ability to offer innovative product solutions and successfully execute large-scale transactions. Sales of institutional investment products are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance, company credit and financial strength ratings, product design, marketplace visibility, distribution capabilities, fees, crediting rates, and customer service. We are a leader in providing innovative pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors and in the stable value wrap market. We believe the pension risk transfer market continues to offer attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. We continue to be a market leader in the stable value wrap market despite increased competition.











Products and Services



Full Service



Our full service business offers plan sponsors and their participants a broad range of products and services to assist in the design, delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit, and non-qualified plans, including recordkeeping and administrative services, comprehensive investment offerings and consulting services to assist plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. As part of our investment products, we offer a variety of general and separate account stable value products and other fee-based separate accounts, as well as retail mutual funds and institutional funds advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers. In addition, certain products are marketed and sold on an investment-only basis through our full service distribution channels.



Our full service general account and separate account stable value products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time and to repay account balances or market value upon contract termination. These stable value products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual rate resets subject to certain contractual minimums, giving effect to previous investment experience. We earn profits from partially participating products from the spread between the rate of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, net of expenses. In addition, we may earn administrative fees for providing recordkeeping and other administrative services for both fully and partially participating products.



We also offer fee-based products, through which customer funds are held in separate accounts, retail mutual funds, institutional funds, or a client-owned trust. These products generally pass all of the investment results to the customer. In certain cases, these contracts are subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account. Additionally, we offer guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits associated with certain defined contribution accounts and manage certain of the related risks with derivatives and other hedging instruments.



Our full service fee-based advisory offerings are supported by participant communications and education programs, and a broad range of plan consulting services, including non-discrimination testing, plan document services, signature-ready documents for required filings, and full actuarial support for defined benefit plans. Additional services include non-qualified deferred compensation plan administration, including executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, investment advisory services, and merger and acquisition support.



Institutional Investment Products



Our institutional investment products business primarily offers products to the payout annuity and stable value markets.



Payout Annuity Markets.We offer products designed to provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the participant. Our newer pension risk transfer products include portfolio-protected products and a longevity reinsurance product. Our portfolio-protected products are non-participating group annuity contracts which we issue to pension plan sponsors and assume all of the investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan in return for a premium typically paid as a lump sum at inception. These products have economic features similar to our other general account annuity contracts, discussed below, but may also offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Our longevity reinsurance product is a reinsurance contract from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties, typically with monthly net settlements of premiums and benefits. As of December 31, 2016, our pension risk transfer business in force had an approximate average age of 74.



Other products include structured settlements, voluntary income products and other group annuities, which fulfill the payment guarantee needs of the personal injury lawsuit settlement market, the distribution needs of defined contribution participants and the payment obligations of defined benefit plans, respectively. For our general account products, we bear all of the investment, mortality, retirement, asset/liability management, and expense risk associated with these contracts. Our profits reflect the emerging experience related to investment returns, timing of mortality, timing of retirement, and the level of expenses being more or less favorable than assumed in the original pricing. Our separate account products are primarily fee-based products that cover payments to be made to defined benefit plan retirees. These contracts permit a plan sponsor to retain the risks and rewards of investment and actuarial results while receiving a general account guarantee for all annuity payments covered by the contract.



Stable Value Markets.We manufacture investment-only products for use in retail and institutional capital markets and qualified plan markets. Our primary stable value product offerings are investment-only wraps through which customers’ funds are held in a client-owned trust. These are participating contracts for which investment results pass through to the customer, subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee backed by the general account, and we earn fees for providing this guarantee. For contracts currently in force, the minimum interest rate has a floor of zero percent. The fees we earn for providing this guarantee may be reset as defined by the underlying contracts. Contractholders are provided with proprietary and non-proprietary flexible fund investment alternatives.











We also offer investment-only general account products in the form of GICs and funding agreements. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. Because these obligations are backed by our general account, we bear the investment and asset/liability management risk associated with these contracts. Generally, profits from these products result from the spread between the rates of return we earn on the investments and the interest rates we credit, net of expenses.



Marketing and Distribution



We distribute our products through a variety of channels. In our full service business, our dedicated sales and support teams manage our distribution efforts in offices across the country. We sell our products and services through third-party financial advisors, brokers, and benefits consultants and, to a lesser extent, directly to plan sponsors. Our clients typically prefer to transition plans either at the beginning or end of their fiscal year, which are generally during our fourth quarter.



In our payout annuity area within our institutional investment products business, our pension risk transfer products, traditional group annuities and participating separate account annuities are typically distributed through actuarial consultants and third-party brokers. Structured settlements are distributed through unaffiliated specialized brokers. Voluntary income products are distributed through the defined contribution portion of our full service business, directly to plan sponsors, or as part of annuity price quoting services.



In our stable value area within our institutional investment products business, we utilize our direct sales force and intermediaries to distribute investment-only stable value wraps and traditional GICs to plan sponsors and stable value fund managers, and to distribute funding agreements to investors. We also manage a global Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program (“FANIP”) pursuant to which statutory trusts issue short-term commercial paper and/or medium-term notes secured by funding agreements issued to the trusts by Prudential Insurance. Prudential Insurance may also issue funding agreements directly to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.



For information regarding the DOL fiduciary rule and its impact on our Retirement segment, see “Regulation—Other U.S. Federal Regulation—DOL Fiduciary Rule” below.



Underwriting and Pricing



We set our rates for our full service and institutional investment products using pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, expense and profitability targets. In addition, for products within our payout annuity area, our models also use assumptions for mortality and, if pertinent, early retirement risks. These assumptions may be less predictable in certain markets, and deviations in actual experience from pricing assumptions could affect the profitability of these products. For our investment-only stable value wrap product, our pricing risk is mitigated by several features, including: the fees we earn for providing a guaranteed rate of return may be reset, as defined by the underlying contracts; the contracts allow participants to withdraw funds at book value, while contractholder withdrawals occur at market value immediately or at book value over time; and our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the fund value.



Reserves



We establish reserves for our retirement products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviation as of inception or best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition event when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses, including assumptions for investment yield, expenses, mortality rates, persistency, retirement date and annuity form. Future policyholder benefit reserves also include amounts related to deferred profit liabilities, where applicable. We also establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances and additional reserves for investment experience that will accrue to the customer but have not yet been reflected in credited rates. Policyholders’ account balances also include provisions for non-life contingent payout annuity benefits.





Asset Management



Effective January 1, 2016, the Asset Management segment, formerly known in the marketplace as Prudential Investment Management, was rebranded as PGIM, The Global Investment Management Businesses of Prudential Financial, Inc (“PGIM”).



The Asset Management segment provides a broad array of investment management and advisory services by means of institutional portfolio management, retail funds management, private lending and asset securitization activity and other structured products. These products and services are provided to third-party clients as well as other Prudential businesses. We also invest in asset management and investment distribution businesses in targeted countries, including through investments in operating joint ventures, to expand our mass affluent customer base outside the U.S. and to increase our global assets under management.











We earn asset management fees which are typically based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees are earned as a percentage of the transaction price associated with the sale or purchase of assets in certain funds, primarily related to real estate. In addition, we earn investment returns from strategic investing and revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing.



Competition



The Asset Management segment competes with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. For our asset management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses have helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private placement and commercial mortgage businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. Competition will vary depending on the product or service being offered.



Products and Services



We offer asset management services for public and private fixed income, public equity and real estate, as well as commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and mutual funds and other retail services through the following eight businesses:



PGIM Fixed Income.PGIM Fixed Income manages assets for a wide range of clients worldwide through our operations in Newark, London, Singapore and Tokyo. Our products include traditional broad market fixed income and single-sector strategies, traditional and customized asset/liability strategies, hedge strategies and collateralized loan obligations. PGIM Fixed Income also serves as a non-custodial securities lending agent. Portfolios are managed by seasoned portfolio managers across sector specialist teams supported by significant credit research, quantitative research and risk management organizations.



Jennison Associates.Jennison Associates LLC, a wholly-owned registered investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services by managing a range of publicly-traded equity, balanced and fixed income portfolios that span market capitalizations, investment styles and geographies. Jennison Associates uses fundamental, team-based research to manage portfolios for institutional, private and sub-advisory clients, including mutual funds.



Quantitative Management Associates.Quantitative Management Associates LLC, a wholly-owned registered investment adviser, provides discretionary and non-discretionary asset management services to a wide range of clients by managing a broad array of publicly-traded equity asset classes using various investment styles. Quantitative Management Associates manages equity and asset allocation portfolios for institutional and sub-advisory clients, including mutual funds, using proprietary quantitative processes tailored to meet client objectives.



Prudential Capital Group.Prudential Capital Group provides asset management services by investing in private placement investment grade and below investment grade debt and mezzanine debt and equity securities, with a majority of the private placement investments being originated by our staff. These investment capabilities are utilized by our general account and institutional clients through direct advisory accounts, insurance company separate accounts, and private fund structures.



PGIM Real Estate Finance. PGIM Real Estate Finance provides commercial mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration and Freddie Mac.



PGIM Real Estate. PGIM Real Estate provides asset management services for single-client and commingled private and public real estate portfolios, and manufactures and manages a variety of real estate investment vehicles investing in private and public real estate, primarily for institutional clients through offices worldwide. Our domestic and international real estate investment vehicles range from fully diversified open-end funds to specialized closed-end funds that invest in specific types of properties or designated geographic regions or follow other specific investment strategies. Our global real estate organization has an established presence in the U.S., Europe, Asia and Latin America.



PGIM Investments. PGIM Investments manufactures, distributes and services investment management products primarily utilizing proprietary asset management expertise in the U.S. retail market. These products are designed to be sold primarily by financial professionals including third-party advisors and licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors. We offer a family of retail investment products consisting of over 70 mutual funds as of December 31, 2016. These products cover a wide array of investment styles and objectives designed to attract and retain assets of individuals with varying objectives and to accommodate investors’ changing financial needs.











Prudential International Investments, a PGIM Business. Prudential International Investments manufactures proprietary products and distributes both proprietary and non-proprietary products tailored to meet client needs. Our international investment operations primarily consist of our asset management operations in Taiwan, and our operating joint ventures in Brazil, India and Italy that are accounted for under the equity method.



In addition, we make strategic investments to support the creation and management of funds offered to third-party investors in private and public real estate, fixed income and publicly traded equity asset classes. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). We also make loans to, and guarantee obligations of, our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds.



Marketing and Distribution



We provide investment management services for our institutional customers through a proprietary sales force organized by each asset management business. Each business has an independent marketing and service team working with clients. Institutional asset management services are also offered through the Retirement segment.



Most of the retail customer assets under management are invested in our mutual funds and our variable annuities and variable life insurance products. These assets are gathered by distribution forces associated with other Prudential businesses and by third-party networks. Additionally, we work with third-party product manufacturers and distributors to include our investment options in their products and platforms.



We also provide investment management services across a broad array of asset classes for our general account, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General Account Investments.”



For information regarding the DOL fiduciary rule and its impact on our Asset Management segment, see “Regulation—Other U.S. Federal Regulation—DOL Fiduciary Rule” below.





U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division



The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division conducts its business through the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments.



Individual Life



Our Individual Life segment manufactures and distributes universal life, term life and variable life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. In general, we consider: households with investable assets in excess of $25,000 or annual income in excess of $50,000 to be mass middle; households with investable assets or annual income in excess of $100,000 to be mass affluent; and households with investable assets in excess of $250,000 to be affluent in the U.S. market. Our life products are distributed through independent third-party distributors and licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors. We generally experience higher sales during the fourth quarter as some of our clients use life insurance for estate and tax planning purposes.



Competition



The Individual Life segment competes with other large, well-established life insurance companies in a mature market. We compete primarily based on price, service, distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial strength. Due to the large number of competitors, pricing is competitive. Factors that could influence our ability to competitively price products while achieving targeted returns include the level, cost and availability of financing for statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies, the availability, utilization and timing of tax deductions associated with statutory reserves, product designs that impact the amount of statutory reserves and the associated tax deductions, the level and volatility of interest rates, and our expense structure.



We periodically adjust product prices and features based on the market and our strategy, with a goal of managing the Individual Life business for steady, consistent sales growth across a balanced product portfolio and to avoid over-concentration in any one product type. These actions, and the actions of competitors, can impact our sales levels from period to period.











Products



Our primary insurance products are term life, variable life, guaranteed universal life and all other universal life, which represent 45%, 32%, 15% and 8%, respectively, of our face amount of individual life insurance in force, net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2016. We continue to maintain focus on our product diversification strategy which has positioned us to better balance portfolio risk and enhance our value proposition to our distribution partners and their clients. Additionally, most of our variable and universal life products now offer a policy rider that allows death benefits to be accelerated to the policyholder during a chronic or terminal illness, under certain contractual requirements.



Term Life Insurance.We offer a variety of term life insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period. Most term products include a feature that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into permanent life insurance coverage. We also offer term life insurance that provides for a return of premium if the insured is alive at the end of the level premium period. There continues to be significant demand for term life insurance protection.



Variable Life Insurance.We offer several variable life insurance products that give the policyholder the flexibility to change both the death benefit and premium payments, and provide the potential to earn returns linked to an underlying investment portfolio that the policyholder selects. The policyholder generally can make deposits for investments in a fixed-rate option which is part of our general account or in separate account investment options consisting of equity and fixed income funds. Funds invested in the fixed-rate option provide a guarantee of principal and are credited with interest at rates that we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the fund performance risk. We also offer a variable life product that has an optional flexible guarantee against lapse where policyholders can select the guarantee period. While variable life insurance continues to be an important product, marketplace demand continues to favor term and universal life insurance. A meaningful portion of Individual Life’s profits, however, is associated with our large in force block of variable policies which are expected to run off over time as policies age.



Universal Life Insurance.We offer universal life insurance products that feature flexible premiums and a crediting rate that we determine, subject to certain contractual minimums. Guaranteed universal life products provide a guarantee of death benefits to remain in force when a policy would otherwise lapse due to insufficient cash value. We also offer universal life insurance products that allow the policyholder to allocate all or a portion of their account balance into an index account. The index account provides interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, S&P 500 index performance over the following year, subject to certain participation rates and contractual minimums and maximums. Mortality and expense margins and net interest spread impact Individual Life’s profits from universal life insurance.



Marketing and Distribution



Individual Life provides products to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets through the following two channels:



Third-Party Distribution.Our individual life products are offered through a variety of third-party channels, including independent brokers, wirehouses, banks, general agencies and producer groups. We focus on sales through independent intermediaries who provide life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and support estate and wealth transfer planning.



Prudential Advisors.Prudential Advisors distributes Prudential universal, term and variable life insurance, variable and fixed annuities and investment products with proprietary and non-proprietary investment options. It also distributes selected insurance and investment products from other carriers and has access to non-proprietary property and casualty products. In addition, Prudential Advisors offers certain retail brokerage and retail investment advisory services through our dually registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, Pruco Securities, LLC. These services include brokerage accounts, discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory programs and financial planning services. Although Prudential Advisors generates an operating loss within our Individual Life segment, it generates positive overall value when we consider the aggregate value of the business that is acquired through this channel. Individual Life is paid a market rate by the Annuities and Asset Management segments to distribute their products. Any profit or loss is included in the results of the Individual Life segment and eliminated in consolidation.



For information regarding the DOL fiduciary rule and its impact on our Individual Life segment, see “Regulation—Other U.S. Federal Regulation—DOL Fiduciary Rule” below.











Underwriting and Pricing



Underwriters assess and quantify the risk of our individual life insurance products based on the age, gender, health and occupation of the applicant and amount of insurance requested. We continually update our guidelines to keep pace with changes in healthcare, research, and experience. We base premiums and policy charges for individual life insurance on expected death benefits, surrender benefits, expenses and required reserves. We price policies using assumptions for mortality and morbidity, interest rates, expenses, policy persistency, premium payment patterns, separate account fund performance and product-generated tax deductions, as well as the level, cost and availability of financing certain statutory reserves. Deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions may adversely or positively impact the profitability of our products.



Reserves



We establish reserves for individual life products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For term life insurance contracts and other benefits with fixed and guaranteed terms, we use best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviation as of inception when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses including assumptions for mortality and morbidity, investment yield, expenses, and policy persistency. We use current best estimate assumptions when establishing reserves for no lapse guarantees. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. For variable and universal life insurance contracts, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances. These liabilities represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals, and expense and cost of insurance charges, as applicable. Policyholders’ account balances also include unearned revenue reserves calculated based on current best estimate assumptions.



Reinsurance



The Individual Life segment uses reinsurance as a means of managing mortality volatility and risk capacity, which can impact product profitability. On policies sold since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of the mortality risk assumed, with that portion varying over time depending on market factors and strategic objectives. Commencing in 2013, the maximum exposure we retain for new business is $20 million on both single life policies and second-to-die policies. Over time we have accumulated policies with higher retained exposure which may result in earnings volatility. In addition, certain transactions, such as assumed reinsurance or acquisitions of in force contracts, may cause us to temporarily or permanently exceed this limit on an aggregate basis. We remain liable if a third-party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure.





Group Insurance



Our Group Insurance segment offers a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee plans and affinity groups. We also sell accidental death and dismemberment and other ancillary coverages, and provide plan administrative services in connection with our insurance coverages.



Competition



We are a provider of both group life and disability insurance, and compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in mature U.S. markets. We compete primarily based on brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial strength, range of product offerings and price. Pricing of group insurance products is reflective of the large number of competitors in the marketplace. The majority of our premiums are derived from large corporations, affinity groups or other organizations having over 10,000 insured individuals. Employee-paid (voluntary) coverage is important as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees who continue to value benefits offered at the workplace. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation rates.



Products



Group Life Insurance.Our portfolio of group life insurance products consists of employer-paid (basic) and employee-paid coverages, including term life insurance for employees and employees’ dependents as well as group universal life insurance. We offer group variable universal life insurance, basic and voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance, business travel accident insurance, a critical illness product and an accident insurance product. Many of our employee-paid coverages allow employees to retain their coverage when they change employers or retire. We also offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the insured suffers a qualifying disability.











Our group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance products are group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts, and are typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees.



Group Disability Insurance.We offer short- and long-term group disability insurance, which protects against loss of wages due to illness or injury, as well as plan administrative services and absence management services. Disability benefits are limited to a portion, generally 50% to 70%, of the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit. Short-term disability generally provides a weekly benefit for three to six months, while long-term disability benefits are paid monthly, following a waiting period (usually 90 or 180 days, during which short-term disability may be provided) and generally continue until the insured returns to work or reaches normal retirement age.



Marketing and Distribution



Group Insurance offers its portfolio of products and customized benefit solutions through its own dedicated sales force that is organized around market segments and distributes primarily through employee benefit brokers and consultants.



Underwriting and Pricing



We price each product line using underwriting practices and rating systems that consider Company, industry and/or other experience. We assess the risk profile of prospective insured groups; however, certain voluntary products or coverages may require underwriting on an individual basis. We are not obligated to accept any individual certificate application, and may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.



We maintain a disciplined approach to pricing our group life and disability insurance products. We base pricing of group insurance products on the expected pay-out of benefits and other costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality and morbidity rates, interest rates and expenses, depending upon the specific product features. On many of our group policies, we provide multiple year rate guarantees, which can contribute to fluctuations in profitability. For certain policies with experience-rated return provisions, the final premium is adjusted to reflect the client’s actual experience during the past year. For these policies, the group contractholder bears some of the risk, or receives some of the benefit, associated with claim experience fluctuations, thus lessening the fluctuations in profitability.



Reserves



We establish reserves for group insurance products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We primarily use current best estimate assumptions when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses including assumptions for mortality, morbidity and claim termination rates, interest rates and Social Security offsets. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. We also establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals, and expense and cost of insurance charges, as applicable.



Reinsurance



We use reinsurance primarily to limit losses from large claims, and in response to client requests. We remain liable if a third-party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor concentration of counterparty risk to mitigate this exposure.





International Insurance Division



The International Insurance division conducts its business through the International Insurance segment.



International Insurance



Our International Insurance segment manufactures and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products, including certain health products with fixed benefits. We provide these products to the broad middle income and mass affluent markets across Japan through multiple distribution channels including banks, independent agencies and Life Consultants associated with our Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Gibraltar Life”) operations. We also provide similar products to the mass affluent and affluent markets through our Life Planner operations in Japan, Korea and other countries outside the U.S., including Taiwan, Italy, Brazil, Argentina, Poland and Mexico. We continue to seek opportunities for expansion into high-growth markets in targeted countries.











For the year ended December 31, 2016, our Life Planner and Gibraltar Life operations in Japan represented 37% and 51%, respectively, of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of the International Insurance segment and, in aggregate, represented 38% of the net premiums, policy charges and fee income of Prudential Financial, translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates.



In addition to the operations discussed above, as of December 31, 2016, we have a 40% interest in a retirement services business in Chile, a 70% interest in a life insurance business in Malaysia, and a 49% interest in a life insurance joint venture in India, which increased from 26% as of December 31, 2015.



We manage each operation on a stand-alone basis through local management and sales teams, with oversight by senior executives based in Newark, New Jersey and outside the United States. Each operation has its own marketing, underwriting, claims, investment management and actuarial functions. In addition, significant portions of the general account investment portfolios are managed by our Asset Management segment, primarily through international subsidiaries. Operations generally invest in local currency denominated securities, primarily bonds issued by the local government or its agencies. In our larger operations, we have more diversified portfolios that also include U.S. dollar-denominated investments, in large part to support products issued in U.S. dollars and as part of our foreign exchange hedging strategy. Our Gibraltar Life operations also have Australian dollar-denominated investments that support products issued in that currency.



Competition



The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are mature and pricing is competitive. Rather than competing primarily based on price, we generally compete on the basis of customer service, including our needs-based approach to selling, the quality and diversity of our distribution capabilities, and our financial strength. Demographic trends in Asia suggest an increasing opportunity for product innovation, introducing insurance products that allow for savings and income as a growing portion of the population prepares for retirement. Further, as many Asian insurers focus on entering other markets, we have the opportunity to continue to build our presence in the Asian markets we currently serve. The ability to sell through multiple and complementary distribution channels is also a competitive advantage; however, competition for sales personnel, as well as access to third-party distribution channels, is intense.



Products



Our international insurance operations have a diversified product mix, primarily denominated in local currencies and emphasizing death protection while supporting the growing demand for retirement and savings products. As a result of both the continued low interest rate environment in Japan and fluctuating currency markets, there has been a shift in demand for certain products, particularly for those denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we regularly examine our yen-based product offerings and have taken specific actions to reprice or, in some cases, suspend sales of products that are most affected by these factors.



We classify our products into four general categories: life insurance protection, retirement, annuity and accident & health, which represented 59%, 20%, 15% and 6%, respectively, of full year 2016 annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate basis. Each product category is described below:



Life Insurance Protection Products. We offer various traditional whole life products that provide either level or increasing coverage, and offer limited or lifetime premium payment options. We also offer increasing, decreasing and level benefit term insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period, as well as protection-oriented variable universal life products. Some of these protection products are denominated in U.S. dollars and some are sold as bundled products which, in addition to death protection, include health benefits or savings elements.



Retirement Products.We offer a variety of retirement products, including endowments, savings-oriented variable universal life and retirement income. Endowments provide payment of the face amount on the earlier of death or policy maturity. Variable universal life products provide a non-guaranteed return linked to an underlying investment portfolio of equity and fixed income funds selected by the customer. Retirement income products combine insurance protection similar to term life with a lifetime income stream which commences at a predefined age.



Annuity Products.Annuity products are primarily represented by U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated fixed annuities sold by our Gibraltar Life operations. Sales and surrenders of non-yen products are sensitive to foreign currency relationships which are impacted by, among other things, the comparative interest rates in the respective countries. Most of our annuity products impose a market value adjustment if the contract is not held to maturity.











Accident and Health Products.In most of our operations, we offer accident and health products with fixed benefits. These products provide benefits to cover accidental death and dismemberment, hospitalization, surgeries, and cancer and other dread diseases, most of which are sold as supplementary riders and not as stand-alone products. We also offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the customer suffers a qualifying disability.



Marketing and Distribution



Our International Insurance segment distributes its products through multiple distribution channels, including two captive agent models, Life Planners and Life Consultants, as well as bank and independent agency third-party distribution channels. For additional information on headcount for our captive agents, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations by Segment—International Insurance Division.”



Life Planners.Our Life Planner model differentiates us from competitors in the countries where we do business by focusing on selling protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and affluent customers, as well as retirement-oriented products to small businesses. We believe that our recruiting and selection process, training programs and compensation packages are key to the Life Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher rates of agent retention, agent productivity and policy persistency than our local competitors. The attributes considered when recruiting new Life Planners generally include but are not limited to: university or college degree, no prior life insurance sales experience, a minimum of two years of sales or sales management experience, and a pattern of job stability and success. The number of Life Planners as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, was 7,680 and 7,592, respectively.



Life Consultants.Our Life Consultants are the proprietary distribution force for products offered by our Gibraltar Life operations. Their focus is to provide individual protection products to the broad middle income market, primarily in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Consultant operation is based on a variable compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. The number of Life Consultants in Japan as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, was 8,884 and 8,805, respectively.



Bank Distribution Channel.Bank distribution channel sales primarily consist of life insurance products intended to provide savings features, premature death protection and estate planning benefits as well as fixed annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars. We view the bank distribution channel as an adjunct to our core Life Planner and Life Consultant distribution channels and will continue to pursue this channel with a focus on profitable growth.



A significant portion of our sales in Japan through our bank channel distribution are derived through a single Japanese mega-bank; however, we have relationships with each of Japan’s four largest banks as well as many regional banks, and we continue to explore opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through this channel, as appropriate.



Independent Agency Distribution Channel.Our independent agency channel sells protection products and high cash value products for retirement benefits through the business market and sells a variety of other products including protection, medical and fixed annuity products through the individual market. Our focus is to maintain a diverse mix of independent agency relationships including accounting firms, corporate agencies and other independent agencies with a balanced focus on individual and business markets. We differentiate ourselves by providing quality service to producers in this distribution channel.



Underwriting and Pricing



Our International Insurance segment is subject to substantial local regulation that is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each International Insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. To the extent permitted by local regulation, we base premiums and policy charges for our products on expected death and morbidity benefits, surrender benefits, expenses, required reserves, interest rates, policy persistency and premium payment patterns. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with each operation’s reinsurers.



Pricing of similar products among our various countries is designed to achieve a generally consistent targeted rate of return by product, with the competitive environment also being a contributing factor. The profitability of our products is impacted both positively and negatively by differences between actual mortality, morbidity, expense, and investment experience and the related assumptions used in pricing these policies. As a result, the profitability of our products can fluctuate from period to period. Interest rates guaranteed at issue under our insurance contracts may exceed the rates of return we earn on our investments and, as a result, we may experience negative spreads between the rate we guarantee and the rate we currently earn on investments. Additionally, profitability within any reporting period may also be affected by seasonal factors, such as common retirement dates for members of specific customer groups in the second quarter of each year, or the timing of new product introductions, sales campaigns and premium rate changes. Changes in tax laws may also affect profitability.











Reserves



We establish reserves for our international insurance products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We primarily use best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviation as of inception when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses including assumptions for investment yield, persistency, expenses, mortality and morbidity rates. Future policy benefit reserves also include amounts related to our deferred profit liability, claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. For variable and interest-sensitive life products, as well as most annuity products, we establish liabilities for policyholders’ account balances that represent cumulative deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals, and expense and cost of insurance charges, as applicable. Policyholders’ account balances also include unearned revenue reserves calculated based on current best estimate assumptions and provisions for non-life contingent payout annuity benefits.



Reinsurance



International Insurance reinsures portions of its insurance risks, primarily mortality, with both selected third-party reinsurers and Prudential Insurance. We remain liable if a third-party reinsurer is for some reason unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and monitor the concentration of credit risk to mitigate this exposure.





Corporate and Other



Corporate and Other includes corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to our business segments, and divested businesses, other than those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. As described in “Demutualization and Elimination of the Historic Separation of the Businesses” above, effective January 2, 2015, results of the Closed Block, along with certain related assets and liabilities, are reported as the Closed Block division and are accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the divested businesses included in Corporate and Other.



Corporate Operations



Corporate Operations consist primarily of: (1) capital that is not deployed in any business segments; (2) investments not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, as well as tax credit investments and other tax-enhanced investments financed by business segments; (3) capital debt that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company and the related interest expense; (4) our qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments; (5) corporate-level activities, after allocations to business segments, including strategic expenditures, corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred compensation, and costs related to certain contingencies and enhanced regulatory supervision; (6) certain retained obligations relating to pre-demutualization policyholders; (7) a life insurance joint venture and an asset management joint venture in China; (8) our Capital Protection Framework, discussed below; (9) the foreign currency income hedging program used to hedge certain non-U.S. dollar denominated earnings in our International Insurance segment; (10) the impact of intercompany arrangements with our Retirement and Asset Management segments to translate certain non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates; and (11) transactions with and between other segments.



Corporate Operations include certain results related to our Capital Protection Framework (“the Framework”), which we employ as part of our capital management strategy. The Framework considers potential capital consequences under a range of market related stresses and the strategies we use to mitigate them. For additional information on our Capital Protection Framework, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital—Capital Protection Framework.”



Divested Businesses



Divested Businesses reflect the results of the following businesses that have been, or will be, sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down status that do not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We exclude these results from our adjusted operating income. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of adjusted operating income.



Long-Term Care.In 2012, we discontinued sales of our individual and group long-term care insurance products. We establish reserves for these products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviation as of inception or best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition event when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses, including assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, expenses and interest rates. Our assumptions have also factored in our estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated premium increases which will require state approval. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid and claims incurred but not yet reported.











Other.In addition to the business described above, the results of Divested Businesses also include the following:



•On July 1, 2013, we sold our wealth management solutions business to Envestnet, Inc. The contractual terms of the sale have been fulfilled.

•In 2008, we announced our intention to exit our financial advisory business, which consisted of our investment in a retail securities brokerage and clearing operations joint venture which was sold on December 31, 2009. Certain expenses relating to the businesses we originally contributed to the joint venture were retained, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters.

•In 2003, we sold our property and casualty insurance companies to Liberty Mutual Group (“Liberty Mutual”). We have reinsured Liberty Mutual for adverse loss development for specific property and casualty risks that they did not want to retain. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our remaining property and casualty obligations under these reinsurance contracts based on the current information available.

•We ceased writing individual disability income policies in 1992, and a year later ceased writing hospital expense and major medical policies. Most of our individual disability income policies are non-cancelable; however, we reinsured all of these policies as of July 1999. For our hospital expense and major medical policies, the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act guarantees renewal beyond age 65. Under certain circumstances, with appropriate approvals from state regulatory authorities, we are permitted to change the premiums charged for these policies if we can demonstrate the premiums have not been sufficient to pay claims. We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses.

•We have not actively engaged in the assumed life reinsurance market in the United States since the early 1990s; however, we remain subject to mortality risk for certain assumed individual life insurance policies under the terms of the reinsurance treaties. We establish reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP for future policyholder benefits and expenses.



Discontinued Operations



Discontinued Operations reflect the results of businesses and of any direct real estate investments that qualified for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.





Closed Block Division



In connection with the demutualization in 2001, we ceased offering domestic participating individual life insurance and annuity products, under which policyholders are eligible to receive policyholder dividends reflecting experience. The liabilities for our individual in force participating products were segregated, together with assets to be used exclusively for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products, in the Closed Block. We selected the amount of assets that were expected to generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000, assuming experience underlying such scales continued. No policies sold after demutualization have been added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full.



The results of the Closed Block, along with certain related assets and liabilities, comprise the Closed Block division, which is treated as a divested business under our definition of adjusted operating income and reported separately from the other divested businesses that are included in our Corporate and Other operations. Prior to the repurchase of the Class B Stock and the resulting elimination of the distinction between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, the Closed Block formed the principal component of the Closed Block Business.



As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the Closed Block is more or less favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any experience in excess of amounts assumed may be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder dividends unless offset by future Closed Block experience that is less favorable than expected. This excess experience will not be available to shareholders. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for any excess experience. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets of the Closed Block division.











Our strategy is to maintain the Closed Block as required by our Plan of Reorganization over the time period of its gradual diminishment as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance for the State of New Jersey, to enter into agreements to transfer all or any part of the risks under the Closed Block policies.



Effective January 1, 2015, we entered into a reinsurance agreement with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey (“PLIC”), pursuant to which Prudential Insurance reinsured substantially all of the outstanding liabilities of the Closed Block into a statutory guaranteed separate account of PLIC, primarily on a coinsurance basis. Under the reinsurance agreement, approximately $57 billion of Closed Block assets were transferred to PLIC. Consistent with the participating nature of the Closed Block policies and contracts, experience of the Closed Block continues to be passed along to policyholders over time through adjustments of the annual policyholder dividend scale. Prior to entering into the reinsurance agreement with PLIC, Prudential Insurance reinsured a substantial portion of the Closed Block liabilities to third-party and affiliated reinsurers. The results of these reinsurance arrangements were reported through December 31, 2014 within Corporate and Other operations. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on the accounting for these reinsurance arrangements.





Intangible and Intellectual Property



We capture and protect the innovation in our financial services products by applying for federal business method patents and implementing trade secret controls, as appropriate. We also use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign servicemarks, including in particular “Prudential”, “Prudential Financial”, the “Prudential logo” and our “Rock” symbol. We believe that the value associated with many of our patents and trade secrets, and the goodwill associated with many of our servicemarks are significant competitive assets.



On April 20, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Prudential plc of the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), with whom we have no affiliation, concerning the parties’ respective rights worldwide to use the names “Prudential” and “Pru.” The agreement restricts use of the “Prudential” and “Pru” name and mark in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our “Rock” symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally.





Regulation



Overview



Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and the overall financial system and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations or profitability. Financial market dislocations have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) discussed below. In addition, we cannot predict how the Trump Administration will impact these existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, including Dodd-Frank, U.S. tax laws, the U.S. Department of Labor’s new fiduciary rules and the U.S.’s participation in international supervisory initiatives.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



Dodd-Frank subjects us to substantial federal regulation, primarily as a non-bank financial company (a “Designated Financial Company”) designated for supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) as discussed below. We cannot predict the timing or requirements of the regulations not yet adopted under Dodd-Frank or how such regulations will impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or competitive position. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether such regulations will make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital or liquid assets, potentially affecting capital deployment activities, including buying back shares or paying dividends.











In February 2017 President Trump issued an executive order directing the Secretary of the Treasury to consult with the heads of the member agencies of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "Council") and report to the President on the extent to which existing laws and regulations promote certain core principles of regulation of the financial system that are outlined in the order. We cannot predict what impact the order will ultimately have on Dodd-Frank or the Company. In addition, during 2016 legislation was introduced to amend certain provisions of Dodd-Frank, including the authority of the Council to designate non-bank financial companies for FRB supervision, and it is expected that a revised version of the proposed legislation will be introduced again in 2017. We cannot predict whether this or other legislation impacting Dodd-Frank will ultimately be passed into law, or how such legislation will impact the Company.



Regulation as a Designated Financial Company



Dodd-Frank established the Council, which is authorized to subject non-bank financial companies such as Prudential Financial to stricter prudential standards and to supervision by the FRB if the Council determines that either (i) material financial distress at the Company, or (ii) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the Company’s activities, could pose a threat to domestic financial stability. Prudential Financial has been a Designated Financial Company since September 2013 under the first criterion. Under Dodd-Frank the Council is required to reevaluate this designation annually. The Council last voted to maintain Prudential Financial’s designation in December 2015.



As a Designated Financial Company, Prudential Financial is subject to supervision and examination by the FRB and to stricter prudential standards. These standards include or may include requirements and limitations (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making as described below) relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, resolution and recovery plans, credit exposure reporting, early remediation, management interlocks and credit concentration. They may also include requirements regarding enhanced public disclosure, short-term debt limits, and other related subjects as may be deemed appropriate by the FRB acting on its own or pursuant to a recommendation of the Council. Thus far the FRB has focused its general supervisory authority over us in several areas, including oversight of our capital planning and risk management processes, model governance and validation, liquidity management, compliance, information and technology security and resolution and recovery planning.



Enhanced Prudential Standards





Also in June 2016, the FRB issued proposed enhanced prudential standards for Designated Financial Companies significantly engaged in insurance activities relating to corporate governance, risk management, and liquidity risk management. The proposed corporate governance standards would require Designated Financial Companies to establish and maintain a risk committee of the board of directors and appoint a chief risk officer and chief actuary. The proposed risk management standards would require Designated Financial Companies to establish a comprehensive risk management framework that includes policies, procedures, and systems for monitoring and managing risk enterprise-wide. The proposed liquidity risk management standards would require periodic cash-flow projections, liquidity stress testing and maintenance of a liquidity buffer. The comment period for this proposal closed on August 17, 2016.











Stress Tests



As a Designated Financial Company, Dodd Frank requires us to be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the FRB to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. Dodd-Frank requires us to submit to annual stress tests conducted by the FRB and to conduct internal annual and semi-annual stress tests to be provided to the FRB. Under FRB rules, Designated Financial Companies must comply with these requirements the calendar year after the year in which a company first becomes subject to the FRB’s minimum regulatory capital requirements discussed above, although the FRB has the discretion to accelerate or extend the effective date. The FRB has indicated that it may tailor the application of the stress test requirements to Designated Financial Companies on an individual basis or by category. Summary results of such stress tests would be required to be publicly disclosed.



Early Remediation



The FRB is required under Dodd-Frank to prescribe regulations for the establishment of an “early remediation” regime for the financial distress of Designated Financial Companies, whereby failure to meet defined measures of financial condition (including regulatory capital, liquidity measures, and other forward-looking indicators) would result in remedial action by the FRB that increases in stringency as the financial condition of the Designated Financial Company declines. Depending on the degree of financial distress, such remedial action could result in capital-raising requirements, limits on transactions with affiliates, management changes and asset sales.



Resolution and Recovery Planning



We are required as a Designated Financial Company to submit to the FRB and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and periodically update in the event of material events, a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of severe financial distress. We submitted our most recent resolution plan in December 2015, which is subject to review for credibility and completeness, and have not yet received feedback from the FBR and FDIC on the plan. In August 2016, the FRB and the FDIC announced that for Designated Financial Companies, including the Company, and certain banking organizations required to file annual resolution plans the next resolution plan filing deadline will be delayed from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017.



If the FRB and the FDIC were to jointly determine that our 2015 resolution plan, or any future resolution plan, is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of the Company under applicable law, and the Company is unable to remedy the identified deficiencies in a timely manner, the regulators may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on the Company or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. Any requirements or restrictions imposed by the FRB and FDIC would cease to apply on the date that the FRB and FDIC jointly determine that the Company has submitted a revised resolution plan that adequately remedies the deficiencies.



The FRB and the FDIC, in consultation with the Council, may also jointly order the Company to divest assets or operations identified by the FRB and FDIC in circumstances where:



•the FRB and the FDIC jointly decide that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company shall be subject to the requirements or restrictions described above due to deficiencies identified in its resolution plan;

•the Company has failed to submit a resolution plan that adequately addresses the deficiencies identified by the FRB and FDIC for the two year period following the imposition of such requirements or restrictions; and

•the FRB and FDIC jointly determine that the divestiture of such assets or operations is necessary to facilitate an orderly resolution of the Company in the event that the Company was to fail.



In addition, in order to develop a resolution plan that the FRB and FDIC determine is credible or would facilitate the orderly resolution of the Company under applicable law, it may be necessary for the Company to take actions to restructure intercompany and external activities or other actions, which could result in increased funding or operational costs.



We are also required to submit to the FRB a recovery plan that describes the steps that the Company could take to reduce risk and conserve or restore liquidity and capital in the event of severe financial stress scenarios. We submitted our first recovery plan in 2016. We are scheduled to submit our next recovery plan in June 2018.



Other Dodd-Frank Regulation



•Dodd-Frank requires the FRB to promulgate regulations that would prohibit Designated Financial Companies from having a credit exposure to any unaffiliated company in excess of 25% of the Designated Financial Company’s capital stock and surplus.









•As a Designated Financial Company, we must seek pre-approval from the FRB for the acquisition of specified interests in certain companies engaged in financial activities.

•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices we and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in.

•As a Designated Financial Company, we could be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds.



Derivatives Regulation



Prudential Global Funding LLC (“PGF”), Prudential Financial and our subsidiaries use derivatives for various purposes, including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures. Dodd-Frank established a framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets. This framework sets out requirements regarding the clearing and reporting of derivatives transactions, as well as collateral posting requirements for uncleared swaps. Inter affiliate swaps entered into between our subsidiaries are generally exempt from most of these requirements.



Regulation of the derivatives markets continues to evolve, and we cannot predict the full effect of regulations yet to be adopted or fully implemented both in the U.S. and abroad. These regulations may significantly increase our hedging costs, and otherwise impact our hedging strategy or implementation thereof, or cause us to increase or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. In particular, we continue to monitor the potential hedging cost impacts of new initial margin requirements that we will be required to comply with in 2020, and increased capital requirements for derivatives transactions that may be imposed on banks that are our counterparties. Additionally, the increased need to post cash collateral in connection with mandatorily cleared swaps may also require the liquidation of higher yielding assets for low yielding cash, resulting in a negative impact on investment income.



Under Dodd-Frank, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) are required to determine, but have not yet determined, whether, and if so, how “stable value contracts” should be treated as swaps under the applicable regulations and whether various other products offered by our insurance subsidiaries should be treated as swaps. If regulated as swaps, we cannot predict how the rules would be applied to such products or the effect on their profitability or attractiveness to our clients.



Federal Insurance Office



Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While the FIO does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the FIO director performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Council and coordinating with the FRB in the application of any stress tests required to be conducted with respect to an insurer.



Securities Laws



Dodd-Frank included various securities law reforms relevant to our business practices. In January 2011, the SEC staff issued a study that recommended that the SEC adopt a uniform federal fiduciary standard of conduct for registered broker-dealers and investment advisers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about securities, which the SEC continues to consider.



Other U.S. Federal Regulation



U.S. Tax Legislation



The Company and certain domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return that includes both life insurance companies and non-life insurance companies. Certain other domestic subsidiaries file separate individual corporate tax returns. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are taxed, and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable foreign statutes. The principal differences between the Company’s actual income tax expense and the 35% statutory federal income tax rate are generally deductions for non-taxable investment income, including the dividends received deduction (the "DRD"), foreign taxes applied at a different tax rate than the U.S. rate and certain tax credits. In addition, as discussed further below, the tax attributes of our products may impact both the Company’s taxable income and our customers’ tax positions. See “Income Taxes” in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s tax position. As discussed further below, there are several potential changes to the tax laws that may impact the Company’s tax position and the attractiveness of our products.











The 2016 Presidential and Congressional election results may make U.S. tax reform more likely in the near term. Tax reform proposals from the past several years, including the House Republicans Tax Reform Blueprint, may be the starting point for such legislative changes. Such proposals have a common theme of modifying the tax law by lowering tax rates and broadening the tax base by reducing or eliminating deductions and other tax expenditures. Overall lower effective individual tax rates could make our products less attractive to customers. It is unclear whether or when Congress may take up overall tax reform and what impact tax reform will have on the Company and its products. However, even in the absence of overall tax reform, Congress could enact more piecemeal tax legislation that would change the Company’s tax profile, make our products less competitive and adversely impact our capital position.



Current U.S. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the inside build-up of investment value of annuities and life insurance products until there are contract distributions and, in general, to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. President Trump’s tax reform proposal published during the 2016 Presidential campaign makes reference to a possible limit on the inside build-up of life insurance for higher earners, although the provision was removed in a later draft. Congress also from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products.



Congress, as well as state and local governments, also consider from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. For example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. As another example, the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service intend to address through guidance the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a major reason for the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Furthermore, the President’s annual budget typically includes proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. In recent years the Obama Administration's proposals have included changes to the taxation of corporate-owned life insurance policies (“COLI”), as well as changes to the DRD. If proposals of this type were enacted, the Company’s sale of COLI, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the Company’s actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings.



There have also been various proposals from Congress and the prior Administration that would impact the way U.S. multinational corporations are taxed, including imposing a liability-based fee on financial services companies, changing how companies importing and exporting goods or services are taxed, changing the deductibility of interest and modifying how net operating losses are used, among other proposals. It is unclear how these or other proposals would impact insurance companies.



The products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions and credits for the Company. Changes in either the U.S. or foreign tax laws may negatively impact the deductions and credits available to the Company, including the ability of the Company to claim foreign tax credits with respect to taxes withheld on separate account products. These changes would increase the Company’s actual tax expense and reduce its consolidated net income.



The level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. Accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. In addition, the adoption of a principles-based approach for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. See “—Insurance Operations—State Insurance Regulation—Financial Regulation—Insurance Reserves and Regulatory Capital” for information on principles based reserves.



For additional discussion of possible tax legislative and regulatory risks that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors.”











ERISA



The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions. Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest. ERISA also provides for civil and criminal penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, asset management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



DOL Fiduciary Rule



In April 2016, the DOL issued a final regulation accompanied by new class exemptions and amendments to long-standing exemptions from the prohibited transaction provisions under ERISA (collectively, the “Rules”), with implementation beginning in April 2017, and compliance with certain additional provisions required by January 2018. The Rules redefine who will be considered a “fiduciary” for purposes of transactions with qualified plans, plan participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”), and generally provide that investment advice to a plan participant or IRA owner will be treated as a fiduciary activity. We have analyzed the Rules’ impact on our operations and are implementing the adjustments that we believe are necessary to come into alignment with the Rules’ requirements. In addition, in January 2017, the DOL issued interpretive guidance on the Rules, and we are evaluating whether or not the guidance will affect our implementation plans.



In February 2017 President Trump directed the DOL to examine the Rules to determine whether they may adversely affect access to retirement information and advice, and if so, to issue a proposed rule rescinding or revising the Rules. The DOL subsequently released a statement indicating that it would consider its legal options to delay the implementation date of the Rules. We cannot predict what impact the review will have on the Rules or if their implementation date will be delayed. In addition, several financial services industry groups have initiated litigation challenging the Rules on both procedural and substantive grounds. The outcome of these litigations may alter whether and how some or all of the Rules are applied to our businesses.



Overall, if the Rules are enacted in their current form, they will result in increased compliance costs and may create increased exposure to legal claims under certain circumstances, including class actions. We believe the Rules will primarily impact our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments and our Prudential Advisors distribution system which we include in the results of our Individual Life segment. Significant aspects of the Rules and their impact on our businesses include the following:



•Prudential Advisors: We are taking the steps we believe are required to comply with the new “best interest contract exemption” for investment advice concerning retirement plans and IRAs, including recommendations to purchase products sold to IRAs, which constitutes a significant part of Prudential Advisors’ non-life insurance new business revenues. The Rules state that proprietary products may be sold to IRA owners if certain conditions are met, subject to significant new requirements for this type of sale, and we are implementing processes that we believe will comply with these requirements. The Rules will impose compliance and contract requirements and will give customers a new private right of action for breach of contract that in some circumstances may result in damages and liability under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code for excise taxes, disgorgement of profit, and other possible remedies. The Rules will lead to changes to compensation and benefit structures, and possibly to our product offerings.



•Annuities: Sales of variable annuities by our retail distributors, including Prudential Advisors, will be subject to the best interest contract exemption described above, but certain fixed annuities can be subject to a separate exemption or to the best interest contract exemption. As a result of the Rules, certain distributors are announcing that they will restrict the sale of certain types of annuities. In addition, we may need to alter our product design, offerings or pricing to meet the needs of certain distributors who may request changes to support their compliance with the Rules. We will need to monitor and limit certain wholesaling and other sales support and customer service activities to continue not to be classified as a fiduciary under the Rules.











•Retirement: We are making certain changes to the asset allocation tools included in our product offerings, which may include illustrations based on specific investments, so that the tools are not expected to fall within the definition of acting as a fiduciary for plan clients. We are developing processes for IRA offerings to comply with the new best interest contract exemption referred to above in connection with recommendations to plan participants to roll assets over to an IRA or retain them in their employer’s retirement plan. In addition, we are making changes to relationships with sponsors and intermediaries for plans with less than $50 million in assets to continue not to be classified as a fiduciary under the Rules. Historically, the substantial majority of our earnings in the Retirement business have not come from IRA offerings, asset retention and consolidation activities, and plans with less than $50 million in assets.



•Asset Management: We may need to alter our product design, offerings or pricing in order to meet the needs of certain distributors of mutual funds who may request changes to support their compliance with the Rules. We will also need to monitor and limit certain wholesaling and other sales support and customer service activities to continue not be classified as a fiduciary under the Rules.



For additional risks associated with the Rules and other laws and regulations affecting our products and services, see “Risk Factors—Regulatory and Legal Risks—Changes in the legislation and regulation of retirement products and services, including the DOL’s new fiduciary Rules, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.”



USA Patriot Act



The USA Patriot Act of 2001 contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain provisions that may be different, conflicting or more rigorous. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut and Indiana, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state’s insurance department.



Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states’ statutes, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state.



Several of our domestic and foreign regulators, including the FRB, participate in an annual supervisory college. The purpose of the supervisory college is to promote ongoing supervisory coordination, facilitate the sharing of information among regulators and to enhance each regulator’s understanding of the Company’s risk profile. The 2016 college was held in October.



Group-Wide Supervision



The New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“NJDOBI”) has acted as the group-wide supervisor of Prudential Financial since 2015 pursuant to New Jersey legislation that authorizes group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups. The law, among other provisions, authorizes NJDOBI to examine Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, including by ascertaining the financial condition of the insurance companies for purposes of assessing enterprise risk. As group-wide supervisor, NJDOBI reviews the Company’s operations beyond those of its New Jersey domiciled insurance subsidiaries.











The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has promulgated model laws for adoption in the United States that would provide for “group-wide” supervision of certain insurance holding companies in addition to the current regulation of insurance subsidiaries. While the timing of their adoption and content will vary by jurisdiction, we have identified the following areas of focus in these model laws: (1) uniform standards for insurer corporate governance; (2) group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies; (3) adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks; and (4) additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies.



Some laws which facilitate group-wide supervision have already been enacted in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”) reporting, which requires larger insurers to assess the adequacy of its and its group’s risk management and current and future solvency position, and Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure reporting, which requires us to report on our governance structure, policies and practices. The NAIC has also formed a working group to develop a U.S. group capital calculation using an RBC aggregation methodology. In constructing the calculation the working group is considering group capital developments undertaken by the FRB and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”). At this time, we cannot predict what, if any, additional capital requirements and compliance costs any new group-wide standards will impose on Prudential Financial.



Insurance Operations



State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and state insurance departments in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. Prudential Insurance is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance regulatory authority is the NJDOBI. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws.



State Insurance Regulation



State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: licensing to transact business; licensing agents; admittance of assets to statutory surplus; regulating premium rates for certain insurance products; approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices; establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; regulating the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted; regulating reinsurance transactions, including the role of captive reinsurers; and other matters.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. The operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time.



State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. During 2016, as part of the normal five year examination, NJDOBI, along with the insurance regulators of Arizona, Connecticut and Indiana commenced a coordinated risk-focused financial examination for the five year period ended December 31, 2016, covering Prudential and all of its subsidiaries in connection with NJDOBI’s role as group-wide supervisor.



Financial Regulation



Dividend Payment Limitations.The New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance companies are domiciled regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by Prudential Insurance and our other U.S. insurance companies. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Risk-Based Capital.In order to enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. The risk-based capital (“RBC”) calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy.











The NAIC’s Investment Risk-Based Capital Working Group has outlined plans to update the RBC factors during 2017 for invested assets including expanding, for RBC purposes, the current six NAIC designations to twenty. Additional adjustments to the RBC calculation are also under consideration by the NAIC, including new charges for longevity risk and operational risk. Due to the ongoing nature of the NAIC’s activities regarding RBC, we cannot determine the ultimate timing of these changes or their impact on RBC or on our financial position.



Insurance Reserves and Regulatory Capital.State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves annually. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our contractual obligations and related expenses.



In June 2016, the NAIC adopted a recommendation that will activate a principles-based reserving approach for life insurance products. Principles-based reserving replaces the reserving methods for life insurance products for which the current formulaic basis for reserves may not accurately reflect the risks or costs of the liability or obligations of the insurer. The principles-based reserving approach has a three-year phase-in period. At the Company's discretion, it may be applied to new individual life business beginning as early as January 1, 2017, and must be applied for all new individual life business issued January 1, 2020 and later. The Company may select different implementation dates for different products. Principles-based reserving will not affect reserves for policies in force prior to January 1, 2017. During 2017, the Company expects to adopt principles-based reserving for its guaranteed universal life products and to introduce updated versions of these products. The updated products are expected to support the principles-based statutory reserve level without the need for captive reserve financing or additional assets under Actuarial Guideline No. 48 (“AG 48”), which is discussed further below. The Company is continuing to assess the impact of this new reserving approach on projected statutory reserve levels and product pricing for its remaining portfolio of individual life product offerings.



As a result of an agreement with the New York State Department of Financial Services (“NY DFS”) regarding our reserving methodologies for certain variable annuity and life insurance products, certain of our New York licensed insurance subsidiaries hold additional statutory reserves on a New York basis, which reduces their New York statutory surplus. None of our U.S. operating insurance companies are domiciled in New York, and these changes do not impact statutory reserves reported in our insurance subsidiaries’ states of domicile, or any states other than New York, and therefore do not impact RBC ratios; however, the agreed reserve methodologies may require us to hold additional New York statutory reserves in the future. If we were required to establish material additional reserves on a New York statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our U.S. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected.



Captive Reinsurance Companies.The NAIC’s actuarial guideline known as AG 48 prescribes an actuarial method to determine the portion of the assets held to support reserves for certain term and universal life policies that must be “primary securities,” which are defined as cash and securities rated by the Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC (subject to some limited exceptions) or, in limited cases, certain other assets. AG 48 provides that reserves in excess of those calculated with the prescribed actuarial method may be supported or financed with a broader range of assets, referred to as “other securities.”AG 48 applies to certain term and universal life insurance policies written from and after January 1, 2015, or written prior to January 1, 2015, but not included in a captive reinsurer financing arrangement as of December 31, 2014. The NAIC adopted a revised Credit for Reinsurance Model Law in January 2016 and the Term and Universal Life Insurance Reserving Financing Model Regulation in December 2016 to replace AG 48. The model regulation is consistent with AG 48, and will replace AG 48 in a state upon the state’s adoption of the model law and regulation.



We have used captive reinsurance subsidiaries to finance the portion of the statutory reserves for term and universal life policies that we consider to be non-economic. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital—Financing Activities—Term and Universal Life Reserve Financing” for a discussion of the impact of AG 48 on our life product reserves and reserve financing.



Variable Annuities.In November 2015, the NAIC adopted the Variable Annuities Framework for Change, which outlines the NAIC’s commitment to change in concept the statutory framework to address concerns that have led to the development and utilization of captive reinsurance transactions for variable annuity business in order to create more consistency across regulators and remove the impetus for insurers to cede risk to captives. The framework contemplates extensive changes to the guidance and rules governing variable annuities, including with regard to reserving, capital, accounting, derivative use limitations and disclosure.











In September 2015, the NAIC’s consultant issued a report with preliminary findings and conclusions covering several sets of ideas for improvements to the current Actuarial Guideline No. 43 (“AG 43”) and RBC “C3 Phase II” framework applicable to variable annuities reserve and capital requirements. The proposed improvements include (i) aligning economically-focused hedge assets with liability valuations, (ii) reforming standard scenarios for AG 43 and C3 Phase II, (iii) revising asset admissibility for derivatives and deferred tax assets, and (iv) standardizing capital market assumptions and aligning total asset requirements and reserves. During 2016 the Company participated in a quantitative impact study (“QIS”) assessing the efficacy and potential impact of the initial proposal. Results of the QIS led to the issuance of a second proposal on detailed recommendations for revising the current variable annuities reserve and capital framework. In 2017 a second QIS is expected to be conducted to test the latest set of framework revisions. Given the uncertainty of the ultimate outcome of these initiatives, at this time we are unable to estimate their expected effects on our future capital, financial position and results of operations.



During 2016 we recaptured the risks related to our variable annuities living benefit riders and certain retirement products that were previously reinsured to our captive reinsurance company in a series of transactions we collectively refer to as the “Variable Annuities Recapture.” While we completed the Variable Annuities Recapture in advance of definitive guidance from the NAIC's Variable Annuities Framework for Change, we believe the Variable Annuities Recapture is reasonably aligned with the key concept changes planned under the framework. For information on the Variable Annuities Recapture, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Variable Annuities Recapture.”



Market Conduct Regulation



State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.



Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments



Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. Many states offer a reimbursement of such assessments in the form of credits against future years’ premium taxes. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we paid $1.5 million, $0.6 million and $28.8 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. The 2014 assessments reflected the Executive Life of New York insolvency, which substantially concluded our assessments related to this matter. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established estimated reserves totaling approximately $47.9 million as of December 31, 2016, for future assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings including Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company, Executive Life of California and Lincoln Memorial Life Insurance Company.



Federal and State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations



Our variable life insurance, variable annuity and mutual fund products generally are “securities” within the meaning of federal securities laws and may be required to be registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Certain of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to SEC public reporting and disclosure requirements based on offerings of these products. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under “—Investment Products and Asset Management Operations” and “—Securities and Commodities Regulation” affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products.



Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are “securities” within the meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.



Investment and Retirement Products and Asset Management Operations



Our investment products and services are subject to federal and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments and the DOL are the principal U.S. regulators that regulate our asset management operations. In some cases our domestic U.S. investment operations are also subject to non-U.S. securities laws and regulations.











Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being registered under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as amended, and are subject to federal and state regulation. In addition, we have subsidiaries that are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our third-party advisors and licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those individuals. The federal securities laws could also require re-approval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control.



Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. Over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with pension plans.



Securities and Commodities Regulation



We have subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, investment advisers, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisers. The SEC, the CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the principal regulators of these subsidiaries.



Our broker-dealer and commodities affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation by, “self-regulatory organizations,” including FINRA and the NFA. Self-regulatory organizations conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their members. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our registered broker-dealers. Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC, CFTC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory agencies, have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer, an investment adviser or commodities firm or its employees. Our U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to federal net capital requirements that may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Privacy Regulation and Cybersecurity



We are subject to laws, regulations and directives that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect the security and confidentiality of personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify their customers and other individuals of their policies and practices relating to the collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information. In addition, we must comply with international privacy laws, regulations, and directives concerning the cross border transfer or use of employee and customer personal information. These laws, regulations and directives also:



•provide additional protections regarding the use and disclosure of certain information such as social security numbers;

•require notice to affected individuals, regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information;

•require financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;

•regulate the process by which financial institutions make telemarketing calls and send e-mail or fax messages to consumers and customers; and

•prescribe the permissible uses of certain personal information, including customer information and consumer report information.











Financial regulators in the U.S. and international jurisdictions in which we operate continue to focus on cybersecurity, including in proposed rulemaking, and have communicated heightened expectations and have increased emphasis in this area in their examinations of regulated entities. In addition, legislative and regulatory bodies may consider additional or more detailed or restrictive laws and regulations regarding these subjects and the privacy and security of personal information.



The NY DFS issued a proposed new cybersecurity regulation in September 2016 and a revised proposal in December 2016.  The regulation would require financial institutions regulated by NY DFS, including our insurance subsidiaries licensed in New York, to establish a cybersecurity program. The regulation includes specific technical safeguards as well as requirements regarding governance, incident planning, data management, system testing and regulator notification. The regulation goes into effect on March 1, 2017, subject to any further revisions that may arise as part of the comment process. The Company is taking steps to comply with the regulation.



In addition, in October, 2016, the FRB, FDIC, and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency approved a joint advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards for certain regulated financial institutions, including Prudential. The standards address governance, management, internal dependency management, external dependency management, incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. The agencies are also considering proposing more stringent “Sector Critical Standards” that would apply to systems “deemed critical to the financial sector.”



The Company is monitoring regulatory guidance and rulemaking in this area, and may be subject to increased compliance costs and regulatory requirements as a result of any new requirements. For a discussion of the Company’s privacy and information security policies, procedures and standards, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management—Risk Exposure and Monitoring—Operational Risk Management.”



Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking environmental assessments, among other measures prior to taking title to real estate.



Unclaimed Property Laws



We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Regulation of our International Businesses



Our international businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. As in the U.S., the purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect our customers and not our shareholders or debt holders. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. Many of the laws and regulations to which our international businesses are subject are regularly re-examined, in some instances resulting in comprehensive restatements of applicable laws, regulations and reorganization of supervising authorities. In some instances, regulators may impose different, or more rigorous laws and requirements to protect policyholders or their financial system from perceived systemic risk, including regulations governing privacy, consumer protection, employee protection, corporate governance and capital adequacy. These changes may adversely affect our operations, increase compliance costs, and increase potential regulatory exposure.



In addition, our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers’ associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that limit our ability to transfer funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or to convert local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to joint venture partner risks and limits our array of potential remedies in the event of a breach by a partner.











International Insurance Regulation



Our international insurance operations are principally supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”), the financial services regulator in Japan. We operate insurance companies in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Poland and have insurance operations in India, China and Malaysia through joint ventures. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of insurance sales staff, insurance product approvals, sales practices, claims payment practices, permissible investments, solvency and capital adequacy, and insurance reserves, among other items. In some jurisdictions, for certain products, regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses.



In order to monitor insurers’ solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate outside the U.S. generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency margins are used by regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. The solvency margin ratios (“SMR”) in certain jurisdictions are required to be disclosed to the public. Insurers that have less solvency margin than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy.



Our Japan insurance operations are subject to a consolidated basis capital standard. This standard prescribes the manner in which an insurance company’s capital is calculated and is meant to respond to changes in financial markets, improve risk management practices of insurers and consider risks associated with the insurer’s subsidiaries. In 2016 the FSA conducted a field test of a potential market based alternative to the SMR framework that closely aligned with components of the IAIS’s 2016 field test described below under “—Other—International and Global Regulatory Initiatives.” We cannot predict whether changes to the SMR will be adopted, or if they will result in additional capital requirements and compliance costs.



Further changes in solvency regulation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may arise based on the regulatory standards developed by the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), IAIS or authorities in the U.S. or the European Economic Area (“EEA”). FSB and IAIS developments are described below under “International and Global Regulatory Initiatives.” In 2016 the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the EEA became subject to the Solvency II Directive, including our insurance subsidiaries based in the EEA. This new regime effected a full revision of the insurance industry’s solvency framework and prudential regime (in particular minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards) and imposed, among other things, group level supervision mechanisms.



The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the amount of dividends that they can pay to shareholders. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the ability of our international subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial.



Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are required to be members of and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation (“PPC”). These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we paid approximately $24 million, $25 million and $26 million, respectively, based on fixed currency exchange rates, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws.



Other International Regulation











Our non-insurance international operations are also supervised primarily by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. We operate investment-related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the U.K., Hong Kong, Mexico, Germany and Singapore, and participate in investment-related joint ventures in India, Brazil, Italy and China and a retirement related joint venture in Chile. These businesses may provide products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds, separately managed accounts and retirement products. The regulatory authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as company licensing, the licensing of investment product sales staff, sales practices, solvency and capital adequacy, mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures, and securities, commodities and related laws, among other items. In some cases, our international investment operations are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations.



Our international businesses may also be subject to U.S. laws governing businesses controlled by U.S. companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, various anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and certain regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Controls. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances and we may be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Furthermore, certain of our businesses, particularly those with operations in the U.K., are also subject to the U.K.’s Anti-Bribery Law, which governs interactions with both governmental and private commercial entities.



In June 2016, the U.K. approved a non-binding referendum to exit the European Union. The formal process for the U.K. to exit from the European Union would ultimately be triggered by the filing of a notice to withdraw and a negotiation between the U.K. and the European Union on the timing and terms of the exit. The outcome of the negotiations will determine the ultimate impact of the exit on our operations and investments in those jurisdictions and may lead to volatility in currency exchange rates and asset prices, as well as changes in regulation. See “General Account Investments—General Account Investments of PFI excluding Closed Block Division—Fixed Maturity Securities—Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains (Losses) by Industry Category” for a discussion of our U.K. and European Union related investment exposures and see “Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division—Retirement—Operating Results” for a discussion of Retirement segment business denominated in pounds sterling.



International Tax Legislation



Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could impact the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products.



On March 20, 2014, Japan repealed the Special Reconstruction Corporation Tax reducing the national corporate tax rate from 28.05% to 25.5% for tax years beginning on or after April, 1, 2014. The national corporate rate was further reduced to 23.9% for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2015 and to 23.4% for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2016 and to 23.2% for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2018. The Japanese consumption tax rate increased on April 1, 2014 from 5% to 8%. The consumption tax rate that was scheduled to increase to 10% on April 1, 2017 has been delayed and is now scheduled to increase to 10% on October 1, 2019. Insurance commissions paid to our Life Planners and Life Consultants are subject to consumption tax for individuals exceeding certain earnings thresholds; however, the tax is not charged on employee compensation (other than commissions) or insurance premiums. The consumption tax increase has led to increased costs for insurers.



Other International and Global Regulatory Initiatives



In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, lawmakers around the world are actively exploring steps to avoid future financial crises. In many respects, this work is being led by the FSB, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20, the FSB and related bodies have developed proposals to address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues.



We have been identified by the FSB as a global systemically important insurer (“G-SII”) since July 2013. The IAIS, acting at the direction of the FSB, has released two group-wide capital standards applicable to G-SIIs. The basic capital requirement (“BCR”), which was approved by the FSB and G20 in November 2014, is a globally consistent and comparable baseline capital metric. The higher loss absorbency (“HLA”) standard, which was approved by the FSB and G20 in November 2015, establishes a capital buffer to be held in addition to the BCR. As a standard setting body, the IAIS does not have direct authority to require G-SIIs to comply with the BCR and HLA standards; however, if they are adopted by group supervisory authorities in the U.S., Prudential Financial could become subject to these standards. The IAIS has stated its intention to revisit HLA design and calibration prior to the proposed implementation in 2019 to account for changes in related policy measures including the updated G-SII Assessment Methodology, which was published in 2016. Prudential Financial’s capital level is expected to be above the initial calibration for both standards.











The IAIS is also developing the Common Framework (“ComFrame”) for the supervision of firms that meet the IAIS’ Internationally Active Insurance Group criteria, such as Prudential Financial. Through ComFrame, the IAIS seeks to promote effective and globally consistent supervision of the insurance industry and contribute to global financial stability through uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management and other control functions, group-wide supervision and group capital adequacy. In 2016 the IAIS released a public consultation requesting comments on their Risk-based Global Insurance Capital Standard (“ICS”) which is the capital adequacy component of ComFrame. The IAIS has committed to conducting further public consultations on the various components of ComFrame prior to its adoption, which would occur in 2019 at the earliest.



In addition to public consultations, the IAIS continues to conduct ongoing field tests of their capital standards, which are intended to help the IAIS refine the standards prior to their scheduled adoption. The 2016 field test focused on development of the ICS and served as the vehicle for voluntary confidential reporting of BCR and HLA results to Prudential Financial’s group-wide supervisors. At this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements and compliance costs ComFrame, the BCR or HLA would impose on us, if adopted by U.S. group supervisory authorities.



The foregoing requirements and developments could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within the U.S. and abroad. The possibility of inconsistent and conflicting regulation of the Prudential Financial “group” of companies also exists as law makers and regulators in multiple jurisdictions simultaneously pursue these initiatives.



Employees



As of December 31, 2016, we had 49,739 employees and sales associates, including 29,209 located outside of the U.S. We believe our relations with our employees and sales associates are satisfactory.



Available Information



Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained through the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.





