Item 1.Business.

General description of business

Halliburton Company’s predecessor was established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1924. We are a leading provider of services and products to the upstream oil and natural gas industry throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir, from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production throughout the life of the field. We serve major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies throughout the world and operate undertwodivisions, which form the basis for thetwooperating segments we report, the Completion and Production segment and the Drilling and Evaluation segment:

-our Completion and Production segment delivers cementing, stimulation, intervention, pressure control, specialty chemicals, artificial lift, and completion products and services. The segment consists of Production Enhancement, Cementing, Completion Tools, Boots & Coots, Multi-Chem, and Artificial Lift.

-our Drilling and Evaluation segment provides field and reservoir modeling, drilling, evaluation, and precise wellbore placement solutions that enable customers to model, measure, drill, and optimize their well construction activities. The segment consists of Baroid, Sperry Drilling, Wireline and Perforating, Drill Bits and Services, Landmark Software and Services, Testing and Subsea, and Consulting and Project Management.

SeeNote 3to the consolidated financial statements for further financial information related to each of our business segments and a description of the services and products provided by each segment. We have significant manufacturing operations in various locations, including the United States, Canada, China, Malaysia, Singapore, and the United Kingdom.

Pending Acquisition of Baker Hughes

On November 16, 2014, we and Baker Hughes Incorporated ("Baker Hughes") entered into a merger agreement under which, subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, we will acquire all the outstanding shares of Baker Hughes in a stock and cash transaction. Baker Hughes is a leading supplier of oilfield services, products, technology and systems to the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2015. SeeNote 2to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the pending acquisition.

Business strategy

Our business strategy is to secure a distinct and sustainable competitive position as an oilfield service company by delivering services and products that enable our customers to extract proven reserves and maximize recovery. Our objectives are to:

-create a balanced portfolio of services and products supported by global infrastructure and anchored by technological innovation to further differentiate our company;

-reach a distinguished level of operational excellence that reduces costs and creates real value;

-preserve a dynamic workforce by being a preferred employer to attract, develop, and retain the best global talent; and

-uphold our strong ethical and business standards, and maintain the highest standards of health, safety, and environmental performance.

Markets and competition

We are one of the world’s largest diversified energy services companies. Our services and products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include:

-price;

-  service delivery (including the ability to deliver services and products on an “as needed, where needed”  basis);

-health, safety, and environmental standards and practices;

-service quality;

-global talent retention;

-understanding the geological characteristics of the hydrocarbon reservoir;

-product quality;

-warranty; and

-technical proficiency.

We conduct business worldwide in approximately80countries. The business operations of our divisions are organized around four primary geographic regions: North America, Latin America, Europe/Africa/CIS, and Middle East/Asia. In2014,2013, and2012, based on the location of services provided and products sold,51%,49%, and53%of our consolidated revenue was from the United States. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue during these periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Environment and Results of Operations” andNote 3to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our geographic operations in the last three years. Because the markets for our services and products are vast and cross numerous geographic lines, it is not practicable to provide a meaningful estimate of the total number of our competitors. The industries we










serve are highly competitive, and we have many substantial competitors. Most of our services and products are marketed through our servicing and sales organizations.

Operations in some countries may be adversely affected by unsettled political conditions, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation or other governmental actions, foreign currency exchange restrictions, and highly inflationary currencies, as well as other geopolitical factors. We believe the geographic diversification of our business activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country, other than the United States, would significantly impact the conduct of our operations taken as a whole.

Information regarding our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, risk concentration, and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Instrument Market Risk” and inNote 14to the consolidated financial statements.

Customers

Our revenue from continuing operations during the past three years was derived from the sale of services and products to the energy industry. No customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in any period presented.

Raw materials

Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available. Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, such as proppants, hydrochloric acid, and gels, including guar gum (a blending additive used in our hydraulic fracturing process). We are always seeking ways to ensure the availability of resources, as well as manage costs of raw materials. Our procurement department uses our size and buying power to enhance our access to key materials at competitive prices.

Research and development costs

We maintain an active research and development program. The program improves products, processes, and engineering standards and practices that serve the changing needs of our customers, such as those related to high pressure and high temperature environments, and also develops new products and processes. Our expenditures for research and development activities were$601 millionin2014,$588 millionin2013, and$460 millionin2012. We sponsored over95%of these expenditures in each year.

Patents

We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial number of patent applications covering various products and processes. We are also licensed to utilize technology covered by patents owned by others, and we license others to utilize technology covered by our patents. We do not consider any particular patent to be material to our business operations.

Seasonality

Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the performance of our services, but the widespread geographical locations of our operations mitigate those effects. Examples of how weather can impact our business include:

-the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on natural gas storage levels and drilling activity;

-the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions;

-typhoons and hurricanes can disrupt coastal and offshore operations; and

-severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia.

Additionally, customer spending patterns for software and various other oilfield services and products can result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of the year.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2014, we employed more than80,000people worldwide compared to approximately77,000atDecember 31, 2013. AtDecember 31, 2014, approximately16%of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Based upon the geographic diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole.

Environmental regulation

We are subject to numerous environmental, legal, and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. For further information related to environmental matters and regulation, seeNote 9to the consolidated financial statements and Item 1(a), “Risk Factors.”

Hydraulic fracturing process

Hydraulic fracturing is a process that creates fractures extending from the well bore into the rock formation to enable natural gas or oil to move more easily from the rock pores to a production conduit. A significant portion of our Completion and Production segment provides hydraulic fracturing services to customers developing shale natural gas and shale oil. From time to time, questions arise about the scope of our operations in the shale natural gas and shale oil sectors, and the extent to which these operations may affect human health and the environment.










We sometimes design and generally implement a hydraulic fracturing operation to 'stimulate' the well's production, at the direction of our customer, once the well has been drilled, cased, and cemented. Our customer is generally responsible for providing the base fluid (usually water) used in the hydraulic fracturing of a well. We supply the proppant (often sand) and at least a portion of the additives used in the overall fracturing fluid mixture. In addition, we mix the additives and proppant with the base fluid and pump the mixture down the wellbore to create the desired fractures in the target formation. The customer is responsible for disposing of any materials that are subsequently produced or pumped out of the well, including flowback fluids and produced water.

As part of the process of constructing the well, the customer will take a number of steps designed to protect drinking water resources. In particular, the casing and cementing of the well are designed to provide 'zonal isolation' so that the fluids pumped down the wellbore and the oil and natural gas and other materials that are subsequently pumped out of the well will not come into contact with shallow aquifers or other shallow formations through which those materials could potentially migrate to freshwater aquifers or the surface.

The potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing have been studied by numerous government entities and others. In 2004, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducted an extensive study of hydraulic fracturing practices, focusing on coalbed methane wells, and their potential effect on underground sources of drinking water. The EPA’s study concluded that hydraulic fracturing of coalbed methane wells poses little or no threat to underground sources of drinking water. At the request of Congress, the EPA is currently undertaking another study of the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water resources that will focus on the fracturing of shale natural gas wells.

We have made detailed information regarding our fracturing fluid composition and breakdown available on our internet web site atwww.halliburton.com. We also have proactively developed processes to provide our customers with the chemical constituents of our hydraulic fracturing fluids to enable our customers to comply with state laws as well as voluntary standards established by the Chemical Disclosure Registry,www.fracfocus.org.

At the same time, we have invested considerable resources in developing our CleanSuite™ hydraulic fracturing technologies, which offer our customers a variety of especially environment-friendly alternatives related to the use of hydraulic fracturing fluid additives and other aspects of our hydraulic fracturing operations. We created a hydraulic fracturing fluid system comprised of materials sourced entirely from the food industry. In addition, we have engineered a process that uses ultraviolet light to control the growth of bacteria in hydraulic fracturing fluids, allowing customers to minimize the use of chemical biocides. We are committed to the continued development of innovative chemical and mechanical technologies that allow for more economical and environmentally friendly development of the world’s oil and natural gas reserves.

In evaluating any environmental risks that may be associated with our hydraulic fracturing services, it is helpful to understand the role that we play in the development of shale natural gas and shale oil. Our principal task generally is to manage the process of injecting fracturing fluids into the borehole to 'stimulate' the well. Thus, based on the provisions in our contracts and applicable law, the primary environmental risks we face are potential pre-injection spills or releases of stored fracturing fluids and potential spills or releases of fuel or other fluids associated with pumps, blenders, conveyors, or other above-ground equipment used in the hydraulic fracturing process.

Although possible concerns have been raised about hydraulic fracturing operations, the circumstances described above have helped to mitigate those concerns. To date, we have not been obligated to compensate any indemnified party for any environmental liability arising directly from hydraulic fracturing, although there can be no assurance that such obligations or liabilities will not arise in the future.

Working capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flow generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs.

Web site access

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our internet web site at

www.halliburton.com

as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed the material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and our other SEC filings. The address of that web site is

www.sec.gov

. We have posted on our web site our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all of our employees and Directors and serves as a code of ethics for our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and other persons performing similar functions. Any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct or any waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct granted to the specified officers above are disclosed on our web site within four business days after the date of any amendment or waiver pertaining to these officers. There have been no waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct for the years


,


, or


. Except to the extent expressly stated otherwise, information contained on or accessible from our web site or any other web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.












Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers of Halliburton Company as ofFebruary 24, 2015, including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years:





Name and AgeOffices Held and Term of Office

James S. Brown(Age 60)President, Western Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since January 2008



*Christian A. Garcia(Age 51)Senior Vice President, Finance and Acting Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2015

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Halliburton Company, January 2014 to December 2014

Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, September 2011 to December 2013

Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of Halliburton Company, January 2011 to August 2011

Vice President, Investor Relations of Halliburton Company, December 2007 to December 2010



Charles E. Geer, Jr.(Age 44)Vice President and Corporate Controller of Halliburton Company, since January 2015

Vice President, Finance of Halliburton Company, December 2013 to December 2014

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Select Energy Services, April 2011 to November 2013

Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer of Weatherford International, June 2010 to March 2011

Corporate Controller of Weatherford International, September 2007 to May 2010



Myrtle L. Jones(Age 55)Senior Vice President, Tax of Halliburton Company, since March 2013

Senior Managing Director of Tax and Internal Audit, Service Corporation International, February 2008 to February 2013



*David J. Lesar(Age 61)Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton Company, since August 2014

Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton Company, August 2000 to July 2014



Mark A. McCollum(Age 55)Executive Vice President and Chief Integration Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2015

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, January 2008 to December 2014



Timothy M. McKeon(Age 42)Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, since January 2014

Assistant Treasurer of Halliburton Company, September 2011 to December 2013

Director of Finance, Drilling & Evaluation Division of Halliburton Company, February 2011 to August 2011

Director of Treasury Operations of Halliburton Company, March 2009 to January 2011



*Jeffrey A. Miller(Age 51)President of Halliburton Company, since August 2014

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Halliburton Company, September 2012 to July 2014










Senior Vice President, Global Business Development and Marketing of Halliburton Company, January 2011 to August 2012Senior Vice President, Gulf of Mexico Region of Halliburton Company, January 2010 to December 2010*Lawrence J. Pope(Age 46)Executive Vice President of Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2008Joe D. Rainey(Age 58)President, Eastern Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since January 2011Senior Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, January 2010 to December 2010*Robb L. Voyles         (Age 57)Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Halliburton Company, since January 2014Senior Vice President, Law of Halliburton Company, September 2013 to December 2013Partner, Baker Botts L.L.P., January 1989 to August 2013

* Members of the Policy Committee of the registrant.



There are no family relationships between the executive officers of the registrant or between any director and any executive officer of the registrant.












