Item 1.  Business.

General description of business

Halliburton Company’s predecessor was established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1924.  We provide a variety of services and products to customers in the energy industry related to the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas.  We serve major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies throughout the world and operate under two divisions, which form the basis for the two operating segments we report:  the Completion and Production segment and the Drilling and Evaluation segment.  See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further financial information related to each of our business segments and a description of the services and products provided by each segment.

Business strategy

Our business strategy is to secure a distinct and sustainable competitive position as an oilfield service company by delivering products and services to our customers that maximize their production and recovery and realize proven reserves from difficult environments.  Our objectives are to:

-create a balanced portfolio of products and services supported by global infrastructure and anchored by technology innovation with a well-integrated digital strategy to further differentiate our company;-reach a distinguished level of operational excellence that reduces costs and creates real value from everything we do;-preserve a dynamic workforce by being a preferred employer to attract, develop, and retain the best global talent; and-uphold the ethical and business standards of the company and maintain the highest standards of health, safety, and environmental performance.

Markets and competition

We are one of the world’s largest diversified energy services companies.  Our services and products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world.  Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include:

-price;-service delivery (including the ability to deliver services and products on an “as needed, where needed” basis);-health, safety, and environmental standards and practices;-service quality;-global talent retention;-understanding of the geological characteristics of the hydrocarbon reservoir;-product quality;-warranty; and-technical proficiency.






We conduct business worldwide in approximately 80 countries.  The business operations of our divisions are organized around four primary geographic regions: North America, Latin America, Europe/Africa/CIS, and Middle East/Asia.  In 2010, based on the location of services provided and products sold, 46% of our consolidated revenue was from the United States.  In 2009 and 2008, 36% and 43% of our consolidated revenue was from the United States.  No other country accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue during these periods.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Environment and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information a
bout geographic operations in the last three years.  Because the markets for our services and products are vast and cross numerous geographic lines, a meaningful estimate of the total number of competitors cannot be made.  The industries we serve are highly competitive, and we have many substantial competitors.  Largely, all of our services and products are marketed through our servicing and sales organizations.

Operations in some countries may be adversely affected by unsettled political conditions, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation or other governmental actions, exchange control problems, and highly inflationary currencies.  We believe the geographic diversification of our business activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole.

Information regarding our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, risk concentration, and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Instrument Market Risk” and in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.

Customers

Our revenue from continuing operations during the past three years was derived from the sale of services and products to the energy industry.  No customer represented more than 10% of consolidated revenue in any period presented.

Raw materials

Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available.  Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, such as sand, cement, and specialty metals.  We are always seeking ways to ensure the availability of resources, as well as manage costs of raw materials.  Our procurement department is using our size and buying power through several programs designed to ensure that we have access to key materials at competitive prices.

Research and development costs

We maintain an active research and development program.  The program improves existing products and processes, develops new products and processes, and improves engineering standards and practices that serve the changing needs of our customers, such as those related to high pressure/high temperature environments.  Our expenditures for research and development activities were $366 million in 2010, $325 million in 2009, and $326 million in 2008, of which over 96% was company-sponsored in each year.

Patents

We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial number of patent applications covering various products and processes.  We are also licensed to utilize patents owned by others.  We do not consider any particular patent to be material to our business operations.






Seasonality

Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the performance of our services, but the widespread geographical locations of our operations serve to mitigate those effects.  Examples of how weather can impact our business include:

-the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on natural gas storage levels and drilling activity for natural gas;-the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions;-typhoons and hurricanes can disrupt coastal and offshore operations; and-severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia.

In addition, due to higher spending near the end of the year by customers for software and completion tools and services, these operations are generally stronger in the fourth quarter of the year than at the beginning of the year.

Employees

At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 58,000 people worldwide compared to approximately 51,000 at December 31, 2009.  At December 31, 2010, approximately 18% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements.  Based upon the geographic diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole.

Environmental regulation

We are subject to numerous environmental, legal, and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide.  For further information related to environmental matters and regulation, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, Item 1(a), “Risk Factors,” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”

Working capital

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flow generated from operations.  In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs.

Web site access

www.halliburton.com

www.sec.gov






Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers of Halliburton Company as of February 11, 2011, including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years:



Name and AgeOffices Held and Term of Office

Joseph F. AndolinoSenior Vice President, Tax of Halliburton Company, since January 2011

(Age 57)Vice President, Business Development of Goodrich Corporation,

January 2009  to December 2010

Vice President, Tax and Business Development of Goodrich Corporation,

November 1999 to December 2008



Evelyn M. AngelleSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Halliburton Company,

(Age 43)since January 2011

Vice President, Corporate Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer of

Halliburton Company, January 2008 to January 2011

Vice President, Operations Finance of Halliburton Company,

December 2007 to January 2008

Vice President, Investor Relations of Halliburton Company,

April 2005 to November 2007



James S. BrownPresident, Western Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since January 2008

(Age 56)Senior Vice President, Western Hemisphere of Halliburton Company,

June 2006 to December 2007

Senior Vice President, United States Region of Halliburton Company,

December 2003 to June 2006



*      Albert O. Cornelison, Jr.Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Halliburton Company,

(Age 61)since December 2002



*      David J. LesarChairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton

(Age 57)Company, since August 2000

*      Mark A. McCollumExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company,

(Age 51)since January 2008

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Halliburton Company,

August 2003 to December 2007



Craig W. NunezSenior Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company,

(Age 49)since January 2007

Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, February 2006

to January 2007








Name and AgeOffices Held and Term of OfficeJoe D. RaineyPresident, Eastern Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since January 2011(Age 54)Senior Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, January2010 to December 2010Vice President, Eurasia Pacific Region of Halliburton Company, January 2009to December 2009Vice President, Asia Pacific Region of Halliburton Company, February 2005 toDecember 2008*      Lawrence J. PopeExecutive Vice President of Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer(Age 42)of Halliburton Company, since January 2008Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of HalliburtonCompany, January 2006 to December 2007*      Timothy J. ProbertPresident, Strategy and Corporate Development of Halliburton Company,(Age 59)since January 2011President, Global Business Lines and Corporate Development ofHalliburton Company, January 2010 to January 2011President, Drilling and Evaluation Division and CorporateDevelopment of Halliburton Company, March 2009 to December 2009Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development of HalliburtonCompany, January 2008 to March 2009Senior Vice President, Drilling and Evaluation of Halliburton Company,July 2007 to December 2007Senior Vice President, Drilling and Evaluation and Digital Solutions ofHalliburton Company, May 2006 to July 2007Vice President, Drilling and Formation Evaluation of Halliburton Company,January 2003 to May 2006



*      Members of the Policy Committee of the registrant.



There are no family relationships between the executive officers of the registrant or between any director and any executive officer of the registrant.






