ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General



West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (which may be referred to asWest, theCompany,we,usorour) is a manufacturer of components and systems for the packaging and delivery of injectable drugs as well as delivery system components for the pharmaceutical, healthcare and consumer products industries. Our products include stoppers and seals for vials, prefillable syringe components and systems, components for intravenous and blood collection systems, safety and administration systems, advanced injection systems, and contract design and manufacturing services. Our customers include the leading global producers and distributors of pharmaceuticals, biologics, medical devices and personal care products. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923.



All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., either directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries unless noted otherwise. Teflon® is a registered trademark of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company. Daikyo Crystal Zenith® (“CZ”) is a registered trademark of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



Throughout this report, references to “Notes” refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K"), unless otherwise indicated.



West Website



We maintain a website atwww.westpharma.com. Our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website under theInvestors - SEC Filingscaption as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room.



Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2013 Proxy Statement”), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of our 2012 fiscal year. Our 2013 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 31, 2013, under the captionInvestors - Proxy Materials.



Information about our corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees, Committee Charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board is available on our website under theInvestors - Corporate Governancecaption. We intend to make any required disclosures regarding any amendments of our Code of Business Conduct or waivers granted to any of our directors or executive officers under the headingCode of Business Conducton our website. Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan is also available on our website under theInvestors - Transfer Agent/Dividend Reinvestment Programcaption.



We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to John R. Gailey III, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., 530 Herman O. West Drive, Exton, PA 19341.



Business Segments



Our business operations are organized into two reportable segments, which are aligned with the underlying markets and customers they serve. Our reportable segments are the Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems segment (“Packaging Systems”) and the Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems segment (“Delivery Systems”).












Packaging Systems Segment



Our Packaging Systems segment develops, manufactures and sells primary packaging components and systems for injectable drug delivery, including stoppers and seals for vials, closures and other components used in syringe, intravenous and blood collection systems, and prefillable syringe components.  The growth strategy for Packaging Systems includes organic growth through market segmentation, new-product innovation, strategic acquisitions and geographic expansion. We have manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia, with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan.  See Item 2,Properties,for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites.



Packaging Systems consists of three operating segments - Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific - which are aggregated for reporting purposes.



Packaging Systems' products generally consist of elastomeric components offered in a variety of standard and customer-specific configurations and formulations, which are available with advanced barrier films and coatings to enhance their performance. West FluroTec barrier film is applied using a patented molding process to reduce the risk of product loss by contamination and protect the shelf life of packaged drugs. We also apply a Teflon coating to the surface of stoppers and plungers to improve compatibility between the closure and the drug. B2-coating is a coating applied to the surface of stoppers and plungers using a patented process that eliminates the need for conventional silicone application. It helps manufacturers reduce product rejections due to trace levels of silicone molecules found in non-coated packaged drug compounds. FluroTec and B2-coating technologies are licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



In addition, our Westar® RS and Westar RU post-manufacturing processes are documented and fully validated procedures for washing and siliconizing stoppers and syringe components to remove biological materials and endotoxins. The Westar RS process prepares components for introduction into the customer's sterilizer and the Westar RU process provides sterilized components. These processes increase the overall efficiency of injectable drug production by outsourcing component processing, thereby eliminating steps otherwise required in each of our customers' manufacturing processes, and help to assure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements for component preparation. We also offer Envision™ components that are inspected using automated vision inspection systems, ensuring that components (plungers and stoppers) meet enhanced quality specifications for visible and subvisible particulate and contamination.



Our recently-introduced NovaPure®components, which include serum and lyophilization stoppers and syringe plungers, incorporate quality by design principles and are manufactured utilizing advanced process technologies. The closures provide the highest levels of quality to the market, helping to ensure the safety, efficacy and purity of injectable drug products.



Our tamper-evident Flip-Off® seals are sold in a wide range of sizes and colors to meet customers' needs for product identification and differentiation. The seals can be provided using proprietary printing for cautionary statements and embossing technology that can serve as a counterfeiting deterrence.



As an adjunct to our Packaging Systems products, we offer contract analytical laboratory services for testing and evaluating primary drug-packaging components and their compatibility with the contained drug formulation. West Analytical Services provides us and our customers with in-depth knowledge and analysis of the interaction and compatibility of drug products with elastomer, glass and plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories also provide specialized testing for complete drug delivery systems.



See Note 5,Segment Information,for net sales information for Packaging Systems.



Delivery Systems Segment



Our Delivery Systems segment develops, manufactures and sells safety and administration systems, multi-component systems for drug administration and a variety of custom contract-manufacturing solutions targeted to the healthcare and consumer-products industries. Delivery Systems has expertise in product design and development, including in-house mold design and construction, an engineering center for developmental and prototype tooling, process design and validation and high-speed automated assemblies. In addition, Delivery Systems is responsible for the continued development and commercialization of our line of proprietary healthcare, administrative and advanced injection systems, including Daikyo CZ, SmartDose® and other systems. Delivery Systems has manufacturing operations in North America and Europe. See Item 2,Properties, for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites.












Delivery Systems offers a variety of products and services, which are described below:



We offer customer contract-manufacturing and assembly solutions, which use such technologies as multi-component molding, in-mold labeling, ultrasonic welding and clean room molding and device assembly used to manufacture customer-owned components and devices used in surgical, diagnostic, ophthalmic, other drug delivery systems, personal care and consumer products.



Our administration systems include sterile devices for the administration of drug products, including patented products such as the MixJectTMtransfer device, the Mix2VialTMneedleless reconstitution system and vial adapters.



Examples of our safety systems that are designed to prevent needle sticks are érisTMand B.Safe® for prefilled syringes and NovaGuardTMfor luer lock syringes.



The Daikyo CZ 1ml long Insert Needle syringe system is the market's first syringe system without silicone oil lubrication applied to the barrel or plunger and that incorporates an insert-molded needle to avoid the need for adhesive. The luer lock version of the Daikyo CZ syringe system was introduced previously, along with several sizes of sterile vials. Additional sizes of vials continue to be introduced. CZ technology is licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



Our SmartDose electronic patch injector system was introduced during 2010 and is under evaluation by many biopharmaceutical companies. This system is designed for controlled, subcutaneous delivery of high volume and high viscosity drugs, using prefilled Daikyo CZ cartridges. The system is fully programmable, has a single push-button operation and a hidden needle for safety.



The ConfiDose® and SelfDoseTMauto-injector systems enhance patient compliance and safety. The needle remains shielded at all times and retracts automatically after the injection. These systems eliminate preparation steps and automate the injection of drugs, providing patients with a sterile, single-use disposable system that can be readily used at home.



See Note 5,Segment Information,for net sales information for Delivery Systems.



Restructuring Initiatives



In December 2010, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2010 plan") designed to reduce our cost structure and improve operating efficiency. The plan involved the 2011 closure of a plant in the United States, a reduction in operations at a manufacturing facility in England, and the elimination of certain operational and administrative functions in other locations. Under this plan, we incurred total restructuring and related charges of $21.9 million, including $2.1 million in 2012. We do not expect to incur any future charges related to the 2010 plan, and the remaining restructuring obligations at December 31, 2012, will be reduced to zero as payments are made.



See Note 3,Restructuring and Other Items,for further discussion.



International



We have significant operations outside of the United States.  They are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations – Packaging Systems and Delivery Systems.  Sales outside of the United States account for 53% of consolidated net sales. For a geographic breakdown of sales, see Note 5,Segment Information.



Although the general business processes are similar to the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks.  These risks include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar, multiple tax jurisdictions and, particularly in South America and Israel, political and social issues that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products.



See further discussion of our international operations, the risks associated with our international operations, and our attempt to minimize some of these risks in Part I, Item 1A,Risk Factors;Part II, Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsunder the captionFinancial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources;Part II, Item 7A,Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk;Note 1under the captionsFinancial InstrumentsandForeign Currency Translation;and Note 12,Derivative Financial Instruments.












Raw Materials



We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials. We have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers.

We employ a supply-chain management strategy in our business segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. Due to regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical raw materials. This strategy increases the risk that our supply chain may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem. These risks are managed, where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production.



Intellectual Property Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We own or license numerous patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and in other countries that relate to various aspects of our products. In addition, key value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. Our patents and other proprietary rights have been useful in establishing our market share and in the growth of our business, and are expected to continue to be of value in the future as we continue to develop proprietary products. Although important in the aggregate, we do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any individual patent or license.

We also rely on trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and continuing technological innovations, as well as in-licensing opportunities, to maintain and further develop our competitive position, particularly in the area of formulation development and tooling design.



Seasonality

Although our Packaging Systems business is not inherently seasonal, sales and operating profit in the second half of the year are typically lower than the first half primarily due to scheduled plant shutdowns in conjunction with our customers' production schedules and the year-end impact of holidays on production.

Working Capital

We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. In addition, some of our supply agreements require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. Levels of inventory are also influenced by the seasonal patterns addressed above. For a more detailed discussion of working capital, please see the discussion inManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsunder the captionFinancial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Marketing

Our Packaging Systems customers include practically every major branded pharmaceutical, generic and biopharmaceutical company in the world. Packaging Systems components and other products are sold to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital supply/medical device companies, which incorporate them into their products for distribution to the ultimate end-user.

Our Delivery Systems segment sells to many of the world's largest pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies and to large customers within the personal care and food-and-beverage industries. Delivery Systems components generally are incorporated into our customers' manufacturing lines for further processing or assembly.

Our products and services are distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution network, with limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors.

Our ten largest customers accounted for 40.4% of our consolidated net sales in 2012, but none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of net sales.












Order Backlog



At December 31, 2012, our order backlog was $354.0 million, all of which is expected to be filled during 2013. The order backlog was $289.8 million at the end of 2011. The increase is primarily due to a lengthening of the average lead-time for sales orders, as well as sales growth for higher value products. Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to their schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a number of our customers. Products covered by these contracts are included in our backlog only as orders are received.

Competition

We compete with several companies across our Packaging Systems product lines. However, we believe that we supply a major portion of the U.S. market for pharmaceutical elastomer and metal packaging components and also have a significant share of the European market for these components. Because of the special nature of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing participation in the market, competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their operations.

We differentiate ourselves from our competition as a "full-service, value-added" global supplier that can provide pre-sale formula and engineering development, analytical services, regulatory expertise and post-manufacturing technologies, as well as after-sale technical support. Customers also appreciate the global scope of West's manufacturing capability and our ability to produce many products at multiple sites.

Our Delivery Systems business competes in very competitive markets for both healthcare and consumer products. The markets we serve are also served by many competitors and, therefore, our market shares are generally less than 5% of the total global markets. The competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global molders that command significant market shares. There are extreme cost pressures and many of our customers look off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate ourselves by leveraging our global capability and by employing new technologies such as high-speed automated assembly, insert-molding, multi-shot molding and expertise with multiple-piece closure systems.



Because of the more demanding regulatory requirements in the medical device component area, there are a smaller number of competitors, mostly large-scale companies. We compete for this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in engineering and project management, diverse contract manufacturing capabilities and knowledge of and experience in complying with FDA requirements. With our range of proprietary technologies, we compete with new and established companies in the area of drug delivery devices, including suppliers of prefillable syringes, auto-injectors, safety needles and other proprietary systems.

Research and Development Activities



We maintain our own research-scale production facilities and laboratories for developing new products, and offer contract engineering design and development services to assist customers with new product development. Our quality control, regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities are used to ensure compliance with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary and secondary pharmaceutical packaging components. The engineering departments are responsible for product and tooling design and testing, and for the design and construction of processing equipment. We continue to seek new innovative opportunities for acquisition, licensing, partnering or development within injectable packaging and delivery systems, most of which will be manufactured and marketed by our Delivery Systems segment. Research and development spending will continue to increase as we pursue innovative strategic platforms in prefillable syringe, injectable container, advanced injection and safety and administration systems.

Commercial development of our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used in packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to both customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer's products following our development period.



We spent $12.7 million in 2012, $11.6 million in 2011 and $9.8 million in 2010 on research and development for the Packaging Systems segment. The Delivery Systems segment incurred research and development costs of $20.5 million, $17.5 million, and $14.1 million in the years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.












Environmental Regulations



We are subject to various federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2012 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in 2013.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 6,700 people in our operations throughout the world.





