ITEM 1.BUSINESS.





General



West
Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (which may be referred to asWest, theCompany,we,usorour) is a manufacturer of
components and systems for injectable drug delivery and plastic packaging, as
well as delivery system components for the pharmaceutical, healthcare and
consumer products industries. Our products include stoppers and seals for vials,
closures and components used in syringe, intravenous and blood collection
systems, prefillable syringe components, and safety and administration systems.
Our customers include the leading global producers and distributors of
pharmaceuticals, biologics, medical devices and personal care products. The
Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on
July 27, 1923.



All
trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., unless noted otherwise. Exubera® is a
registered trademark of Pfizer, Inc. Teflon® is a registered trademark of E.I.
DuPont de Nemours and Company. Crystal Zenith® is a registered trademark of
Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



Acquisition



On July
6, 2009, we acquired certain business assets of Plastef Investissements SA
(“Plastef”), a France-based developer and manufacturer of drug delivery devices.
For additional details regarding this acquisition, see Note 2,Acquisition, to our
consolidated financial statements.



West Website



West
maintains a website atwww.westpharma.com.  Our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our
website under theInvestors –
SEC Filingscaption as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also available to the public over
the Internet at the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. You may also
read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F.
Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference
Room.



Throughout
this Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from parts of
other documents filed with the SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2010
Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2010 Proxy Statement”), which will be filed
with the SEC within 120 days following the end of our 2009 fiscal
year.  Our 2010 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or
about March 31, 2010, under the captionInvestors — Proxy
Materials.



Information
about our corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles
and Code of Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board
Committees, Committee Charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board is
available on our website under theInvestors — CorporateGovernancecaption.  Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical Services
Dividend Reinvestment Plan is also available on our website under theInvestors — Dividend Reinvestment
Programcaption.  We will provide any of the foregoing
information without charge upon written request to John R. Gailey III, Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.,
101 Gordon Drive, Lionville, PA 19341.








BusinessSegments



During
the years presented, our business was conducted through two reportable segments:
Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group.  Comparative segment revenues
and related financial information for 2009, 2008 and 2007 are presented in a
table contained in Note 6,Segment Information,to our consolidated financial statements and are
discussed withinResults of
Operationsin theManagement’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operationssection of this 2009
Form 10-K. Intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation.



Pharmaceutical SystemsSegment



Our
Pharmaceutical Systems segment designs, manufactures and sells a variety of
packaging components and systems used in parenteral drug delivery for the
pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and generic industries.  The primary
components we manufacture are subject to regulatory oversight within our
customers’ manufacturing facilities.  We have manufacturing facilities
in North and South America, Europe and Asia Pacific, with affiliated companies
in Mexico and Japan.  See Item 2,Properties,for additional
information on our manufacturing sites.



Our
Pharmaceutical Systems segment consists of two operating segments — Americas and
Europe/Asia Pacific — which are aggregated for reporting purposes because they
have similar economic characteristics, as well as similar products,
manufacturing processes, customer objectives, distribution procedures and
regulatory requirements.



Our
Pharmaceutical Systems business is composed of the following product
lines:



Pharmaceutical
packaging



·Elastomeric
      stoppers and discs, which serve as primary closures for pharmaceutical
      vials.



·Secondary
      closures for pharmaceutical vials called Flip-Off® aluminum seals,
      consisting of an aluminum seal and a removable plastic button, and in some
      applications, just an aluminum
seal.



·Elastomeric
      plungers, needle shields and tip caps to fit most standard prefilled
      syringes and combination seals for dental cartridges and pen delivery
      systems.



·Pharmaceutical
      containers, closures and dispensers, including the West Ready Pack™
      system.



·Enhanced
      component processing: NovaPure™, Envision™, VeriSure™, Westar® RS
      (ready-to-sterilize) and Westar® RU
  (ready-to-use).



·Daikyo
      Crystal Zenith® RU prefillable syringe
system.



Disposable medical
components



·Elastomeric
      components for blood collection systems, as well as flashback bulbs and
      sleeve stoppers for intravenous dispensing
  systems.



·Elastomer
      and co-molded elastomer/plastic components for infusion and intravenous
      systems.



·Non-filled
      syringe components.



·Dropper
      bulbs for applications such as eye, ear and nasal drops, diagnostic
      products and dispensing systems.



Safety and administration
systems



·Sterile
      devices for the reconstitution, transfer and administration of drug
      products, including patented products such as the Mixject™, Mix2Vial™ and
      vial adapters.






·NovaGuard™
      passive safety needle system.



Laboratory and other
services



·Extractables
      and leachables testing, package/container testing, method
      development/validation, stability testing, process development and problem
      resolution.



Sales of
pharmaceutical packaging components represented approximately 60%, 59% and 57%
of consolidated net sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Disposable
medical components sales, as a percent of consolidated net sales, were 10%, 10%
and 12% for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Products
and services recently brought to market are the Daikyo Crystal Zenith luer lock
syringe, Envisionand the West Ready Pack system. The Daikyo Crystal Zenith
syringe is the market’s first silicone-free, ready-to-use prefillable syringe
that offers pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies a total system
solution that can mitigate the risks associated with glass syringes. Crystal
Zenith technology is licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. West’s Envision components
(plungers and stoppers) are inspected by an automated vision inspection system
to ensure they meet enhanced quality specifications for visible and subvisible
particulate and contamination. The West Ready Pack system is a one-source
solution ideal for pharmaceutical research and development and clinical work.
Each system comes with West stoppers, Flip-Off seals and vials conveniently
packaged in small volumes. Because the components are delivered ready-to-use,
component preparation is eliminated from the customer’s processing, saving them
time and money.



Our
tamper-evident Flip-Off seals consist of a metal overseal and a molded plastic
cap that is removed in order to permit needle access to the drug-vial
contents.  These are sold in a wide range of sizes and colors to meet
customers’ needs for product identification and differentiation. The seals can
be provided using proprietary printing and embossing technology for multiple
layers of protection, such as point-of-use instructions, item-level information
such as vial contents, drug dosage and strength, and cautionary statements that
can serve as counterfeiting deterrence.



Elastomeric
components are offered in a variety of standard and customer-specific
configurations and formulations and are available with advanced barrier films
and coatings to enhance their performance. West FluroTec® coating is a film that
is applied using a patented molding process to reduce the risk of product loss
by contamination, enhance seal integrity and protect the shelf life of packaged
drugs. We also apply a Teflon® coating to the surface of stoppers and plungers
to improve compatibility between the closure and the drug. B2-Coating is a
coating applied to the surface of stoppers and plungers using a patented process
that eliminates the need for conventional silicone application. It helps
manufacturers reduce product rejections due to trace levels of silicone
molecules found in non-coated packaged drug compounds. FluroTec and B2-Coating
technologies are licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



Our
VeriSure components are an example of how laboratory services can be combined
with a product offering. These components allow pharmaceutical and
biopharmaceutical companies to navigate the complex task of extractables
identification and the related analysis for qualifying a drug product’s
container/closure system more efficiently. The customer will receive a
Certificate of Analysis with each shipment of components. Also, with a known
extractables profile, customers can begin the design of leachables studies on a
quicker basis, a process which our analytical laboratory services can
support.



In
addition, our post-manufacturing processes, Westar RS and Westar RU, are
documented and fully validated procedures for washing and siliconizing stoppers
and syringe components to remove biological materials and endotoxins. Westar RS
prepares components for introduction into the customer’s sterilizer and Westar
RU provides sterilized components. The Westar processes increase the overall
efficiency of injectable drug production by outsourcing component processing,
thereby eliminating steps otherwise required in each of our customers’
manufacturing processes, and assure compliance with the latest regulatory
requirements for component preparation.








Medimop
Medical Projects, Ltd. (“Medimop”), one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, is a
leader in the world market for transfer, mixing and administration systems for
injectable pharmaceuticals. Many injectable drug products are produced as
freeze-dried powders in order to preserve product efficacy during shipment and
storage. These products must be reconstituted, typically by diluting the powder
with sterile water or other diluent at the point of use.  All Medimop
products marketed in the United States are cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). In addition, many Medimop products are protected by
patents.



As an
adjunct to our Pharmaceutical Systems products, we offer contract analytical
laboratory services for testing and evaluating primary drug packaging components
and their compatibility with the contained drug formulation. West Analytical
Services provides us and our customers with in-depth knowledge and analysis of
the interaction and compatibility of drug products with elastomer, glass and
plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories also provide
specialized testing for complete drug delivery systems.



TechGroup Segment



Our Tech
Group segment is a global custom injection molder with over 40 years of
experience, offering contract manufacturing solutions for the healthcare and
consumer industries. This segment has manufacturing operations in the U.S.,
Puerto Rico and Ireland.  See Item 2,Properties, for additional
information on our manufacturing sites.



Our Tech
Group segment consists of two operating segments — Americas and Europe — which
are aggregated for reporting purposes because they have similar economic
characteristics, as well as similar products, manufacturing processes, customer
objectives, distribution procedures and regulatory requirements.



The Tech
Group is committed to producing the highest quality injection molded components
and devices, which include unique components for surgical, ophthalmic,
diagnostic and drug delivery systems, such as contact lens storage kits, pill
dispensers and disposable blood collection systems, as well as various personal
care and consumer products. The Tech Group’s record of success includes
manufacturing and assembly of systems and devices used for nasal, oral,
pulmonary and injectable delivery of drugs used to treat diseases affecting
people around the world.



Sales of
healthcare devices represent approximately 17%, 16% and 18% of consolidated net
sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



The Tech
Group segment also has expertise in product design and development, including
in-house mold design and construction, an engineering center for developmental
and prototype tooling, process design and validation and high-speed automated
assemblies.  Technologies include multi-component molding, in-mold
labeling, ultrasonic welding and clean room molding and device
assembly.



Our
ConfiDose® auto-injector system enhances patient compliance and safety. With
ConfiDose, the needle remains shielded at all times and retracts automatically
after the injection. The system eliminates preparation steps and automates the
injection of drugs, providing patients with a sterile, single-use disposable
system that can be readily used at home. The Tech Group segment is responsible
for manufacturing and assembling commercial quantities of this
system.



2010Business Operations Realignment



On
December 15, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a realignment of our business
operations into two new divisions, “Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems” and
“Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems,” effective January 1, 2010. Pharmaceutical
Packaging Systems will focus on primary container solutions, including
components for drug packaging and prefillable syringe systems. The division will
consist of our core pharmaceutical packaging products, disposable medical
components, and laboratory and other services. The growth strategy for the
Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems division includes organic growth through market
segmentation, new-product innovation, strategic acquisitions and geographic
expansion.








The
Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems division will focus on safety and administration
systems and multi-component systems for drug administration. It will consist of
the injection-molding and assembly business from the current Tech Group segment,
advanced injection systems and other innovation-related products and businesses.
We intend to pursue growth in the Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems division
through the development and commercialization of proprietary multi-component
systems for injectable drug administration and other healthcare
applications.



RestructuringInitiatives



In
December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan for the Tech
Group in an effort to align our plant capacity and workforce with the revised
business outlook and longer-term strategy of focusing the business on
proprietary products. As part of this plan, we implemented a series of
initiatives to reduce operating costs and increase the manufacturing efficiency
of the segment. We incurred a total of $7.5 million in restructuring and related
charges, as part of this plan, through its completion in June 2009.



In
November 2009, we announced restructuring plans for certain business operations
and support functions affecting both of our reporting segments. The
Pharmaceutical Systems plan involves exiting certain specialized laboratory
service offerings due to a change in market demand, reducing support personnel
primarily associated with information technology applications and discontinuing
other non-core initiatives and disposing of the associated assets. The Tech
Group plan is intended to better align our available production capacity with
expected levels of contract manufacturing activity by consolidating
manufacturing operations and support functions. We expect to incur approximately
$9.0 million in restructuring charges and eliminate an estimated 100 positions
as part of these plans. During 2009, Pharmaceutical Systems incurred actual
charges of $7.0 million and Tech Group incurred charges of $0.6 million, with
the balance expected to be incurred through 2010 as the associated activities
are completed. For additional details, see Note 4,Restructuring and Other
Items, to our consolidated financial statements.



International



We have
significant operations outside the U.S.  They are managed through the
same business segments as our U.S. operations – Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech
Group.  Sales outside of the U.S. account for approximately 52% of
consolidated net sales. For a geographic breakdown of sales, see the table in
Note 6,Segment
Information,to the consolidated financial statements.



Although
the general business processes are similar to the domestic business,
international operations are exposed to additional risks.  These risks
include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar, multiple tax
jurisdictions and, particularly in Latin and South America and Israel, political
and social issues that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for
our products.



Depending
on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values
can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results
of operations.  See the discussion under the captionSummary of Significant Accounting
Policies - Foreign Currency Translationin Note 1 to our consolidated
financial statements. We also have exposure to the impact of changes in currency
exchange rates on assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the
functional currency of the respective subsidiary. We attempt to minimize some of
our exposure to these exchange rate fluctuations through the use of forward
exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt.  This
activity is generally discussed in Note 1 under the captionSummary of Significant Accounting
Policies – Financial Instrumentsand in Note 14,Derivative Financial
Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements in this 2009 Form
10-K.



RawMaterials



We use
three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers,
aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials.
We have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our
production needs through agreements with suppliers.








We employ
a supply-chain management strategy in our reporting segments, which involves
purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply.
This strategy has reduced the number of our raw material suppliers. Due to
regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time involved
in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical
raw materials. This strategy increases the risk that our supply lines may be
interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem. These risks are
managed, where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing
sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods
of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production, and therefore we
foresee no significant availability problems in the near future.



IntellectualProperty Rights



Patents
and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We own or license
numerous patents and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and in other
countries that relate to various aspects of our products. In addition, key
value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from our
Japanese affiliate, Daikyo Seiko Ltd. Our patents and other proprietary rights
have been useful in establishing our market share and in the growth of our
business, and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, as we
continue to develop proprietary products. Although important in the aggregate,
we do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any individual
patent.



We also
rely heavily on trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and continuing
technological innovations, as well as in-licensing opportunities, to maintain
and further develop our competitive position, particularly in the area of
formulation development and tooling design.



Seasonality



Although
our Pharmaceutical Systems business is not inherently seasonal, sales and
operating profit in the second half of the year are typically lower than the
first half primarily due to scheduled plant shutdowns in conjunction with our
customers’ production schedules and the year-end impact of holidays on
production. During the shutdown periods, maintenance procedures are performed
and vacations are taken by production employees.



WorkingCapital



We are
required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer
requirements. Other agreements also require us to purchase inventory in bulk
orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply
interruption. Levels of inventory are also influenced by the seasonal patterns
addressed above. For a more detailed discussion of working capital, please see
the discussion inManagement’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsunder the captionFinancial Condition, Liquidity and
Capital Resources.



Marketing



Our
Pharmaceutical Systems customers include practically every major branded
pharmaceutical, generic and biopharmaceutical company in the world.
Pharmaceutical Systems components and other products are sold to major
pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital supply/medical device companies,
which incorporate them into their products for distribution to the ultimate
end-user.



With
extensive experience in contract manufacturing, our Tech Group segment sells to
many of the world’s largest medical device and pharmaceutical companies and to
large customers in the personal care and food-and-beverage industries. Tech
Group components generally are incorporated into our customers’ manufacturing
lines for further processing or assembly. West’s products and services are
distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution network, with
limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors.



Our ten
largest customers accounted for 38.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2009, but
not one of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of net
sales.






OrderBacklog



At
December 31, 2009, our order backlog was $238.7 million, most of which is
expected to be filled during fiscal year 2010. The order backlog was $230.1
million at the end of 2008. The increase is primarily due to foreign currency
translation. Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for
manufacture over a period of time according to their schedule or upon
confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a
number of our customers, and products covered by these contracts are included in
our backlog only as orders are received.



Competition



We
compete with several companies across our Pharmaceutical Systems product lines.
However, we believe that we supply a major portion of the U.S. market for
pharmaceutical elastomer and metal packaging components and have a significant
share of the European market for these components. Because of the special nature
of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing participation
in the market, competition is based primarily on product design and performance,
although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical
companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their
operations.



We
differentiate ourselves from our competition as a "full-service, value-added"
global supplier that can provide pre-sale formula and engineering development,
analytical services, regulatory expertise and post-manufacturing technologies,
as well as after-sale technical support. Customers also appreciate the global
scope of West’s manufacturing capability and our ability to produce many
products at multiple sites.



Our Tech
Group business is in very competitive markets for both healthcare and consumer
products. The competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global
molders that command significant market shares. There are extreme cost pressures
and many of our customers look off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate
ourselves by leveraging our global capability and by employing new technologies
such as high-speed automated assembly, insert-molding, multi-shot molding and
expertise with multiple-piece closure systems. Because of the more demanding
regulatory requirements in the medical device component area, there are a
smaller number of other competitors, mostly large-scale companies. We compete
for this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in
engineering and project management, diverse contract manufacturing capabilities
and knowledge of and experience in complying with FDA requirements.



Researchand Development Activities



We
maintain our own research-scale production facilities and laboratories for
developing new products and offer contract engineering design and development
services to assist customers with new product development. Our quality control,
regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities are used to ensure compliance
with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary and secondary
pharmaceutical packaging components. The engineering departments are responsible
for product and tooling design and testing, and for the design and construction
of processing equipment. The primary responsibility of our innovation group is
seeking new opportunities in injectable packaging and delivery systems, most of
which will be manufactured by our Tech Group segment and marketed by our
Pharmaceutical Systems segment. Research and development spending will continue
to increase as we pursue innovative strategic platforms in prefillable syringe,
injectable container, advanced injection and safety and administration
systems.



We spent
$18.0 million in 2009, $17.2 million in 2008 and $14.0 million in 2007 on
research and development for the Pharmaceutical Systems segment. The Tech Group
segment incurred research and development expenses of $1.9 million, $1.5
million, and $2.1 million in the years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.



Commercial
development of our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical
applications commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may
require separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to
be used in packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to
both customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the
customer’s products following our development period.






EnvironmentalRegulations



We are
subject to various federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge
of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a
material impact on our financial position or results of operations. There were
no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in fiscal
year 2009 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in
fiscal year 2010.



Employees



As of
December 31, 2009, we employed 6,408 people in our operations throughout the
world.



