ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.





General



West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (which may be referred to asWest, theCompany,we,usorour) is a manufacturer of components and systems for the packaging and delivery of injectable drugs as well as delivery system components for the pharmaceutical, healthcare and consumer products industries. Our products include stoppers and seals for vials, prefillable syringe components and systems, components for intravenous and blood collection systems, safety and administration systems, advanced injection systems, and contract design and manufacturing services. Ou
r customers include the leading global producers and distributors of pharmaceuticals, biologics, medical devices and personal care products. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923.



All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., either directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries unless noted otherwise. Teflon® is a registered trademark of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company. Crystal Zenith® is a registered trademark of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



Acquisitions



In July 2010, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of La Model Ltd., a developer of an electronic patch injector system using pre-filled cartridge technology.



In July 2009, we acquired the éris™ safety syringe system and other intellectual property and business assets from Plastef Investissements SA, a developer and manufacturer of safety systems.



For additional details regarding these acquisitions, see Note 2,Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements.



West Website



West maintains a website atwww.westpharma.com.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website under theInvestors – SEC Filingscaption as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also available tothe public over the Internet at the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room.



Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2011 Proxy Statement”), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of our 2010 fiscal year.  Our 2011 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 31, 2011, under the captionInvestors — Proxy Materials.



Information about our corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees, Committee Charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board is available on our website under theInvestors — CorporateGovernancecaption.  Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical Services Dividend ReinvestmentPlan is also available on our website under theInvestors — Dividend Reinvestment Programcaption.





We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to John R. Gailey III, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., 101 Gordon Drive, Lionville, PA 19341.



Business Segments



Effective January 1, 2010, our business operations were reorganized into two new divisions, Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems (“Packaging Systems”) and Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems (“Delivery Systems”), in order to better align our business units with the underlying markets and customers they serve. All historical periods have been restated for the changes to our segment reporting structure. Comparative segment revenues and related financial information for 2010, 2009 and 2008 are presented in a table contained in Note 5,Segment Information,to our consolidatedfinancial statements and are discussed withinResults of Operationsi
n theManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationssection of this 2010 Form 10-K.



Packaging Systems Segment



Our Packaging Systems segment designs, manufactures and sells a variety of packaging components and systems used in injectable drug delivery for the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries.  The growth strategy for Packaging Systems includes organic growth through market segmentation, new-product innovation, strategic acquisitions and geographic expansion. The primary components we manufacture are subject to regulatory oversight within our customers’ manufacturing facilities.  We have manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia, with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan.  See Item 2,Properties,for additional information on our manufacturing and oth
er sites.



Our Packaging Systems segment consists of three operating segments — Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific — which are aggregated for reporting purposes.



The Packaging Systems business is composed of the following product lines:



Pharmaceutical packaging



·Elastomeric stoppers and discs, which serve as primary closures for pharmaceutical vials.



·Secondary closures for pharmaceutical vials called Flip-Off® seals, consisting of an aluminum seal and a removable plastic button that is removed to permit needle access to the vial contents.



·Elastomeric plungers, needle shields and tip caps to fit most standard prefilled syringes and combination seals for dental cartridges and pen delivery systems.



·Pharmaceutical containers, closures and dispensers, including the West Ready Pack™ system.



·Enhanced component processing: NovaPure™, Envision™, VeriSure™, Westar® RS (ready-to-sterilize) and Westar® RU (ready-to-use).



Disposable medical components



·Elastomeric components for blood collection systems, as well as flashback bulbs and sleeve stoppers for intravenous dispensing systems.



·Elastomer and co-molded elastomer/plastic components for infusion and intravenous systems.



·Non-filled syringe components.



·Dropper bulbs for applications such as eye, ear and nasal drops, diagnostic products and dispensing systems.





Laboratory and other services



·Extractables and leachables testing, package/container testing, method development/validation, stability testing, process development and problem resolution.



Sales of pharmaceutical packaging components represented approximately 60%, 60% and 59% of consolidated net sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Disposable medical components sales, as a percent of consolidated net sales, were 9%, 10% and 10% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Our tamper-evident Flip-Off seals are sold in a wide range of sizes and colors to meet customers’ needs for product identification and differentiation. The seals can be provided using proprietary printing and embossing technology for multiple layers of protection, such as point-of-use instructions, item-level information such as vial contents, drug dosage and strength, and cautionary statements that can serve as counterfeiting deterrence.



Elastomeric components are offered in a variety of standard and customer-specific configurations and formulations and are available with advanced barrier films and coatings to enhance their performance. West FluroTec® coating is a film that is applied using a patented molding process to reduce the risk of product loss by contamination, enhance seal integrity and protect the shelf life of packaged drugs. We also apply a Teflon® coating to the surface of stoppers and plungers to improve compatibility between the closure and the drug. B2-Coating is a coating applied to the surface of stoppers and plungers using a patented process that eliminates the need for conventional silicone application. It helps manufacturers reduce product rejections due to trace levels of silicone molecules found in non-coated packaged drug compounds. Fluro
Tec and B2-Coating technologies are licensed from our Japanese partner, Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.



The West Ready Pack system is a one-source solution ideal for pharmaceutical research and development and clinical work. Each system comes with West stoppers, Flip-Off seals and vials conveniently packaged in small volumes. Because the components are delivered ready-to-use, component preparation is eliminated from our customers’ processing, saving them time and money.



West’s Envision components (plungers and stoppers) are inspected by an automated vision inspection system to ensure they meet enhanced quality specifications for visible and subvisible particulate and contamination.



Our VeriSure components are an example of how laboratory services can be combined with a product offering. These components allow pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies to navigate the complex task of extractables identification and the related analysis for qualifying a drug product’s container/closure system more efficiently. The customer receives a Certificate of Analysis with each shipment of components. Also, with a known extractables profile, customers are able to begin the design of leachables studies on a quicker basis.



In addition, our post-manufacturing processes, Westar RS and Westar RU, are documented and fully validated procedures for washing and siliconizing stoppers and syringe components to remove biological materials and endotoxins. Westar RS prepares components for introduction into the customer’s sterilizer and Westar RU provides sterilized components. The Westar processes increase the overall efficiency of injectable drug production by outsourcing component processing, thereby eliminating steps otherwise required in each of our customers’ manufacturing processes, and help to assure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements for component preparation.



As an adjunct to our Packaging Systems products, we offer contract analytical laboratory services for testing and evaluating primary drug-packaging components and their compatibility with the contained drug formulation. West Analytical Services provides us and our customers with in-depth knowledge and analysis of the interaction and compatibility of drug products with elastomer, glass and plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories also provide specialized testing for complete drug delivery systems.







Delivery Systems Segment



Our Delivery Systems segment provides innovative solutions for injectable drug delivery to major pharmaceutical and biotech customers. This segment combines global contract manufacturing solution capabilities with various proprietary technologies, such as Daikyo Crystal Zenith® (“CZ”), ConfiDose® and NovaGuard™, which are discussed below in further detail. As part of its innovation initiative, the Delivery Systems segment has acquired various companies and technologies since 2005 including the Tech Group (Custom contract manufacturing); Medimop and La Model Ltd. (Administration systems); and ConfiDose and éris (Advanced injection systems).



We intend to pursue growth in Delivery Systems through the development and commercialization of proprietary multi-component systems for injectable drug administration and other healthcare applications. This segment has manufacturing operations in North America and Europe. See Item 2,Properties, for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites.



Our Delivery Systems segment consists of two operating segments — Americas and International — which are aggregated for reporting purposes.



The Delivery Systems business is composed of the following product lines:



Healthcare devices



·Daikyo CZ ready-to-use prefilled syringe system, including luer lock and insert needle options.



·Daikyo CZ sterile vials, in a range of sizes, as well as storage containers for bulk drug product and custom drug containers.



·Contract manufacturing and assembly of injection molded components and devices for surgical, ophthalmic, diagnostic and drug delivery systems.



Administration systems



·Sterile devices for the reconstitution, transfer and administration of drug products, including patented products such as the Mixject™, Mix2Vial™ and vial adapters.



·Electronic patch injector system, designed for subcutaneous delivery of higher volumes of biologic drugs.



Advanced injection systems



·NovaGuard passive safety needle system.



·ConfiDose disposable auto-injector system.



·The éris safety system for prefilled syringes.



Consumer products



·Contract manufacturing of various personal care and consumer products, including infant nurser assemblies, closures for beverage containers, child-resistant and tamper-evident closures and dispensers, etc.



The Delivery Systems segment also has expertise in product design and development, including in-house mold design and construction, an engineering center for developmental and prototype tooling, process design and validation and high-speed automated assemblies.  Technologies include multi-component molding, in-mold labeling, ultrasonic welding and clean room molding and device assembly.





Sales of healthcare devices represented approximately 16% of consolidated net sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Personal and consumer product sales, as a percent of consolidated net sales, were 6%, 5% and 7% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Products recently brought to market are the Daikyo CZ 1ml long Insert Needle syringe and the ConfiDose auto-injector systems. In addition, the recently acquired Electronic Patch Injector system was introduced during 2010 and is under evaluation by many biopharmaceutical companies. The Daikyo CZ 1ml long Insert Needle syringe system is the market’s first syringe system without silicone oil lubrication and incorporating an insert-molded needle to avoid the need for adhesive. The luer lock version of the Daikyo CZ syringe system was introduced previously, along with several sizes of sterile vials. Additional sizes of vials continue to be introduced. CZ technology is licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. Our ConfiDose auto-injector system enhances patient compliance and safety. With ConfiDose, the needle remains shielded at all times and ret
racts automatically after the injection. The system eliminates preparation steps and automates the injection of drugs, providing patients with a sterile, single-use disposable system that can be readily used at home.



Restructuring Initiatives



In December 2010, our Board of Directors approved a plan to reduce our cost structure and improve operating efficiency by consolidating certain operations and eliminating a limited number of operational and administrative positions. This plan affects employees and manufacturing facilities within both of our reporting segments and involves the closure of a plant in Montgomery, Pennsylvania, and a reduction in operations at a manufacturing facility in St. Austell, England. We expect to incur approximately $19.0 million to $21.0 million in restructuring charges through the end of 2012 as the work at those plants is moved to other facilities. Restructuring activities will also result in the elimination of approximately 50 administrative, engineering and other operating positions at additional locations. A total of approximately 367 positions 
will be eliminated as part of this plan. During 2010, we incurred actual charges of $14.5 million as part of this plan, consisting of $10.1 million in severance and employee benefits and $4.4 million in asset impairment charges.



In November 2009, we announced restructuring plans for certain business operations and support functions affecting both of our reporting segments. The Packaging Systems plan involved exiting certain specialized laboratory service offerings due to a change in market demand, reducing support personnel primarily associated with information technology applications and discontinuing other non-core initiatives and disposing of the associated assets. The Delivery Systems plan was intended to better align our available production capacity with expected levels of contract manufacturing activity by consolidating manufacturing operations and support functions. Total charges incurred during 2009 and 2010 as part of this program were $9.0 million, which consisted of $3.4 million in employee severance benefits and asset relocation costs, and $5.6 milli
on in asset impairment and disposal charges, primarily related to removing certain laboratory equipment and plant assets from service.



For additional details regarding these programs, see Note 3,Restructuring and Other Items, to our consolidated financial statements.



International



We have significant operations outside of the United States (“U.S.”).  They are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations – Packaging Systems and Delivery Systems.  Sales outside of the U.S. account for approximately 52% of consolidated net sales. For a geographic breakdown of sales, see the table in Note 5,Segment Information,to the consolidated financial statements.



Although the general business processes are similar to the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks.  These risks include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar, multiple tax jurisdictions and, particularly in South America and Israel, political and social issues that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products.







Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations.  See the discussion under the captionSummary of Significant Accounting Policies - Foreign Currency Translationin Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. We also have exposure to the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary. We attempt to minimize some of our exposure to these exchange rate fluctuations through the use of forward exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt.  This hedging activity is generally discussed in Note 1 under the captionSummary of Significant Accounting Policies – Financial Instrumentsand in Note 12,Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements.



Raw Materials



We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials. We have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers.



We employ a supply-chain management strategy in our business segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. Due to regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical raw materials. This strategy increases the risk that our supply chain may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem. These risks are managed, where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production, and therefore we foresee no significant availability problems in the near future.



Intellectual Property Rights



Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We own or license numerous patents and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and in other countries that relate to various aspects of our products. In addition, key value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. Our patents and other proprietary rights have been useful in establishing our market share and in the growth of our business, and are expected to continue to be of value in the future as we continue to develop proprietary products. Although important in the aggregate, we do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any individual patent or license.



We also rely heavily on trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and continuing technological innovations, as well as in-licensing opportunities, to maintain and further develop our competitive position, particularly in the area of formulation development and tooling design.



Seasonality



Although our Packaging Systems business is not inherently seasonal, sales and operating profit in the second half of the year are typically lower than the first half primarily due to scheduled plant shutdowns in conjunction with our customers’ production schedules and the year-end impact of holidays on production.



Working Capital



We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. In addition, some of our supply agreements require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. Levels of inventory are also influenced by the seasonal patterns addressed above. For a more detailed discussion of working capital, please see the discussion inManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsunder the captionFinancial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.







Marketing



Our Packaging Systems customers include practically every major branded pharmaceutical, generic and biopharmaceutical company in the world. Packaging Systems components and other products are sold to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital supply/medical device companies, which incorporate them into their products for distribution to the ultimate end-user.



Our Delivery Systems segment sells to many of the world’s largest pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies and to large customers within the personal care and food-and-beverage industries. Delivery Systems components generally are incorporated into our customers’ manufacturing lines for further processing or assembly.



West’s products and services are distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution network, with limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors.



Our ten largest customers accounted for 41.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2010, but none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of net sales.



Order Backlog



At December 31, 2010, our order backlog was $250.6 million, all of which is expected to be filled during 2011. The order backlog was $238.7 million at the end of 2009. The increase is primarily due to the timing of shipments, as some of our customers focused on reducing their year-end working capital, and strengthening demand for our advanced packaging products. Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to their schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a number of our customers. Products covered by these contracts are included in our backlog only as orders are received.



Competition



We compete with several companies across our Packaging Systems product lines. However, we believe that we supply a major portion of the U.S. market for pharmaceutical elastomer and metal packaging components and have a significant share of the European market for these components. Because of the special nature of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing participation in the market, competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their operations.



We differentiate ourselves from our competition as a "full-service, value-added" global supplier that can provide pre-sale formula and engineering development, analytical services, regulatory expertise and post-manufacturing technologies, as well as after-sale technical support. Customers also appreciate the global scope of West’s manufacturing capability and our ability to produce many products at multiple sites.



Our Delivery Systems business competes in very competitive markets for both healthcare and consumer products. The competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global molders that command significant market shares. There are extreme cost pressures and many of our customers look off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate ourselves by leveraging our global capability and by employing new technologies such as high-speed automated assembly, insert-molding, multi-shot molding and expertise with multiple-piece closure systems.



Because of the more demanding regulatory requirements in the medical device component area, there are a smaller number of competitors, mostly large-scale companies. We compete for this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in engineering and project management, diverse contract manufacturing capabilities and knowledge of and experience in complying with FDA requirements. With our range of proprietary technologies, we compete with new and established companies in the area of drug delivery devices, including suppliers of prefillable syringes, auto-injectors, safety needles and other proprietary systems.







Research and Development Activities



We maintain our own research-scale production facilities and laboratories for developing new products, and offer contract engineering design and development services to assist customers with new product development. Our quality control, regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities are used to ensure compliance with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary and secondary pharmaceutical packaging components. The engineering departments are responsible for product and tooling design and testing, and for the design and construction of processing equipment. We continue to seek new innovative opportunities for acquisition, licensing, partnering or development within injectable packaging and delivery systems, most of which will be manufactured and marketed by our Delivery Systems segment. Research and development spending w
ill continue to increase as we pursue innovative strategic platforms in prefillable syringe, injectable container, advanced injection and safety and administration systems.



Commercial development of our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used in packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to both customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer’s products following our development period.



We spent $9.8 million in 2010, $9.0 million in 2009 and $8.6 million in 2008 on research and development for the Packaging Systems segment. Delivery Systems incurred research and development expenses of $14.1 million, $10.9 million, and $10.1 million in the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Environmental Regulations



We are subject to various federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2010 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes for 2011.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 6,600 people in our operations throughout the world.



