Item 1. Business



PPG Industries, Inc., incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883, is comprised of six reportable business segments: Performance Coatings,
Industrial Coatings, Architectural Coatings – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Optical and Specialty Materials, Commodity Chemicals and Glass. Each of the business segments in which PPG is engaged is highly competitive. However, the
diversification of product lines and worldwide markets served tend to minimize the impact on PPG’s total sales and earnings from changes in demand for a particular product line or in a particular geographic area. Refer to Note 25,
“Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to our reportable business segments.



Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings - EMEA

PPG is a major global supplier of protective and decorative coatings. The Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural
Coatings – EMEA reportable segments supply protective and decorative finishes for customers in a wide array of end use markets, including industrial equipment, appliances and packaging; factory-finished aluminum extrusions and steel and
aluminum coils; marine and aircraft equipment; automotive original equipment; and other industrial and consumer products. In addition to supplying finishes to the automotive original equipment market, PPG supplies refinishes to the automotive
aftermarket. PPG also supplies coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive and consists of a few large firms with global presence and many
smaller firms serving local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world’s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many smaller regional coatings companies. Product development,
innovation, quality and technical and customer service have been stressed by PPG and have been significant factors in developing an important supplier position by PPG’s coatings businesses comprising the Performance Coatings, Industrial
Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments.



On January 2, 2008, PPG completed the acquisition of SigmaKalon Group (“SigmaKalon”), a worldwide coatings producer based in Uithoorn, Netherlands. The results of operations of SigmaKalon are
included in PPG’s consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date onward. The businesses acquired from SigmaKalon produce architectural, protective and marine and industrial coatings. The protective and marine and industrial
coatings businesses of SigmaKalon are managed as part of PPG’s previously existing coatings businesses. The SigmaKalon architectural coatings business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa was reported as a separate reportable business segment
known as Architectural Coatings – EMEA beginning in 2008. This business represented about 70% of SigmaKalon’s preacquisition sales.



The Performance Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the refinish, aerospace, protective and marine and architectural – Americas
and Asia Pacific coatings businesses.



The
refinish coatings business supplies coatings products for automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings for a wide array of markets and specialty coatings for signs. These products are sold primarily
through distributors.



The aerospace coatings
business supplies sealants, coatings, technical cleaners and transparencies for commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft and transparent armor for military land vehicles. PPG supplies products to aircraft manufacturers,
maintenance and aftermarket customers around the world both on a direct basis and through a company-owned distribution network.



The protective and marine coatings business supplies coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures to metal fabricators,
heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges, rail cars and shipping containers. These products are sold through the company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and directly to customers.



Product performance, technology, quality,
distribution and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in these three coatings businesses.



The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business primarily produces coatings used by painting and maintenance contractors and by
consumers for decoration and maintenance. These coatings are sold under a number of brands. Architectural coatings – Americas and Asia Pacific products are sold through a combination of company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers,
independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for the architectural coatings business. The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific
business operates about 400 company-owned stores in North America and about 50 company-owned stores in Australia.



The major global competitors of the Performance Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV, BASF Corporation, the DuPont Company, the
Sherwin-Williams Company and Valspar Corporation. The average number of persons employed by the Performance Coatings reportable segment during 2009 was 12,700.



2009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K5






The Industrial Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the automotive, industrial and packaging coatings businesses. Industrial, automotive
and packaging coatings are formulated specifically for the customers’ needs and application methods.



The industrial and automotive coatings businesses sell directly to a variety of manufacturing companies. PPG also supplies adhesives and
sealants for the automotive industry and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for industrial and automotive applications. PPG has established alliances with Kansai Paint, Helios Group and Asian Paints Ltd. to serve certain automotive original
equipment manufacturers in various regions of the world. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Kansai Finishes to serve Japanese-based automotive customers in North America and Europe. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Helios Ltd. to serve Russian-based
automotive customers in Russia and the Ukraine. PPG owns a 50% interest in Asian PPG Paints to serve global and domestic-based automotive customers in India.



The packaging coatings business supplies coatings and inks to the manufacturers of aerosol, food and beverage containers.



Product performance, technology, quality and technical and
customer service are major competitive factors in the industrial coatings businesses. The major global competitors of the Industrial Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV, BASF Corporation, the DuPont Company, Valspar Corporation and Nippon
Paint. The average number of persons employed by the Industrial Coatings reportable segment during 2009 was 8,900.



The Architectural Coatings – EMEA business supplies a variety of coatings under a number of brands and purchased sundries to painting
contractors and consumers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Architectural Coatings – EMEA products are sold through a combination of about 560 company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers, independent distributors and directly to
customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for this business. The major competitors of the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV and Materis
Paints. The average number of persons employed by the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment during 2009 was 8,500.



Optical and Specialty Materials

PPG’s Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment is comprised of the optical products and silicas
businesses. The primary Optical and Specialty Materials products areTransitions®lenses, sunlenses and
optical lens materials; amorphous precipitated silicas for tire, battery separator and other end-use markets; andTeslin®synthetic printing sheet used in such applications as waterproof labels, e-passports, drivers’ licenses and identification cards.Transitions®lenses are processed and distributed by PPG’s 51%-owned joint venture with Essilor International. In the
Optical and Specialty Materials businesses, product quality and performance, branding, distribution and technical service are the most critical competitive factors. The average number of persons employed by the Optical and Specialty Materials
reportable business segment during 2009 was 3,000.



Historically, the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment included the fine chemicals business. PPG sold the fine chemicals business in the fourth quarter of 2007. As such, the results of operations and cash flows of this
business have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 8 for further information.



Commodity Chemicals

PPG is a producer and supplier of basic chemicals. The Commodity Chemicals reportable segment produces chlor-alkali and derivative products
including chlorine, caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer, chlorinated solvents, calcium hypochlorite, ethylene dichloride, hydrochloric acid and phosgene derivatives. Most of these products are sold directly to manufacturing companies in the
chemical processing, rubber and plastics, paper, minerals, metals and water treatment industries. PPG competes with six other major producers of chlor-alkali products, including The Dow Chemical Company, Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A., Georgia
Gulf Corporation, Olin Corporation, Occidental Chemical Corporation and Shintech. Price, product availability, product quality and customer service are the key competitive factors. The average number of persons employed by the Commodity Chemicals
reportable business segment during 2009 was 2,000.



Glass

PPG is a producer of flat glass in North America and a global producer of
continuous-strand fiber glass. The Glass reportable business segment is comprised of the performance glazings and fiber glass businesses. PPG’s major markets are commercial and residential construction and the wind energy, energy
infrastructure, transportation and electronics industries. Most glass products are sold directly to manufacturing companies. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by the continuous-strand process.



The bases for competition in the Glass businesses are price,
quality, technology and customer service. The Company competes with four major producers of flat glass including Asahi Glass Company, Cardinal Glass Industries, Guardian Industries and NSG Pilkington, and six major producers of fiber glass
throughout the world, including Owens Corning-Vetrotex, Jushi Group, Johns



62009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






Manville Corporation, CPIC Fiberglass, AGY and Taishan Fiberglass. The average number of persons employed by the Glass reportable business segment during 2009 was 3,100.



Historically, the Glass reportable segment included the
automotive glass and services business. In September 2008, PPG completed a transaction by which it divested a majority interest in the automotive glass and services business. The results of this business through September 30, 2008 are reported as
part of the Glass reportable segment in the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. See Note 3, “Divestiture of Automotive Glass and Services Business” under Item 8 for additional information.



Raw Materials and Energy

The effective management of raw materials and energy is important to PPG’s continued success. Our primary energy cost is natural gas
used in our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. In 2009, our natural gas costs continued to be volatile and on average decreased almost 33 percent in the U.S. compared to 2008 levels. The decrease can be linked to year-over-year weak
consumption, favorable weather and inflated inventories.



During 2009, the benefit of lower coatings raw material costs totaled $150 million globally, recovering a portion of the raw material cost increases that occurred over the prior three years of $150 million in 2008, $40 million in 2007 and
$75 million in 2006. Many of our coatings raw materials are petroleum based and changes in pricing for these raw materials traditionally lag oil price fluctuations by several months. Our costs are also dependent on global supply and demand for these
materials, which can vary by geographic region. Sluggish global demand resulting from the economic recession combined with overcapacity and high inventory levels caused our raw material costs to decline in 2009, particularly in the first half of the
year. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we experienced some cost increases as demand improved gradually and supplier inventories contracted.



The Company’s most significant raw materials are titanium dioxide and epoxy and other resins in the Coatings businesses; lenses, sand
and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals business; and sand and soda ash in the Glass businesses. Energy is a significant production cost in the Commodity Chemicals and Glass
businesses. Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of
critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts, multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology, whenever possible. The Company has aggressive sourcing initiatives underway to support its continuous
efforts to find the lowest total material costs. These initiatives include reformulation of certain of our products using both petroleum derived and bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy. Another initiative is to qualify multiple
sources of supply, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world.



We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals that impact or could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in
our production processes. Our ongoing global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards.



In December 2006, the European Union (“EU”) member states adopted a new comprehensive chemical management legislation known as
“REACH” (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals). REACH applies to all chemical substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of one metric ton or more annually and will require the registration of
approximately 30,000 chemical substances with the European Chemicals Agency. PPG met the requirements for pre-registration of such chemicals that ended on December 1, 2008. Additionally, REACH requires the registration of these substances, entailing
the filing of extensive data on their potential risks to human health and the environment. Registration activities will occur in three phases over an 11-year period, based on tonnage and level of concern, with the first registration deadline set for
December 1, 2010. Subsequent phases end in 2013 and 2018. In the case of chemicals with a high level of concern, the regulation calls for progressive substitution unless no alternative can be found; in these cases, authorization of the chemicals
will be required.



PPG has established a
dedicated organization to manage REACH implementation. We have continued review of our product portfolio, worked closely with our suppliers to assure their commitment to register substances in our key raw materials and begun preparation for
registration of substances in PPG manufactured or imported raw materials. We will continue to work with our suppliers to understand the future availability and viability of the raw materials we use in our production processes.



Compliance with the REACH legislation will result in increased
costs due to registration costs, product testing and reformulation, risk characterization and participation in Substance Information Exchange Forums (“SIEFs”) required to coordinate registration dossier preparation. PPG has identified a
number of substances that may require 2010 registration and is engaged with other key companies through SIEFs to develop the required registration dossiers. The costs for 2013 and 2018 registrations and potential additional future testing in



2009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K7






support of 2010 registrations are currently unclear; however, our preliminary estimate, in total, is in the range of $30 million to $45 million. We anticipate that some current raw materials and
products will be subject to the REACH authorization process and believe that we will be able to demonstrate adequate risk management for the use and application of the majority of such substances.



The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”)
has formally withdrawn their previously- announced program called “ChAMP” (Chemical Assessment and Management Program). This program had been intended to address hazard and risk characterization of chemicals imported or manufactured in the
U.S. in quantities above 25,000 pounds annually. Further, the USEPA announced that ChAMP will be superseded by a comprehensive approach to enhancing the Agency’s current chemicals management program.



At this time, it is not possible to quantify the financial
impact of these regulatory initiatives on PPG’s businesses.



Research and Development

Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success
throughout its history. Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities, were $403 million, $468 million and $363 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These costs totaled approximately 3% of sales in each
of these years, representing a level of expenditure that is expected to continue in 2010. PPG owns and operates several facilities to conduct research and development relating to new and improved products and processes. Additional process and
product research and development work is also undertaken at many of the Company’s manufacturing plants. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our costs effectively, we operate a global competitive sourcing laboratory in China, have
outsourcing arrangements with several laboratories and have been actively pursuing government funding of a small, but growing portion of the Company’s research efforts. Because of the Company’s broad array of products and customers, PPG is
not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.



Patents

PPG considers patent protection to be important. The Company’s reportable business
segments are not materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. PPG earned $45 million in 2009, $52 million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.



Backlog

In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to
projections of future demand and the level of incoming orders.



Non-U.S. Operations

PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations, and as a result we
are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While approximately 75% of sales and operating income is generated by products sold in
the United States, Canada and Western Europe, our remaining sales and operating income are generated in developing regions, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.



Employee Relations

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG during 2009 was 39,900. The Company has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. While we have experienced occasional work
stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a
significant impact on PPG’s operating results. Overall, the Company believes it has good relationships with its employees.



Environmental Matters

PPG is subject to existing and evolving standards relating to protection of the environment. Capital expenditures for environmental control projects were $27 million, $15 million and $16 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for such projects in 2010 will be in the range of $20-$25 million. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory
standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.



PPG completed the conversion of its Lake Charles, La., mercury cell chlor-alkali unit to membrane cell technology in 2007. PPG currently
operates one remaining mercury cell production unit located in Natrium, W.Va. This unit constitutes approximately 4% of PPG’s total chlor-alkali production capacity.



PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning 104 current and former manufacturing sites and offsite waste
disposal locations, including 22 sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste disposal locations, each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of
joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the
nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company



82009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






has established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31,
2009 and 2008, PPG had reserves for environmental contingencies totaling $287 million and $299 million, respectively, of which $59 million and $44 million, respectively, were classified as current liabilities. Pretax charges against income for
environmental remediation costs in 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $11 million, $15 million and $12 million, respectively. Cash outlays related to such environmental remediation aggregated $24 million, $24 million and $19 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. As part of the allocation of the SigmaKalon purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the reserve for environmental contingencies was increased by $37 million in 2008. The impact of foreign currency translation
increased the liability by $1 million in 2009 and decreased the liability by $5 million in 2008. Environmental remediation of a former chromium manufacturing plant site and associated sites in Jersey City, N.J., represents the major part of our
existing reserves. Included in the amounts mentioned above were $188 million and $193 million in reserves at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with all New Jersey chromium sites.



The Company’s experience to date regarding environmental
matters leads PPG to believe that it will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that
such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.



Our continuing efforts to analyze and assess the environmental issues associated with a former chromium manufacturing plant site located in Jersey City, N.J., and the Calcasieu River Estuary located near
our Lake Charles, La. chlor-alkali plant resulted in a pre-tax charge of $173 million in the third quarter of 2006 for the estimated costs of remediating these sites. These charges for estimated environmental remediation costs in 2006 were
significantly higher than PPG’s historical range. Excluding 2006, pre-tax charges against income have ranged between $10 million and $49 million per year for the past 15 years. We anticipate that charges against income in 2010 for environmental
remediation costs will be within this historical range.



In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner, is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates, and the outcome of these environmental contingencies
will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 16,
“Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters.



Public and governmental concerns related to climate change continue to grow, leading to efforts to limit the greenhouse gas (“GHG”)
emissions believed to be responsible. These concerns were reflected in the 2005 framework for GHG reduction under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”). The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by
many countries where PPG operates, including the European Union and Canada, though not in the U.S. The European Union implemented a cap and trade approach with a mandatory emissions trading scheme for GHGs. In December 2007, delegates to the UNFCCC
reached agreement on development of a plan for the second phase of Kyoto, which culminated in the Copenhagen Accord in December 2009. The Copenhagen Accord requires Annex I Parties (economically developed countries) to further strengthen the
emission reductions initiated by the Kyoto Protocol by submitting economy-wide emission targets for 2020. PPG has operations in many of these countries. However, there are indications that some influential Annex 1 and Non-Annex 1 countries may
decide to reduce their emission targets or forego signing the Accord thereby putting the future of the entire Climate Change Convention into question.



A substantial portion of PPG’s GHG emissions are generated by locations in the U.S., where considerable legislative and regulatory
activity has taken place during 2009. As a result of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in April 2007 declaring that GHGs are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act, the USEPA proposed and later finalized in December 2009 an Endangerment Finding that
GHG emissions “threaten public health and welfare of current and future generations.” Based on the Endangerment Finding, the USEPA proposed new, “tailored” thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act New Source
Review and title V operating permit programs would be required for new or existing industrial facilities. As proposed, the rules would impose new permit requirements on PPG facilities emitting more than 25,000 tons of GHGs per year. The U.S. federal
government has committed to a 17% economy-wide emission reduction target below 2005 levels by 2020. The potential impact of these proposed regulations on PPG will not be known until they are finalized.



PPG is a member of the U.S.-based Climate Registry, an
organization that sets standards to calculate, verify and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions into a single registry. The Registry assists in verification of current and future PPG GHG reduction achievements in preparation for potential
imposition in the U.S. of GHG reduction goals. PPG is also a member of the USEPA’s Climate Leaders program, which works with companies to develop comprehensive climate-change strategies. In addition,



2009 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K9






PPG has been recognized by the Climate Disclosure Project as a leader in emissions disclosure and reduction.



Energy prices and supply continue to be a concern for major energy users. Since PPG’s GHG emissions arise
principally from combustion of fossil fuels, PPG has for some time recognized the desirability of reducing energy consumption and GHG generation. We committed under the Business Roundtable’s Climate RESOLVE program to reduce our GHG intensity
(GHGs produced per million dollars of revenue) by 18% between 2002 and 2012. PPG achieved this target in 2006, six years ahead of schedule. Additionally, in 2007 PPG announced new corporate targets, namely (i) a reduction in energy intensity by 25%
from 2006 to 2016 and (ii) a 10% absolute reduction in GHG emissions from 2006 to 2011. PPG has joined the U.S. Department of Energy Save Energy Now LEADER Program reinforcing the company’s voluntary efforts to significantly reduce its
industrial energy intensity. Recognizing the continuing importance of this matter, PPG has a senior management group with a mandate to guide the Company’s progress in this area.



PPG’s public disclosure on energy security and climate change can be viewed in our Sustainability Reporthttp://corporateportal.ppg.com/ppg/csror at the Carbon Disclosure Projectwww.cdproject.net.



Available Information

The Company’s website address iswww.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases
and earnings releases to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s website to the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Reference to the Company’s
and SEC’s websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.



