Item 1. Business



PPG Industries, Inc., incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883,
is comprised of six reportable business segments: Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings, Architectural Coatings – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Optical and Specialty Materials, Commodity Chemicals and Glass. Each of the business
segments in which PPG is engaged is highly competitive. The diversification of product lines and worldwide markets served tend to minimize the impact on PPG’s total sales and earnings from changes in demand for a particular product line or in a
particular geographic area. Refer to Note 25, “Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to our reportable business segments.



Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and
Architectural Coatings - EMEA

PPG is a major global supplier of protective and decorative coatings. The Performance
Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments supply protective and decorative finishes for customers in a wide array of end use markets, including industrial equipment, appliances and packaging;
factory-finished aluminum extrusions and steel and aluminum coils; marine and aircraft equipment; automotive original equipment; and other industrial and consumer products. In addition to supplying finishes to the automotive original equipment
market (“OEM”), PPG supplies refinishes to the automotive aftermarket. PPG also supplies coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive
and consists of a few large firms with global presence and many smaller firms serving local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world’s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many
smaller regional coatings companies. Product development, innovation, quality and technical and customer service have been stressed by PPG and have been significant factors in developing an important supplier position by PPG’s coatings
businesses comprising the Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments.



On January 2, 2008, PPG completed the acquisition of SigmaKalon Group (“SigmaKalon”), a worldwide coatings producer based
in Uithoorn, Netherlands. The results of operations of SigmaKalon are included in PPG’s consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date onward. The businesses acquired from SigmaKalon produce architectural, protective and marine and
industrial coatings. The protective and marine and industrial coatings businesses of SigmaKalon are managed as part of PPG’s previously existing coatings businesses. The SigmaKalon architectural coatings business in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa is reported as a separate reportable business segment known as Architectural Coatings – EMEA since 2008. This business represented about 70% of SigmaKalon’s preacquisition sales.



The Performance Coatings reportable segment is comprised of
the refinish, aerospace, protective and marine and architectural – Americas and Asia Pacific coatings businesses.



The refinish coatings business supplies coatings products for automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light
industrial coatings for a wide array of markets and specialty coatings for signs. These products are sold primarily through distributors.



The aerospace coatings business supplies sealants, coatings, technical cleaners and transparencies for commercial, military, regional jet
and general aviation aircraft and transparent armor for military land vehicles. PPG supplies products to aircraft manufacturers, maintenance and aftermarket customers around the world both on a direct basis and through a company-owned distribution
network.



The protective and marine coatings
business supplies coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures to metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges, rail cars and shipping containers. These products are sold through the
company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and directly to customers.



Product performance, technology, quality, distribution and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in these three coatings businesses.



The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific
business primarily produces coatings used by painting and maintenance contractors and by consumers for decoration and maintenance. These coatings are sold under a number of brands. Architectural coatings – Americas and Asia Pacific products are
sold through a combination of company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers, independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for the
architectural coatings business. The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business operates about 400 company-owned stores in North America and about 50 company-owned stores in Australia.



The major global competitors of the Performance Coatings
reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV, BASF Corporation, the DuPont Company, the Sherwin-Williams Company, Valspar Corporation and GKN plc. The average number of persons employed by the Performance Coatings reportable segment during 2010 was about
12,000.



2010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K5






The Industrial
Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the automotive OEM, industrial and packaging coatings businesses. Industrial, automotive OEM and packaging coatings are formulated specifically for the customers’ needs and application methods.



The industrial and automotive OEM coatings
businesses sell directly to a variety of manufacturing companies. PPG also supplies adhesives and sealants for the automotive industry and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for industrial and automotive applications. PPG has established
alliances with Kansai Paint, Helios Group and Asian Paints Ltd. to serve certain automotive original equipment manufacturers in various regions of the world. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Kansai Finishes to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM
customers in North America and Europe. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Helios Ltd. to serve Russian-based automotive OEM customers in Russia and the Ukraine. PPG and Asian Paints currently each own a 50% interest in Asian PPG Paints to serve global
and domestic-based automotive OEM customers in India. In January of 2011, PPG announced that it plans to expand the Asian PPG Paints joint venture and also create a second 50-50 joint venture with Asian Paints. The expansion of the existing joint
venture will expand its scope to serve India’s industrial liquid, marine and consumer packaging coatings markets. The new venture will serve the protective, industrial powder, industrial containers and light industrial coatings markets. These
transactions are subject to Indian regulatory approvals and are expected to be completed during 2011. PPG and Asian Paints have agreed that PPG will lead the existing joint venture and Asian Paints will lead the new venture.



The packaging coatings business supplies coatings and inks
to the manufacturers of aerosol, food and beverage containers.



Product performance, technology, quality and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in the industrial coatings businesses. The major global competitors of the Industrial Coatings
reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV, BASF Corporation, the DuPont Company, Valspar Corporation and Nippon Paint. The average number of persons employed by the Industrial Coatings reportable segment during 2010 was about 7,900.



The Architectural Coatings – EMEA business supplies a
variety of coatings under a number of brands and purchased sundries to painting contractors and consumers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Architectural Coatings – EMEA products are sold through a combination of about 600 company-owned
stores, home centers, paint dealers, independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for this business. The major competitors of the
Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment are Akzo Nobel NV and Materis Paints. The average number of persons employed by the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment during 2010 was about 8,200.



Optical and Specialty Materials

PPG’s Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment is comprised of the optical products and silicas
businesses. The primary Optical and Specialty Materials products areTransitions®lenses, optical lens
materials andhigh performance sunlenses; amorphous precipitated silicas for tire, battery separator and other end-use markets; andTeslin®substrate used in such applications as radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and labels, e-passports, drivers’ licenses and identification cards.Transitions®lenses are processed and distributed by PPG’s 51%-owned joint venture with Essilor
International. In the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses, product quality and performance, branding, distribution and technical service are the most critical competitive factors. The major global competitors of the Optical and Specialty
Materials reportable segment are Vision-Ease Lens, Corning, Inc., Acomon AG, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Rhodia, S.A. and Evonik Industries, A.G. The average number of persons employed by the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable business segment
during 2010 was about 2,900.



Commodity
Chemicals

PPG is a producer and supplier of basic chemicals. The Commodity Chemicals reportable segment produces
chlor-alkali and derivative products, including chlorine, caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer, chlorinated solvents, calcium hypochlorite, ethylene dichloride, hydrochloric acid and phosgene derivatives. Most of these products are sold directly to
manufacturing companies in the chemical processing, rubber and plastics, paper, minerals, metals and water treatment industries. PPG competes with six other major producers of chlor-alkali products, including The Dow Chemical Company, Formosa
Plastics Corporation, U.S.A., Georgia Gulf Corporation, Olin Corporation, Occidental Chemical Corporation and Shintech, Inc. Price, product availability, product quality and customer service are the key competitive factors. The average number of
persons employed by the Commodity Chemicals reportable business segment during 2010 was about 2,000.



Glass

PPG is a producer of flat glass in North
America and a global producer of continuous-strand fiber glass. The Glass reportable business segment is comprised of the flat glass (formerly known as performance glazings) and fiber glass businesses. PPG’s major markets are commercial and
residential construction and the wind energy, energy infrastructure, transportation and electronics industries. Most glass products are sold directly to manufacturing companies. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by the
continuous-strand process.



The bases for
competition in the Glass businesses are price, quality, technology and customer service. The Company competes with four major producers of flat glass including Asahi Glass Company, Cardinal Glass Industries, Guardian Industries and NSG Pilkington,
and six major producers of fiber glass throughout the world,



62010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




including Owens Corning-Vetrotex, Jushi Group, Johns Manville Corporation, CPIC Fiberglass, AGY and Taishan Fiberglass. The average number of persons employed by the Glass reportable business
segment during 2010 was about 3,100.



Historically, the Glass reportable segment included the automotive glass and services business. In September 2008, PPG completed a
transaction by which it divested a majority interest in the automotive glass and services business. The results of this business through September 30, 2008 are reported as part of the Glass reportable segment in the consolidated financial
statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. See Note 3, “Divestiture of Automotive Glass and Services Business” under Item 8 for additional information.



Raw Materials and Energy

The effective management of raw materials and energy is important to PPG’s continued success. Our primary energy cost is natural gas
used in our Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses. Inclusive of the impact of PPG’s natural gas hedging activities, PPG’s 2010 natural gas cost decreased 12% in the U.S. compared to 2009.



During 2010, the incremental cost of coatings raw materials
due to inflation was approximately $210 million. This compares to a benefit from lower coatings raw material prices of $150 million in 2009 and to raw material inflation of $150 million in 2008. Many of our coatings raw materials are petroleum based
and changes in pricing for these raw materials traditionally lag oil price fluctuations by several months. While crude oil prices remained relatively stable through most of the year, the tightness of supply of several key raw materials along with
unanticipated, stronger global demand drove market price increases in nearly all major coatings raw material categories. In addition, the adverse effects of a significant number of supplier disruptions, includingforce majeuredeclarations by
key suppliers across most of our product portfolio, strained our supply chains and encouraged higher prices.



The Company’s most significant raw materials are titanium dioxide, solvents and epoxy and other resins in the Coatings businesses;
lenses, sandand soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals business; and sand, clay and soda ash in the Glass businesses. Energy is a significant production cost in the Commodity
Chemicals and Glass businesses. Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for
the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts, multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. The Company is continuing its aggressive sourcing initiatives to
support its continuous efforts to find the lowest raw material costs. These initiatives include reformulation of certain of our products using both petroleum-derived and bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy. Another initiative
is to qualify multiple and local sources of supply, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world.



We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals that impact or could potentially impact the
availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards.



In December 2006, the European Union (“EU”) member
states adopted new comprehensive chemical management legislation known as “REACH” (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals). REACH applies to all chemical substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of
one metric ton or more annually and will require the registration of approximately 30,000 chemical substances with the European Chemicals Agency. PPG met the requirements for pre-registration of such chemicals that ended on December 1, 2008.
Additionally, REACH requires the registration of these substances, entailing the filing of extensive data on their potential risks to human health and the environment. Registration activities are occurring in three phases over an 11-year period,
based on tonnage and level of concern. The first registration deadline was December 1, 2010. Subsequent phases end in 2013 and 2018. In the case of chemicals with a high level of concern, the regulation calls for progressive substitution unless
no alternative can be found; in these cases, authorization of the chemicals will be required.



PPG has established a dedicated organization to manage REACH implementation. We have continued to review of our product portfolio, worked closely with our suppliers to assure their commitment to register
substances in our key raw materials and begun preparation for registration of substances in PPG manufactured or imported raw materials. We will continue to work with our suppliers to understand the future availability and viability of the raw
materials we use in our production processes.



Compliance with the REACH legislation will result in increased costs due to registration costs, product testing and reformulation, risk
characterization and participation in Substance Information Exchange Forums (“SIEFs”) required to coordinate registration dossier preparation. PPG identified 10 substances that required registration in 2010 and engaged with other key
companies through SIEFs to develop the required registration dossiers. The costs for 2013 and 2018 registrations and potential additional future testing in support of 2010 registrations are currently unclear; however, our current estimate of the
total spend during 2011-2018 is in the range of $25 million to $40 million. We anticipate that some current raw materials and products will be subject to the REACH



2010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K7




authorization process and believe that we will be able to demonstrate adequate risk management for the use and application of the majority of such substances.



Research and Development

Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success throughout its history. Research and development costs, including
depreciation of research facilities, were $408 million, $403 million and $468 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These costs totaled approximately 3% of sales in each year of the period from 2008 to 2010. PPG owns and operates several
facilities to conduct research and development relating to new and improved products and processes. Additional process and product research and development work is also undertaken at many of the Company’s manufacturing plants. As part of our
ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs effectively, we operate a global competitive sourcing laboratory in China. We have obtained government funding of a small portion of the Company’s research efforts and we will
continue to pursue government funding. Because of the Company’s broad array of products and customers, PPG is not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.



Patents

PPG considers patent protection to be important. The Company’s reportable business segments are not materially dependent upon any
single patent or group of related patents. PPG earned $58 million in 2010, $45 million in 2009 and $52 million in 2008 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.



Backlog

In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to
projections of future demand and the level of incoming orders.



Non-U.S. Operations

PPG has a significant
investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including
economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.



Our sales generated by products sold in the developed and emerging regions of the world over the past three years are summarized below:



(millions)Sales201020092008United States, Canada, Western Europe$9,837$9,252$12,420Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia3,5862,9873,429Total$13,423$12,239$15,849



Seasonality

PPG’s earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and cash flow from operations is greatest in the fourth quarter
due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in PPG’s architectural coatings businesses. Demand for PPG’s architectural coatings products is typically strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home improvement, maintenance
and construction activity during the spring and summer months in North America and Europe. This higher activity level results in higher outstanding receivables that are collected in the fourth quarter generating higher fourth quarter cash flow.



Employee Relations

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG at December 31, 2010 was 38,300. The Company has numerous collective bargaining
agreements throughout the world. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements
on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on PPG’s operating results. Overall, the Company believes it has good relationships with its employees.



Environmental Matters

PPG is subject to existing and evolving standards relating to protection of the environment. Capital expenditures for environmental
control projects were $16 million, $27 million and $15 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for such projects in 2011 will be in the range of $15 - $20 million. Although future capital expenditures are
difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.



PPG completed the conversion of its Lake Charles, La.,
mercury cell chlor-alkali unit to membrane cell technology in 2007. PPG currently operates one remaining mercury cell production unit located in Natrium, W.Va. This unit constitutes approximately 4% of PPG’s total chlor-alkali production
capacity.



PPG is negotiating with various
government agencies concerning 106 current and former manufacturing sites and offsite waste disposal locations, including 22 sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste
disposal locations, each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a
wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company has



82010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31,
2010 and 2009, PPG had reserves for environmental contingencies totaling $272 million and $287 million, respectively, of which $83 million and $59 million, respectively, were classified as current liabilities. Pretax charges against income for
environmental remediation costs in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $21 million, $11 million and $15 million, respectively. Cash outlays related to such environmental remediation aggregated $34 million, $24 million and $24 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The impact of foreign currency translation decreased the liability by $2 million in 2010 and increased the liability by $1 million in 2009. Environmental remediation of a former chromium manufacturing plant site and associated sites in
Jersey City, N.J. (which we refer to as “New Jersey Chrome”), represents the major part of our existing reserves. Included in the amounts mentioned above were $168 million and $188 million in reserves at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively, associated with all New Jersey chromium sites.



The Company’s experience to date regarding environmental matters leads PPG to believe that it will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the
environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.



Our continuing efforts to analyze and assess the
environmental issues associated with a former chromium manufacturing plant site located in Jersey City, N.J., and the Calcasieu River Estuary located near our Lake Charles, La. chlor-alkali plant resulted in a pre-tax charge of $173 million in the
third quarter of 2006 for the estimated costs of remediating these sites. These charges for estimated environmental remediation costs in 2006 were significantly higher than PPG’s historical range. Excluding 2006, pre-tax charges against income
have ranged between $10 million and $35 million per year for the past 15 years. We anticipate that charges against income in 2011 for environmental remediation costs will be within this historical range.



In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an
environmentally sound manner, is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates and the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial
position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 16, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this
Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters.



Public and governmental concerns related to climate change continue to grow, leading to efforts to limit the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions believed to be responsible. These concerns were
reflected in the 2005 framework for GHG reduction under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”). The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by many countries where PPG operates, including the European
Union and Canada, though not by the U.S. The European Union implemented a cap and trade approach with a mandatory emissions trading scheme for GHGs. In December 2007, delegates to the UNFCCC reached agreement on development of a plan for the second
phase of Kyoto, which culminated in the Copenhagen Accord in December 2009. The Copenhagen Accord requires Annex I Parties (economically developed countries) to further strengthen the emission reductions initiated by the Kyoto Protocol by submitting
economy-wide emission targets for 2020. PPG has operations in many of these countries. However, there are indications that some influential Annex 1 and Non-Annex 1 countries may decide to reduce their emission targets or forego signing the Accord
thereby putting the future of the entire Climate Change Convention into question.



A substantial portion of PPG’s GHG emissions are generated by locations in the U.S., where considerable legislative and regulatory activity took place during 2009. As a result of a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in April 2007 declaring that GHGs are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) proposed and later finalized in December 2009 an Endangerment Finding that GHG emissions
“threaten public health and welfare of current and future generations.” Based on the Endangerment Finding, the USEPA proposed then finalized new, “tailored” thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act New Source
Review and title V operating permit programs would be required for new or existing industrial facilities. These rules impose new permit requirements on PPG facilities emitting more than 100,000 tons of GHGs per year as well as on new equipment
installations that will emit more than 75,000 tons of GHGs per year. The U.S. federal government has committed to a 17% economy-wide emission reduction target below 2005 levels by 2020. The potential impact on PPG of the implementation of these
requirements will not be known until related guidelines are proposed and finalized.



With the enactment of USEPA’s own GHG reporting, verification, and permitting regulations, PPG made the decision to withdraw from the U. S. based Climate Registry program. With formal regulations in
place, PPG no longer saw sufficient value in continuing to belong and pay dues to the voluntary program. Also in 2010, USEPA announced their decision to disband their own voluntary Climate Leaders program, of which PPG had been a



2010 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K9




member. PPG has, and will continue to, annually report our global GHG emissions to the voluntary Climate Disclosure project, which has ranked PPG as a leader in emissions disclosures and
reduction.



Energy prices and supply continue to
be a concern for major energy users. Since PPG’s GHG emissions arise principally from combustion of fossil fuels, PPG has for some time recognized the desirability of reducing energy consumption and GHG generation. We committed under the
Business Roundtable’s Climate RESOLVE program to reduce our GHG intensity (GHGs produced per million dollars of revenue) by 18% between 2002 and 2012. PPG achieved this target in 2006, six years ahead of schedule. Additionally, in 2007 PPG
announced new corporate targets, namely (i) a reduction in energy intensity by 25% from 2006 to 2016 and (ii) a 10% absolute reduction in GHG emissions from 2006 to 2011. PPG has joined the U.S. Department of Energy Save Energy Now LEADER
Program reinforcing the company’s voluntary efforts to significantly reduce its industrial energy intensity. Recognizing the continuing importance of this matter, PPG has a senior management group with a mandate to guide the Company’s
progress in this area.



PPG’s public
disclosure on energy security and climate change can be viewed in our Sustainability Reporthttp://corporateportal.ppg.com/ppg/csror at the Carbon Disclosure Projectwww.cdproject.net.



Available Information

The Company’s website address iswww.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the
Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases and earnings releases to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s
website to the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Reference to the Company’s and SEC’s websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of
this Form 10-K.



