Item 1. Business



PPG Industries, Inc., incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883,
is comprised of six reportable business segments: Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings, Architectural Coatings – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Optical and Specialty Materials, Commodity Chemicals and Glass. Each of the business
segments in which PPG is engaged is highly competitive. The diversification of product lines and worldwide markets served tend to minimize the impact on PPG’s total sales and earnings from changes in demand for a particular product line or in a
particular geographic area. Refer to Note 24, “Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to our reportable business segments.



Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and
Architectural Coatings – EMEA





The Performance Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the refinish, aerospace, protective and marine and architectural – Americas and Asia Pacific coatings businesses.



The refinish coatings business supplies coatings products
for automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings for a wide array of markets and specialty coatings for signs. These products are sold primarily through independent distributors.



The aerospace coatings business supplies sealants, coatings,
technical cleaners and transparencies for commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft and transparent armor for military land vehicles. PPG supplies products to aircraft manufacturers and maintenance and aftermarket customers
around the world both on a direct basis and through a company-owned distribution network.



The protective and marine coatings business supplies coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures to metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships,
bridges, rail cars and shipping containers. These products are sold through the company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and directly to customers.



Product performance, technology, quality, distribution and
technical and customer service are major competitive factors in these three coatings businesses.



The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business primarily produces coatings used by painting and maintenance contractors and by consumers for decoration and maintenance of residential and
commercial building structures. These coatings are sold under a number of brands. Architectural coatings – Americas and Asia Pacific products are sold through a combination of company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers, and independent
distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for these architectural coatings businesses. The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business
operates about 400 company-owned stores in North America and about 40 company-owned stores in Australia.



The major global competitors of the Performance Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., BASF Corporation, E.I. duPont de Nemours
and Company, Hempel A/S, the Jotun Group, Masco Corporation, the Sherwin-Williams Company, Valspar Corporation and GKN plc. The average number of persons employed by the Performance Coatings reportable segment during 2011 was about 12,100.



The Industrial Coatings reportable segment is
comprised of the automotive OEM, industrial and packaging coatings businesses. Industrial, automotive OEM and packaging coatings are formulated specifically for the customers’ needs and application methods.



The industrial and automotive OEM coatings businesses sell
directly to a variety of manufacturing companies. PPG also supplies adhesives and sealants for the automotive industry and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for industrial and automotive applications. PPG has established alliances with
Kansai Paint, Helios Group and Asian Paints Ltd. to serve certain automotive original equipment manufacturers in various regions of the world. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG



2011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K5




Kansai Finishes to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM customers in North America and Europe. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Helios Ltd. to serve Russian-based automotive OEM customers in Russia
and the Ukraine. PPG and Asian Paints currently each own a 50% interest in Asian PPG Paints to serve global and domestic-based automotive OEM customers in India. In 2011, PPG announced that it plans to expand the current Asian Paints joint venture
to also create a second 50-50 joint venture with Asian Paints. The current joint venture will expand its scope to serve India’s industrial liquid, marine and consumer packaging coatings markets. The new venture will serve the protective,
industrial powder, industrial containers and light industrial coatings markets. These transactions are subject to Indian regulatory approvals and are expected to be completed during 2012. PPG and Asian Paints have agreed that PPG will control the
existing expanded joint venture and Asian Paints will control the new joint venture.



The packaging coatings business supplies coatings and inks to the manufacturers of aerosol, food and beverage containers.



Product performance, technology, cost effectiveness, quality
and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in the industrial coatings businesses. The major global competitors of the Industrial Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., BASF Corporation, the E.I. duPont de Nemours and
Company, Valspar Corporation and Nippon Paint. The average number of persons employed by the Industrial Coatings reportable segment during 2011 was about 8,000.



The Architectural Coatings – EMEA business supplies a
variety of coatings under a number of brands and purchased sundries to painting contractors and consumers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Architectural Coatings – EMEA products are sold through a combination of about 650 company-owned
stores, home centers, paint dealers, and independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for this business. The major competitors of the
Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V. and Materis Paints. The average number of persons employed by the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment during 2011 was about 7,900.



Optical and Specialty Materials



PPG’s Optical and Specialty
Materials reportable segment is comprised of the optical products and silicas businesses. The primary Optical and Specialty Materials products areTransitions®lenses, optical lens materials andhigh performance sunlenses; amorphous precipitated silicas for tire, battery separator and other end-use markets; andTeslin®substrate used in such applications as radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and labels,
e-passports, drivers’ licenses and identification cards.Transitions®lenses are processed and
distributed by PPG’s 51%-owned joint venture with Essilor International. In the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses, product quality and performance, branding, distribution and technical service are the most critical competitive factors.
The major global competitors of the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment are Vision-Ease Lens, Carl Zeiss AG, Corning, Inc., Hoya Corporation, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Rhodia, S.A., J.M. Huber and Evonik Industries, A.G. The average
number of persons employed by the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable business segment during 2011 was about 2,800.



Commodity Chemicals



PPG is a producer and supplier of basic chemicals. The Commodity Chemicals reportable segment produces chlor-alkali and derivative
products, including chlorine, caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer, chlorinated solvents, calcium hypochlorite, ethylene dichloride, hydrochloric acid and phosgene derivatives. Most of these products are sold directly to manufacturing companies in
the chemical processing, plastics, including polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”), paper, minerals, metals and water treatment industries. PPG competes with seven other major producers of chlor-alkali products, including The Dow Chemical Company,
Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A., Georgia Gulf Corporation, Occidental Chemical Corporation, Olin Corporation, Shintech, Inc and Westlake Chemical Corporation. Price, product availability, product quality and customer service are the key
competitive factors. The average number of persons employed by the Commodity Chemicals reportable business segment during 2011 was about 2,000.



Glass



The Glass reportable business segment is comprised of the flat glass and fiber glass businesses. PPG is a producer of flat glass in North
America and a global producer of continuous-strand fiber glass. PPG’s major markets are commercial and residential construction and the wind energy, energy infrastructure, transportation and electronics industries. Most glass products are sold
directly to manufacturing companies. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by the continuous-strand process.



The bases for competition in the Glass businesses are price, quality, technology and customer service. The Company competes with four
major producers of flat glass, including Asahi Glass Company, Cardinal Glass Industries, Guardian Industries and NSG Pilkington, and eight major producers of fiber glass throughout the world, including Owens Corning-Vetrotex, Jushi Group, Johns
Manville Corporation, CPIC Fiberglass, AGY, NEG, 3B and Taishan Fiberglass. The average number of persons employed by the Glass reportable business segment during 2011 was about 3,200.



62011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




Raw Materials and Energy





The effective management of raw materials and energy is important to PPG’s continued success. The Company’s most significant raw materials are epoxy and other resins, titanium dioxide and other
pigments, and solvents in the Coatings businesses; lenses, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials segment; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals segment; and sand, clay and soda ash in the Glass segment. Many raw material
prices began to inflate during 2010, which continued through the majority of 2011, reflecting recovering economic demand and decreased supply stemming from capacity idled or closed during the recession. Also, adverse effects of supplier disruptions
due to natural disasters placed additional pressure on some of our supply chains leading to higher prices.



Coatings raw materials include both organic, primarily petroleum based, and inorganic materials and generally comprise 70-to-80 percent of
cost of goods sold in most coatings formulations and represent PPG’s single largest production cost component. In 2011, overall coatings raw materials costs inflated by approximately 10-to-12 percent for the Company. The largest inflation
impacts were from titanium dioxide pigments and certain propylene-based resins. During 2011, the incremental cost of coatings raw materials due to inflation was approximately $440 million. This compares to inflation of approximately $210 million in
2010 and a benefit of $150 million in 2009 reflecting a drop in overall commodity prices due to the recession.



Energy is a significant production cost in the Commodity Chemicals and Glass segments, and our primary energy cost is natural gas. PPG
purchases 60-to-70 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs) of natural gas each year. Inclusive of the impact of PPG’s natural gas hedging activities, PPG’s 2011 natural gas unit cost decreased 15 percent in the U.S. compared to 2010,
reflecting higher natural gas supply stemming from the success of shale gas drilling. In our Commodity Chemicals business, the positive impact of the lower natural gas prices was partially offset by an increase in ethylene prices. During 2011,
PPG’s costs for ethylene increased substantially compared to 2010 driven by a combination of tight supply due to production outages and increased global demand, particularly in U.S. exports of ethylene derivative products.



Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are
purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts,
multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. The Company is continuing its aggressive sourcing initiatives to support its continuous efforts to find the lowest raw material costs. These initiatives include
reformulation of our products using both petroleum-derived and bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy, qualifying multiple and local sources of supply, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world. The
Company also has undertaken a strategic initiative with multiple global suppliers to secure and enhance PPG’s supply of titanium dioxide, as well as to add to the global supply of this raw material. PPG possesses intellectual property and
expertise in the production and finishing of titanium dioxide pigment and we intend to leverage this and engage potential partners to develop innovative supply solutions through technical collaborations, joint ventures, licensing or other commercial
initiatives.



We are subject to existing and
evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals that impact or could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing global product stewardship efforts are
directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards.



In December 2006, the European Union (“EU”) member states adopted new comprehensive chemical management legislation known as “REACH” (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of
Chemicals). REACH applies to all chemical substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of one metric ton or more annually and will require the registration of approximately 30,000 chemical substances with the European Chemicals
Agency. PPG met the requirements for pre-registration of such chemicals that ended on December 1, 2008. Additionally, REACH requires the registration of these substances, entailing the filing of extensive data on their potential risks to human
health and the environment. Registration activities are occurring in three phases over an 11-year period, based on tonnage and level of concern. The first registration deadline was December 1, 2010. Subsequent phases end in 2013 and 2018. In
the case of chemicals with a high level of concern, the regulation calls for progressive substitution unless no alternative can be found; in these cases, authorization of the chemicals will be required.



PPG established a dedicated organization to manage REACH
implementation. We have continued to review our product portfolio, worked closely with our suppliers to assure their commitment to register substances in our key raw materials and started registration of substances that PPG manufactures or imports
as raw materials. We will continue to work with our suppliers to understand the future availability and viability of the raw materials we use in our production processes.



Compliance with the REACH legislation will result in
increased costs related to the registration process, product testing and reformulation, risk characterization and participation in Substance Information Exchange Forums (“SIEFs”) required to coordinate registration dossier preparation. PPG
identified 10 substances that required



2011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K7




registration in 2010 and engaged with other key companies through SIEFs to develop the required registration dossiers. Actual costs for substance registration were not significant in 2010 or
2011, due primarily to fewer substances requiring registration than originally anticipated. The costs for 2013 and 2018 registrations and potential additional future testing in support of 2010 registrations are currently unclear; however, our
current estimate of the total spend during 2012-2018 is in the range of $10 million to $25 million. We anticipate that some current raw materials and products will be subject to the REACH authorization process and believe that we will be able
to demonstrate adequate risk management for the use and application of the majority of such substances.



Changes to chemical control regulations have been proposed or implemented in many countries beyond the EU, including China, Canada, the
United States, and Korea. Because implementation of many of these programs have not been finalized, the financial impact can not be estimated at this time. We anticipate chemical control regulations will continue to increase globally, and
we have implemented programs to track and comply with the regulations.



Research and Development



Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success throughout its history. Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities, were $445 million, $408 million and
$403 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These costs totaled approximately 3% of sales in each year of the period from 2009 to 2011. PPG owns and operates several facilities to conduct research and development relating to new and
improved products and processes. Additional process and product research and development work is also undertaken at many of the Company’s manufacturing plants. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs
effectively, we operate a global competitive sourcing laboratory in China. We have obtained government funding of a small portion of the Company’s research efforts, and we will continue to pursue government funding. Because of the
Company’s broad array of products and customers, PPG is not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.



The Company seeks to optimize its investment in research and development to create new products to drive profitable growth. We align
our product development with the macro trends in the end-use markets we serve and leverage core technology platforms to develop products for unmet market needs. Our history of successful technology introductions is based on a commitment to an
efficient and effective innovation process and disciplined portfolio management.



Patents



PPG considers patent protection to be important. The Company’s reportable business segments are not materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. PPG earned $55 million in
2011, $58 million in 2010 and $45 million in 2009 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.



Backlog



In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to projections of future demand and the level of incoming orders.



Non-U.S. Operations



PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This
broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in
international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.



Our sales generated by products sold in the developed and emerging regions of the world over the past three years are summarized below:



(millions)Sales201120102009United States, Canada, Western Europe$10,844$9,837$9,252Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific4,0413,5862,987Total$14,885$13,423$12,239



Seasonality

PPG’s earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and cash flow from operations is greatest
in the fourth quarter due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in PPG’s architectural coatings businesses. Demand for PPG’s architectural coatings products is typically strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home
improvement, maintenance and construction activity during the spring and summer months in North America and Europe. This higher activity level results in higher outstanding receivables that are collected in the fourth quarter generating higher
fourth quarter cash flow.



Employee
Relations

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG at December 31, 2011 was 38,400. The Company
has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe we will be able
to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on PPG’s operating results. Overall, the Company believes it has good relationships with its employees.



Environmental Matters

PPG is subject to existing and evolving standards relating to protection of the environment. Capital



82011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




expenditures for environmental control projects were $15 million, $16 million and $27 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for such projects in 2012 will
be in the range of $15 – $20 million. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will
become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.



In March of 2011, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) proposed amendments to the national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for mercury emissions from
mercury cell chlor-alkali plants known as Mercury Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Mercury MACT”). The USEPA is projecting that it will finalize this rule in September 2012. PPG currently operates one remaining 200 ton-per-day
mercury cell production unit at its Natrium, W.Va. facility. This unit constitutes approximately 4% of PPG’s total chlor-alkali production capacity. PPG has made an application to the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission
(“ORSANCO”) for a variance from the mixing zone prohibition in Section VI G of the Pollution Control Standards, which are to become effective in October 2013. PPG has requested continued use of a mixing zone for mercury through the life of
the current permit, which is valid through January 2014 and for any subsequent permit. There are on-going discussions with ORSANCO, and PPG expects a decision by the full commission in 2012. Alternative strategies are under consideration to enable
the Natrium, W.Va. facility to operate the mercury production unit in compliance with the new standards if this request for a variance is denied.





The Company’s experience to date regarding environmental matters leads it to believe that it will have continuing expenditures for
compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.





In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner, is well positioned,



2011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K9




relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates and the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial
position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this
Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters and our accrued liability for estimated environmental remediation costs.



Public and governmental concerns related to climate change continue to grow, leading to efforts to limit the greenhouse gas
(“GHG”) emissions believed to be responsible. These concerns were reflected in the 2005 framework for GHG reduction under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”). The Kyoto
Protocol was adopted by many countries where PPG operates, including the European Union and Canada, though not by the U.S. The European Union implemented a cap and trade approach with a mandatory emissions trading scheme for GHGs. The recent 2011
UNFCC Climate Change Conference in Durban, South Africa resulted in the first agreement that includes both developed and developing (China and India) countries. The parties, including the U.S., Britain, China and India agreed to adopt, by 2015, a
universal legal agreement to cut carbon emissions. While PPG has operations in many of these countries, a substantial portion of PPG’s GHG emissions are generated by locations in the U.S., where considerable legislative and regulatory activity
has been taking place.



As a result of a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling in April 2007 declaring that GHGs are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act, USEPA proposed and later finalized in December 2009 an Endangerment Finding that GHG emissions “threaten public health and welfare of
current and future generations”. Based on the Endangerment Finding, the USEPA proposed then finalized new, “tailored” thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act New Source Review and title V operating permit programs
would be required for new or existing industrial facilities. These rules impose new permit requirements on PPG facilities emitting more than 100,000 tons of GHGs per year as well as on new equipment installations that will emit more than 75,000 tons
of GHGs per year. The U.S. federal government has committed to a 17% economy-wide emission reduction target below 2005 levels by 2020. The potential impact on PPG of the implementation of these requirements will not be known until related guidelines
are proposed and finalized.



With the enactment
of USEPA’s own GHG reporting, verification, and permitting regulations, PPG made the decision to withdraw from the U.S.-based Climate Registry reporting program. With formal regulations in place, PPG no longer saw sufficient value in continuing
to belong to this voluntary program. Also in 2010, USEPA announced its decision to disband its own voluntary Climate Leaders program, of which PPG had been a member. PPG has, and will continue to, annually report our global GHG emissions to the
voluntary Carbon Disclosure project.



Energy prices and availability of supply continue to be a concern for major energy users. Since PPG’s GHG emissions arise principally from combustion of fossil fuels, PPG has for some time recognized
the desirability of reducing energy consumption and GHG generation. In 2007, PPG announced corporate targets, namely (i) a reduction in energy intensity by 25% from 2006 to 2016 and (ii) a 10% absolute reduction in GHG emissions from 2006
to 2011. Effective energy management practices led to a four percent decline in PPG’s GHG emissions. While PPG fell short of its goal of reducing GHG emissions by 10 percent, the Company continues to work toward this long-term goal. PPG
participates in the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) Save Energy Now LEADER Program reinforcing the company’s voluntary efforts to significantly reduce its industrial energy intensity. In September 2011, the DOE changed its approach
to energy efficiency in the industrial sector and initiated the Better Buildings, Better Plants program. PPG is currently participating in this new program, which sets energy savings targets and provides a suite of educational, training, and
technical resources to help meet those targets. Recognizing the continuing importance of this matter, PPG has a senior management group with a mandate to guide the Company’s progress in this area.



In March of 2011 the USEPA issued Clean Air Act emissions
standards for large and small boilers and incinerators that burn solid waste known as the Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) regulations. These regulations are aimed at controlling emissions of air toxics. As a
result of numerous petitions from both industry and environmental groups, USEPA was required to reconsider their March 2011 final rule. On December 23, 2011 the USEPA’s Proposed Rule reconsidering the Boiler MACT regulations was published in
the Federal Register. USEPA has indicated its intent to issue the final regulations in early 2012 requiring that covered facilities achieve compliance within three years. There are 11 PPG facilities that will likely be subject to these regulations,
with the 115 megawatt coal fired power plant at PPG’s Natrium, W.Va. facility being the most significantly impacted. PPG continues to evaluate alternative paths of either retrofitting the Natrium boilers to burn natural gas or to engineer and
install pollution control equipment. The estimated potential cost for these capital improvements at our Natrium facility could be in the $15-$20 million range. The cost impact for the other affected facilities is not currently known, but is expected
to be of a lesser magnitude.



PPG’s public
disclosure on energy security and climate change can be viewed in our Sustainability Report



102011 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K




www.ppg.com/sustainabilityor at the Carbon Disclosure Projectwww.cdproject.net.



Available Information

The Company’s website address iswww.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases
and earnings releases to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s website to the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Reference to the Company’s
and SEC’s websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.



