Item 1. Business

PPG Industries, Inc., manufactures and distributes a broad range of coatings, optical and specialty materials and glass products.  The Company, incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883, is comprised of five reportable business segments: Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings, Architectural Coatings – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Optical and Specialty Materials and Glass. Each of the business segments in which PPG operates is highly competitive. The Company's diversification of product lines and worldwide markets served tends to minimize the impact on PPG’s total net sales and income from continuing operations from changes in demand either for a particular product line or in a particular geographic area. Refer to Note 21, "Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to our reportable business segments.

On January 28, 2013, PPG completed the separation of its commodity chemicals business and the merger of the subsidiary holding the PPG commodity chemicals business with a subsidiary of the Georgia Gulf Corporation (“Georgia Gulf”). Refer to Note 22, “Separation and Merger Transaction” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to this transaction.

On April 1, 2013, PPG finalized the acquisition of the North American architectural coatings business of Akzo Nobel N.V., Amsterdam, the Netherlands (“North American architectural coatings acquisition”).  The acquisition further extends PPG’s architectural coatings business in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean. With this acquisition, PPG has expanded its reach in all three major North American architectural coatings distribution channels, including home centers, independent paint dealers and company-owned paint stores. Refer to Note 2, "Acquisitions and Divestitures" under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding this acquisition.

Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA

PPG is a major global supplier of coatings. The Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments supply coatings for customers in a wide array of end-use markets, including industrial equipment, appliances and packaging; factory-finished aluminum extrusions and steel and aluminum coils; marine and aircraft equipment; automotive original equipment; and other industrial and consumer products. In addition to supplying coatings to the automotive original equipment market (“OEM”), PPG supplies refinishes to the automotive aftermarket. PPG also serves commercial and residential new build and maintenance markets by supplying coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive and consists of a few large firms with global presence and many smaller firms serving local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world’s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many smaller regional coatings companies. Product development, innovation, distribution,



quality and technical and customer service have been stressed by PPG and have been significant factors in developing an important supplier position by PPG’s coatings businesses comprising the Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments.

The Performance Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the refinish, aerospace, protective and marine and architectural – Americas and Asia Pacific coatings businesses.

Price, product performance, technology, quality, distribution and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in the following three coatings businesses.

The refinish coatings business supplies coatings products for automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings for a wide array of markets and specialty coatings for signs. These products are sold primarily through independent distributors.

The aerospace coatings business supplies sealants, coatings, maintenance cleaners and transparencies for commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft and transparent armor for specialty applications and also provides chemical management for the aerospace industry. PPG supplies products to aircraft manufacturers and maintenance and aftermarket customers around the world both on a direct basis and through a company-owned distribution network.

The protective and marine coatings business supplies coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures to metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges and rail cars. These products are sold through company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and directly to customers.

The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business primarily produces coatings used by painting and maintenance contractors and by consumers for decoration and maintenance of residential and commercial building structures. These coatings are sold under a number of brands, including PPG®, GLIDDEN®, OLYMPIC®, DULUX®(in Canada), SIKKENS®, PPG PITTSBURGH PAINTS®, MULCO®, FLOOD®, LIQUID NAILS®, SICO®, CIL®, RENNER®, TAUBMANS®, WHITE KNIGHT®, and BRISTOL®.  Architectural coatings – Americas and Asia Pacific products are also sold through a combination of company-owned stores, home centers and other regional or national consumer retail outlets, paint dealers, and independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for these architectural coatings businesses. At the end of 2013, the architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business operated about 870 company-owned stores in North America, of which 526 stores, net of redundant store closures, were added as a result of the North American architectural coatings acquisition. This business also operates about40company-owned stores in Australia.





2013 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K9






The major global competitors of the Performance Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems, BASF Corporation, Hempel A/S, the Jotun Group, Masco Corporation, the Sherwin-Williams Company, Valspar Corporation and RPM International Inc. The average number of persons employed by the Performance Coatings reportable segment during2013was about14,300.

The Industrial Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the automotive OEM, industrial and packaging coatings businesses. Industrial, automotive OEM and packaging coatings are formulated specifically for the customers’ needs and application methods.

The industrial and automotive OEM coatings businesses sell directly to a variety of manufacturing companies. PPG also supplies adhesives and sealants for the automotive industry and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for industrial and automotive applications. PPG has established alliances with Kansai Paints and Helios Group to serve certain automotive original equipment manufacturers in various regions of the world. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Kansai Finishes to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM customers in North America and Europe and PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Helios Ltd. to serve Russian-based automotive OEM customers in Russia and the Ukraine. The packaging coatings business supplies coatings to the manufacturers of aerosol, food, and beverage containers.

Price, product performance, technology, cost effectiveness, quality and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in the industrial coatings businesses. The major global competitors of the Industrial Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems, BASF Corporation, Valspar Corporation and Nippon Paint. The average number of persons employed by the Industrial Coatings reportable segment during2013was about9,500.

The Architectural Coatings – EMEA business supplies a variety of coatings and purchased sundries to painting contractors and consumers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  The coatings are sold under a number of brands, including SIGMA®, HISTOR®, SEIGNEURIE®, GUITTET®, PEINTURES GAUTHIER®, RIPOLIN®, JOHNSTONE'S®, LEYLAND®, PRIMALEX®, DEKORAL®, TRILAK®, PROMINENT PAINTS®, GORI®, and BONDEX®.  Architectural Coatings – EMEA products are sold through a combination of about660company-owned stores, regional home centers, paint dealers, and independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for this business. The major competitors of the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., Materis Paints and a variety of regional and national competitors in each country in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The average number of persons employed by the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment during2013was about7,900.





Optical and Specialty Materials

PPG’s Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment is comprised of the optical products and silicas businesses. The primary Optical and Specialty Materials products are  TRANSITIONS®lenses, optical lens materials and high performance sunlenses; amorphous precipitated silicas for tire, battery separator and other end-use markets; and TESLIN®substrate used in such applications as radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and labels, e-passports, drivers’ licenses and identification cards.Transitionslenses are processed and distributed by Transitions Optical, PPG’s 51% owned joint venture with Essilor International ("Essilor").  In the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses, product quality and performance, branding, distribution and technical service are the most critical competitive factors.

On July 29, 2013, PPG entered into an agreement to divest its 51% ownership interest in the Transitions Optical joint venture and 100% of PPG's optical sunlens business to Essilor.  Transitions Optical is a global supplier of photochromic lenses and a consolidated subsidiary of PPG.  The transaction reflects an enterprise value of approximately $3.4 billion, with PPG receiving cash at closing of $1.73 billion pretax or approximately $1.5 billion after-tax.  Essilor will also enter into multi-year agreements with PPG for continuing supply of photochromic materials and research and development services.  The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2014, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. Upon receipt of all required regulatory approvals, PPG expects to report Transitions Optical as discontinued operations.

The major global competitors of the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment are Vision-Ease Lens, Carl Zeiss AG, Corning, Inc., Hoya Corporation, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Solvay Group, J.M. Huber and Evonik Industries, A.G. The average number of persons employed by the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment during2013was about2,900.

Glass

The Glass reportable business segment is comprised of the flat glass and fiber glass businesses. PPG is a producer of flat glass in North America and a global producer of continuous-strand fiber glass. PPG’s major markets are commercial and residential construction and the wind energy, energy infrastructure, transportation and electronics industries. Most glass products are sold directly to manufacturing companies. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by the continuous-strand process.

Price, quality, technology and customer service are the key competitive factors in the glass businesses. The Company competes with several major producers of flat glass, including Asahi Glass Company, Cardinal Glass Industries, Guardian Industries and NSG Pilkington, and many major producers of fiber glass throughout the world, including Owens Corning, Jushi Group, Johns Manville Corporation, CPIC Fiberglass, AGY, NEG, 3B and Taishan Fiberglass. The average number of persons employed by the Glass reportable segment during2013was about3,100.





102013 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K








Raw Materials and Energy

The effective management of raw materials and energy is important to PPG’s continued success. The Company’s most significant raw materials are epoxy and other resins, titanium dioxide and other pigments, and solvents in the coatings businesses; lenses, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials segment; and sand, clay and soda ash in the Glass segment. Coatings raw materials, which include both organic, primarily petroleum based, materials and inorganic materials, including titanium dioxide, generally comprise between 70% and 80% of cost of goods sold in most coatings formulations and represent PPG’s single largest production cost component.

Energy is a significant production cost in the Glass segment, and our primary energy source is natural gas. With the separation of the commodity chemicals business, PPG's consumption of natural gas decreased significantly. Natural gas is expected to remain a competitive fuel source when compared to alternatives, especially on a global basis.  We will continue to use competitive sourcing and consumption reduction initiatives to manage natural gas costs.

Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts, multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. The Company is continuing its aggressive sourcing initiatives to effectively broaden our supply of high quality raw materials. These initiatives include qualifying multiple and local sources of supply, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world and a reduction in the amount of titanium dioxide used in our product formulations.  Our products use both petroleum-derived and bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy. Our global efforts to reduce titanium dioxide consumption resulted in a 4% reduction and an additional 2% reduction in 2012 and 2013, respectively.

The Company also has undertaken a strategic initiative to secure and enhance PPG’s supply of titanium dioxide, as well as to add to the global supply of this raw material. PPG possesses intellectual property and expertise in the production and finishing of titanium dioxide pigment and has and intends to continue to leverage this and engage potential parties to develop innovative supply solutions through technical collaborations, joint ventures, licensing or other commercial initiatives.

In 2012, PPG signed a license agreement with Henan Billions Chemicals Co., Ltd. ("Billions"), by which PPG will license certain chloride-based titanium dioxide technologies to Billions for use at Billions’ titanium dioxide refinement facilities in China. In addition, PPG has signed a long-term purchase agreement for titanium dioxide with Billions. PPG intends to use the chloride-based titanium dioxide manufactured by Billions for various end-use paint and coatings applications. Billions is also able to sell its chloride-based titanium dioxide to third parties.



In 2013, PPG signed a purchase and supply agreement as well as a research services agreement with Argex Titanium Inc. ("Argex") whereby PPG is providing technical support to Argex in connection with their efforts to develop a unique and low cost process to manufacture pigment grade titanium dioxide.

We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals which could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards.

Changes to chemical registration regulations have been proposed or implemented in the EU and many other countries, including China, Canada, the United States, and Korea. Because implementation of many of these programs has not been finalized, the financial impact cannot be estimated at this time. We anticipate that the number of chemical registration regulations will continue to increase globally, and we have implemented programs to track and comply with these regulations.

For 2014, the Company currently expects overall coatings raw material prices to increase modestly, with varied results by region and commodity type.  Natural gas pricing remains volatile, although increased output and infrastructure development from shale gas should continue to play a role in muting long-term changes in natural gas pricing.



Research and Development

Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success throughout its history. Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities, were $505 million, $468 million and $443 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These costs totaled approximately 3% of annual sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We have obtained government funding of a small portion of the Company's research efforts, and we will continue to pursue government funding.

PPG owns and operates several facilities to conduct research and development relating to new and improved products and processes.  In addition to the Company's centralized principal research and development centers (See Item 2 of this Form 10-K), our operating segments manage their development regionally through centers of excellence. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs effectively, we operate a global competitive sourcing laboratory in China. Because of the Company’s broad array of products and customers, PPG is not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.

The Company seeks to optimize its investment in research and development to create new products to drive profitable growth. We align our product development with the macro trends in the end-use markets we serve and leverage core technology platforms to develop products for unmet market needs. Our history of successful technology introductions is based on a commitment to an efficient and effective innovation process and disciplined portfolio management.





2013 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K11








Patents

PPG considers patent protection to be important; however,  the Company’s reportable business segments are not materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. PPG earned$48 millionin 2013,$51 millionin 2012 and$55 millionin 2011 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.



Backlog

In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders.  Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to projections of future demand and the level of incoming orders.



Global Operations

PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Our net sales in the developed and emerging regions of the world for the years ended December 31stare summarized below:

(millions)Net Sales201320122011United States, Canada, Western Europe$10,977$9,437$9,213Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific4,1314,0753,940Total$15,108$13,512$13,153

Refer to Note 21 "Reportable Business Segment Information" under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for geographic information related to PPG's property, plant and equipment, and for additional geographic information pertaining to sales.



Seasonality

PPG’s income from continuing operations have typically been greater in the second and third quarters and cash flow from operations has been greatest in the fourth quarter due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in PPG’s architectural coatings businesses, the magnitude of which increased in 2013 due to the size of the acquired North American architectural coatings business. Demand for PPG’s architectural coatings products is typically strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home improvement, maintenance and construction activity during the spring and summer months in North America and Europe. This higher activity level results in higher outstanding receivables that are collected in the fourth quarter generating higher fourth quarter cash flow.





Employee Relations

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG during 2013 was about41,400. The Company has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. We observe local customs, legislation and practice in labor relations when negotiating collective bargaining agreements.  There were no significant work stoppages in 2013. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms.  To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on PPG’s operating results. Overall, the Company believes it has good relationships with its employees.



Environmental Matters

PPG is subject to existing and evolving standards relating to protection of the environment. PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning 132 current and former manufacturing sites and offsite waste disposal locations, including 24 sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste disposal locations, each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company has established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

The Company’s experience to date regarding environmental matters leads it to believe that it will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.

In addition to the $310 million currently reserved for environmental remediation efforts, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be approximately $100 million to $200 million. These reasonably possible unreserved losses relate to environmental matters at a number of sites, including about one third each related to: i) additional costs at a former chromium manufacturing plant site and associated sites in Jersey City, N.J. ("New Jersey Chrome") ii) legacy glass sites and iii) a number of other sites, including legacy chemical manufacturing sites.  The loss contingencies related to these sites include significant unresolved issues such as the nature and extent of contamination at these sites and the methods that may have to be employed to remediate them.

Capital expenditures for environmental control projects were $22 million, $12 million and $15 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for such projects in 2014 will be in the range of $15 million to





122013 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






$20 million. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.

In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner, is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates and the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters and our accrued liability for estimated environmental remediation costs.

Public and governmental concerns related to climate change continue to grow, leading to efforts to limit the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions believed to be responsible.  While PPG has operations in many countries, a substantial portion of PPG’s GHG emissions are generated by locations in the U.S., where considerable legislative and regulatory activity has been taking place. PPG has, and will continue to, annually report our global GHG emissions to the voluntary Carbon Disclosure project.

Energy prices and availability of supply continue to be a concern for major energy users. Since PPG’s GHG emissions arise principally from combustion of fossil fuels, PPG has for some time recognized the desirability of reducing energy consumption and GHG generation. Effective energy management practices implemented over the 2006 to 2011 time period led to a 10% reduction in PPG's GHG emissions at the end of 2011.  PPG's total annual energy consumption and GHG emissions was significantly reduced as a result of the separation of its commodity chemicals business in January 2013.

PPG participates in the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) SAVE ENERGY NOW®, BETTER BUILDINGS®, BETTER PLANTS®Program reinforcing the company’s voluntary efforts to significantly reduce its industrial energy intensity. In September 2011, the DOE changed its approach to energy efficiency in the industrial sector and initiated the Better Buildings, Better Plants program. PPG is currently participating in this new program, which sets energy savings targets and provides a suite of educational, training, and technical resources to help meet those targets. Recognizing the continuing importance of this matter, PPG has a senior management group with a mandate to guide the Company’s progress in this area.

In December 2012, the USEPA issued its final Clean Air Act emissions standards for large and small boilers and incinerators that burn fossil fuels known as the Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) regulations. These regulations are aimed at controlling emissions of air toxics requiring that covered facilities achieve compliance within three years. At the time the rules were issued, the principal financial impact to PPG was related to



operations within its former commodity chemicals business which was separated in January 2013.  The remaining 12 PPG facilities that are subject to these regulations have natural    gas-fired boilers, which are subject to minimal regulatory oversight requiring only changes to workplace practices and no capital expenditures for pollution control equipment. The cost impact for PPG's remaining affected facilities is expected to be minimal.PPG’s public disclosure on energy security and climate change can be viewed in our Sustainability Report atwww.ppg.com/sustainabilityor at the Carbon Disclosure Projectwww.cdproject.net.Available InformationThe Company’s website address iswww.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases, including earnings releases, to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s website to the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Reference to the Company’s and SEC’s websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.





2013 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K13








