Item 1. Business

PPG Industries, Inc., incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883, is comprised of six reportable business segments: Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings, Architectural Coatings – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Optical and Specialty Materials, Commodity Chemicals and Glass. Each of the business segments in which PPG is engaged is highly competitive. The diversification of product lines and worldwide markets served tend to minimize the impact on PPG’s total sales and earnings from changes in demand for a particular product line or in a particular geographic area. Refer to Note 24, “Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to our reportable business segments.

On January 28, 2013, PPG completed the separation of its commodity chemicals business and the merger of the subsidiary holding the PPG commodity chemicals business with a subsidiary of the Georgia Gulf Corporation ("Georgia Gulf"). The combined company formed by uniting Georgia Gulf with PPG's former commodity chemicals business is named Axiall Corporation.  PPG holds no ownership interest in Axiall Corporation.  Refer to Note 25, "Separation and Merger Transaction" under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for financial information relating to this transaction.

Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA

PPG is a major global supplier of coatings. The Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments supply coatings for customers in a wide array of end use markets, including industrial equipment, appliances and packaging; factory-finished aluminum extrusions and steel and aluminum coils; marine and aircraft equipment; automotive original equipment; and other industrial and consumer products. In addition to supplying coatings to the automotive original equipment market (“OEM”), PPG supplies refinishes to the automotive aftermarket. PPG also serves commercial and residential new build and maintenance markets by supplying coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive and consists of a few large firms with global presence and many smaller firms serving local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world’s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many smaller regional coatings companies. Product development, innovation, distribution, quality and technical and customer service have been stressed by PPG and have been significant factors in developing an important supplier position by PPG’s coatings businesses comprising the Performance Coatings, Industrial Coatings and Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segments.

The Performance Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the refinish, aerospace, protective and marine and architectural – Americas and Asia Pacific coatings businesses.





The refinish coatings business supplies coatings products for automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings for a wide array of markets and specialty coatings for signs. These products are sold primarily through independent distributors.

The aerospace coatings business supplies sealants, coatings, technical cleaners and transparencies for commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft and transparent armor for military land vehicles. PPG supplies products to aircraft manufacturers and maintenance and aftermarket customers around the world both on a direct basis and through a company-owned distribution network.

The protective and marine coatings business supplies coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures to metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges, rail cars and shipping containers. These products are sold through the company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and directly to customers.

Product performance, technology, quality, distribution and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in these three coatings businesses.

The architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business primarily produces coatings used by painting and maintenance contractors and by consumers for decoration and maintenance of residential and commercial building structures. These coatings are sold under a number of brands. Architectural coatings – Americas and Asia Pacific products are sold through a combination of company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers, and independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for these architectural coatings businesses. In 2012, the architectural coatings-Americas and Asia Pacific business operated about400company-owned stores in North America and about40company-owned stores in Australia.

On December 13, 2012, PPG entered into an agreement to acquire the North American architectural coatings business of Akzo Nobel N.V. in a deal valued at $1.05 billion.  The acquisition, which is currently expected to close in the first half of 2013, includes the acquisition of a number of leading brands and approximately 600 paint stores in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean.  With regard to this pending acquisition, the statutory waiting period prescribed by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, expired on February 1, 2013.  Canadian competition clearance and Investment Canada Act approval remain pending.

The major global competitors of the Performance Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems (former DuPont performance coatings business), BASF Corporation, Hempel A/S, the Jotun Group, Masco Corporation, the Sherwin-Williams Company, Valspar Corporation and GKN plc. The average number of persons employed by the Performance Coatings reportable segment during2012was about12,100.





2012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM  10-K7






The Industrial Coatings reportable segment is comprised of the automotive OEM, industrial and packaging coatings businesses. Industrial, automotive OEM and packaging coatings are formulated specifically for the customers’ needs and application methods.

The industrial and automotive OEM coatings businesses sell directly to a variety of manufacturing companies. PPG also supplies adhesives and sealants for the automotive industry and metal pretreatments and related chemicals for industrial and automotive applications. PPG has established alliances with Kansai Paints and Helios Group to serve certain automotive original equipment manufacturers in various regions of the world. PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Kansai Finishes to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM customers in North America and Europe and PPG owns a 60% interest in PPG Helios Ltd. to serve Russian-based automotive OEM customers in Russia and the Ukraine.

The packaging coatings business supplies coatings and inks to the manufacturers of aerosol, food and beverage containers.

Product performance, technology, cost effectiveness, quality and technical and customer service are major competitive factors in the industrial coatings businesses. The major global competitors of the Industrial Coatings reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems, BASF Corporation, Valspar Corporation and Nippon Paint. The average number of persons employed by the Industrial Coatings reportable segment during2012was about8,600.

PPG has established an alliance with Asian Paints Ltd. to serve customers in India.  PPG and Asian Paints Ltd. each own a 50% interest in Asian PPG Paints to serve global and domestic-based automotive OEM and aftermarket customers in India. In July 2012, PPG expanded the current Asian Paints joint venture and also created a second 50-50 joint venture with Asian Paints.  As part of these changes, PPG gained effective management control of the existing joint venture, while Asian Paints has effective management control of the newly formed joint venture. The existing joint venture expanded its scope to serve India’s industrial liquid, marine, consumer packaging and transportation coatings markets. The newly formed venture serves the protective, industrial powder, industrial containers and light industrial coatings markets.

The Architectural Coatings – EMEA business supplies a variety of coatings under a number of brands and purchased sundries to painting contractors and consumers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Architectural Coatings – EMEA products are sold through a combination of nearly700company-owned stores, home centers, paint dealers, and independent distributors and directly to customers. Price, product performance, quality, distribution and brand recognition are key competitive factors for this business. The major competitors of the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment are Akzo Nobel N.V. and Materis Paints. The average number of persons employed by the Architectural Coatings – EMEA reportable segment during2012was about8,000.





Optical and Specialty Materials

PPG’s Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment is comprised of the optical products and silicas businesses. The primary Optical and Specialty Materials products areTransitions®lenses, optical lens materials and high performance sunlenses; amorphous precipitated silicas for tire, battery separator and other end-use markets; andTeslin®substrate used in such applications as radio frequency identification (RFID) tags and labels, e-passports, drivers’ licenses and identification cards.Transitions®lenses are processed and distributed by PPG’s 51%-owned joint venture with Essilor International ("Essilor"). In the Optical and Specialty Materials businesses, product quality and performance, branding, distribution and technical service are the most critical competitive factors. The major global competitors of the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable segment are Vision-Ease Lens, Carl Zeiss AG, Corning, Inc., Hoya Corporation, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Solvay Group, J.M. Huber and Evonik Industries, A.G. The average number of persons employed by the Optical and Specialty Materials reportable business segment during2012was about2,900.

Commodity Chemicals

Until January 28, 2013, PPG was a producer and supplier of basic chemicals.  The Commodity Chemicals reportable segment produced chlor-alkali and derivative products, including chlorine, caustic soda, vinyl chloride monomer, chlorinated solvents, calcium hypochlorite, ethylene dichloride, hydrochloric acid and phosgene derivatives. Most of these products were sold directly to manufacturing companies in the chemical processing, plastics, including polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”), paper, minerals, metals, agricultural products and water treatment industries. The segment competed with the following other major domestic producers of chlor-alkali products, including The Dow Chemical Company, Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A.,  Occidental Chemical Corporation, Olin Corporation, Shintech, Inc. and Westlake Chemical Corporation.  Price, product availability, product quality and customer service are the key competitive factors. The average number of persons employed by the Commodity Chemicals reportable business segment during2012was about2,000.  On January 28, 2013, PPG completed the separation of its commodity chemicals business and merged the subsidiary holding this business with a subsidiary of Georgia Gulf.

Glass

The Glass reportable business segment is comprised of the flat glass and fiber glass businesses. PPG is a producer of flat glass in North America and a global producer of continuous-strand fiber glass. PPG’s major markets are commercial and residential construction and the wind energy, energy infrastructure, transportation and electronics industries. Most glass products are sold directly to manufacturing companies. PPG manufactures flat glass by the float process and fiber glass by the continuous-strand process.

The bases for competition in the Glass businesses are price, quality, technology and customer service. The Company competes with four major producers of flat glass, including Asahi Glass Company, Cardinal Glass Industries, Guardian





82012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






Industries and NSG Pilkington, and eight major producers of fiber glass throughout the world, including Owens Corning-Vetrotex, Jushi Group, Johns Manville Corporation, CPIC Fiberglass, AGY, NEG, 3B and Taishan Fiberglass. The average number of persons employed by the Glass reportable business segment during2012was about3,200.



Raw Materials and Energy

The effective management of raw materials and energy is important to PPG’s continued success. The Company’s most significant raw materials are epoxy and other resins, titanium dioxide and other pigments, and solvents in the coatings businesses; lenses, sand and soda ash in the Optical and Specialty Materials segment; brine and ethylene in the Commodity Chemicals segment; and sand, clay and soda ash in the Glass segment. Many raw material prices began to inflate during 2010, continued through 2011 and into 2012, reflecting recovering economic demand and decreased supply stemming from capacity idled or closed during the recession. Also, adverse effects of supplier disruptions due to natural disasters placed additional pressure on some of our supply chains leading to higher prices.  Raw material prices began to moderate in the second half of 2012 due to lower global demand, including the effect of lower economic activity in Europe.

Coatings raw materials include both organic, primarily petroleum based, materials and inorganic materials, including titanium dioxide, and generally comprise 70-to-80% of cost of goods sold in most coatings formulations and represent PPG’s single largest production cost component.  PPG input prices inflated further in the first half of 2012, and then, in the second half of the year, moderated modestly from the year's peak levels.  The largest inflationary impact was from titanium dioxide pigments, with year-over-year reductions in the cost of various petrochemical-based materials partially offsetting those increases.  Raw material costs for our coatings businesses increased nearly $725 million due to inflation during the three year period ended December 31, 2012.  The inflation rate for 2012 was low single-digit percentages.

Energy is a significant production cost in the Commodity Chemicals and Glass segments, and our primary energy cost is natural gas. PPG has historically purchased 60-to-70 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs) of natural gas each year. Inclusive of the impact of PPG’s natural gas hedging activities, PPG’s 2012 natural gas unit cost decreased35%in the U.S. compared to 2011, reflecting continued higher natural gas supply stemming from the success of shale gas drilling. The separation of PPG's commodity chemicals business greatly reduced PPG's natural gas exposure, with annual purchases now expected to range from 10-to-20 trillion BTUs per year. In our Commodity Chemicals segment, we also experienced lower average ethylene unit costs, compared to 2011. Lower ethane feedstock values, partially due to the expansion of shale gas production, was the main driver of an approximate 13% decline in our average unit cost of ethylene.  The separation of PPG's commodity chemicals business also eliminated PPG's direct exposure with respect to the volatility of ethylene prices.



We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals that impact or could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards.

In 2006, the European Union (“EU”) member states adopted new comprehensive chemical registration legislation known as “REACH” (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals). REACH applies to all chemical substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of one metric ton or more annually and will require the registration of approximately 30,000 chemical substances with the European Chemicals Agency. REACH requires the registration of these substances, entailing the filing of extensive data on their potential risks to human health and the environment. Registration activities are occurring in three phases over an 11-year period, based on tonnage and level of concern. The first registration deadline was in 2010 with subsequent phases ending in 2013 and 2018. In the case of chemicals with a high level of concern, the regulation calls for progressive substitution unless no alternative can be found; in these cases, authorization of the chemicals will be required.





92012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






PPG established a dedicated organization to manage REACH implementation. We have continued to review our product portfolio, worked closely with our suppliers to assure their commitment to register substances in our key raw materials and started registration of substances that PPG manufactures or imports as raw materials. We will continue to work with our suppliers to understand the future availability and viability of the raw materials we use in our production processes.

Compliance with the REACH legislation will result in increased costs related to the registration process, product testing and reformulation, risk characterization and participation in Substance Information Exchange Forums (“SIEFs”) required to coordinate registration dossier preparation. PPG identified 10 substances that required registration in 2010 and engaged with other key companies through SIEFs to develop the required registration dossiers. Actual costs for substance registration were not significant in 2010 through 2012, due primarily to fewer substances requiring registration than originally anticipated. The costs for 2013 and 2018 registrations and potential additional future testing in support of 2010 registrations are currently unclear; however, our current estimate of the total spend during 2013-2018 has been lowered to a range of $5 million to $10 million. We anticipate that some current raw materials and products will be subject to the REACH authorization process and believe that we will be able to demonstrate adequate risk management for the use and application of the majority of such substances.

Changes to chemical control regulations have been proposed or implemented in many countries beyond the EU, including China, Canada, the United States, and Korea. Because implementation of many of these programs has not been finalized, the financial impact cannot be estimated at this time. We anticipate chemical control regulations will continue to increase globally, and we have implemented programs to track and comply with the regulations.



Research and Development

Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success throughout its history. Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities, were$470 million, $445 million and $408 million during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These costs totaled approximately3%of sales in each year of the period from 2010 to 2012. PPG owns and operates several facilities to conduct research and development relating to new and improved products and processes. Additional process and product research and development work is also undertaken at many of the Company’s manufacturing plants. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs effectively, we operate a global competitive sourcing laboratory in China. We have obtained government funding of a small portion of the Company’s research efforts, and we will continue to pursue government funding. Because of the Company’s broad array of products and customers, PPG is not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.



The Company seeks to optimize its investment in research and development to create new products to drive profitable growth. We align our product development with the macro trends in the end-use markets we serve and leverage core technology platforms to develop products for unmet market needs. Our history of successful technology introductions is based on a commitment to an efficient and effective innovation process and disciplined portfolio management.



Patents

PPG considers patent protection to be important. The Company’s reportable business segments are not materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. PPG earned$51 millionin 2012,$55 millionin 2011 and$58 millionin 2010 from royalties and the sale of technical know-how.



Backlog

In general, PPG does not manufacture its products against a backlog of orders.  Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to projections of future demand and the level of incoming orders.



Non-U.S. Operations

PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Our sales generated by products sold in the developed and emerging regions of the world over the past three years are summarized below:(millions)Sales201220112010United States, Canada, Western Europe$11,031$10,844$9,837Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific4,1694,0413,586Total$15,200$14,885$13,423



Seasonality

PPG’s earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and cash flow from operations is greatest in the fourth quarter due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in PPG’s architectural coatings businesses. Demand for PPG’s architectural coatings products is typically strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home improvement, maintenance and construction activity during the spring and summer months in North America and Europe. This higher activity level results in higher outstanding receivables that are collected in the fourth quarter generating higher fourth quarter cash flow.





102012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K








Employee Relations

The average number of persons employed worldwide by PPG atDecember 31, 2012was39,200. The Company has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on PPG’s operating results. Overall, the Company believes it has good relationships with its employees.



Environmental Matters

PPG is subject to existing and evolving standards relating to protection of the environment. Capital expenditures for environmental control projects were $12 million, $15 million and $16 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. It is expected that expenditures for such projects in 2013 will be in the range of $10-$15 million, excluding the recently separated commodity chemicals business. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.

In March of 2011, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) proposed amendments to the national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for mercury emissions from mercury cell chlor-alkali plants known as Mercury Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Mercury MACT”). USEPA’s proposed amendments would require improvements in work practices to reduce fugitive emissions and would result in reduced levels of mercury emissions while still allowing the mercury cell facilities to continue to operate. Prior to the separation of its commodity chemicals business, PPG operated a 200 ton-per-day mercury cell production unit at the Natrium, W.Va. facility. This unit constituted approximately 4% of PPG’s total chlor-alkali production capacity.  The Mercury MACT has no impact on any other PPG facility.

Separately, the Natrium, W.Va facility discharges its wastewater into the Ohio River pursuant to a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit issued by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (“WVDEP”). Because it discharges into the Ohio River, the NPDES permit terms must conform to pollution control standards for the Ohio River set by the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission (“ORSANCO”). On October 12, 2012, ORSANCO granted PPG's request for a variance which will allow the Natrium, W.Va. facility to continue to have a mixing zone for its discharge of mercury for a five-year period after ORSANCO's prohibition on mixing zones takes effect on October 16, 2013.

PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning 108 current and former manufacturing sites and offsite waste disposal locations, including 20 sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste disposal locations,



each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company has established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, PPG had reserves for estimated environmental remediation costs totaling$332 millionand $226 million, respectively, of which$101 millionand $59 million, respectively, were classified as current liabilities. Pretax charges against income for environmental remediation costs in 2012, 2011 and 2010 totaled$167 million, $16 million and $21 million, respectively. Cash outlays related to such environmental remediation aggregated$66 million, $59 million and $34 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The impact of foreign currency translation increased the liability by$2 millionin 2012 and decreased the liability by $3 million in 2011. As a result of the allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the liability for environmental contingencies was increased by$3 millionin 2012.  Environmental remediation of a former chromium manufacturing plant site and associated sites in Jersey City, N.J. (which we refer to as “New Jersey Chrome”) represents the major part of our existing reserves. Included in the amounts mentioned above were$221 millionand $129 million in reserves at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, associated with all New Jersey chromium sites.

The Company’s experience to date regarding environmental matters leads it to believe that it will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.

The Company continues to analyze, assess and remediate the environmental issues associated with New Jersey Chrome. In connection with the preparation of a final draft soil remedial action work plan and cost estimate that was initially required to be submitted to the NJDEP in May 2012 but now will be submitted in 2013, the Company compiled updated information about the sites that was used to develop a new estimate of the cost to remediate these sites which resulted in a charge against earnings of $145 million in the first quarter of 2012.   A charge of $165 million for the estimated costs of remediating these sites was recorded in the third quarter of 2006.  Information will continue to be generated from the ongoing groundwater remedial investigation activities related to New Jersey Chrome and will be incorporated into a final draft remedial action work plan for groundwater expected to be submitted to NJDEP in the second quarter of 2014.

These charges for estimated environmental remediation costs in 2006 and 2012 were significantly higher than PPG’s historical range. Excluding 2006 and 2012, pre-tax charges





2012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM  10-K11






against income for environmental remediation have ranged between $10 million and $35 million per year for the past 16 years. Charges in 2013 are expected to again be within this historical range.  In addition to the amounts currently reserved, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $100 million to $275 million. This range of reasonably possible unreserved loss relates to environmental matters at a number of sites including each of the following; i) additional costs at New Jersey Chrome, which represent about one third of this potential range, ii)  a number of other locations, including legacy glass and chemical manufacturing sites and iii) the Calcasieu River Estuary and two operating plant sites in the Company's former commodity chemicals business. The loss contingencies related to these sites include significant unresolved issues such as the nature and extent of contamination at these sites and the methods that may have to be employed to remediate them.

All known and currently reserved environmental liabilities associated with the commodity chemicals business were transferred with the separation of this business from PPG and subsequent merger of the subsidiary holding the PPG commodity chemicals business with a subsidiary of Georgia Gulf.  The newly merged company, Axiall, will assume responsibility for these liabilities.   As a result of this transaction, PPG will retain responsibility for potential environmental liabilities that may result from future Natural Resource Damage claims and any potential tort claims at the Calcasieu River Estuary associated with activities and historical operations of the Lake Charles, La. facility.  PPG will additionally retain responsibility for all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from sediment contamination in the Ohio River resulting from historical activities and operations at the Natrium, W.Va. facility.

In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner, is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates and the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters and our accrued liability for estimated environmental remediation costs.

Public and governmental concerns related to climate change continue to grow, leading to efforts to limit the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions believed to be responsible.  While PPG has operations in many countries, a substantial portion of PPG’s GHG emissions are generated by locations in the U.S., where considerable legislative and regulatory activity has been taking place.

As a result of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in April 2007 declaring that GHGs are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act, USEPA proposed and later finalized in December 2009 an Endangerment Finding that GHG emissions “threaten public health and welfare of current and future generations”. Based on the Endangerment Finding, the USEPA proposed



then finalized new, “tailored” thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act New Source Review and Title V operating permit programs would be required for new or existing industrial facilities. These rules impose new permit requirements on PPG facilities emitting more than 100,000 tons of GHGs per year as well as on new equipment installations that will emit more than 75,000 tons of GHGs per year. The U.S. federal government has committed to a 17% economy-wide emission reduction target below 2005 levels by 2020. These rules were upheld by a Federal Appeals court in 2012 in a challenge filed by industry.  To date, no PPG facility in the U.S. has triggered either the 100,000 ton or 75,000 ton per year permit requirement thresholds.  PPG has, and will continue to, annually report our global GHG emissions to the voluntary Carbon Disclosure project.

PPG participates in the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) Save Energy Now LEADER Program reinforcing the company’s voluntary efforts to significantly reduce its industrial energy intensity. In September 2011, the DOE changed its approach to energy efficiency in the industrial sector and initiated the Better Buildings, Better Plants program. PPG is currently participating in this new program, which sets energy savings targets and provides a suite of educational, training, and technical resources to help meet those targets. Recognizing the continuing importance of this matter, PPG has a senior management group with a mandate to guide the Company’s progress in this area.

In December 2012, after lengthy challenges and re-proposals, the USEPA issued its final Clean Air Act emissions standards for large and small boilers and incinerators that burn fossil fuels known as the Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) regulations. These regulations





122012 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K






are aimed at controlling emissions of air toxics and will regulate emissions of particulate matter, carbon monoxide, mercury, dioxin and hydrogen chloride from boilers, requiring that covered facilities achieve compliance within three years. There are 13 PPG facilities that are subject to these regulations.  The facility most impacted by these regulations is the 115 megawatt coal fired power plant at the Natrium, W. Va. chlor-alkali facility that was part of the commodity chemicals business that was separated as of January 28, 2013.  The other 12 facilities have natural gas-fired boilers which are subject to minimal regulatory oversight in the final rule, requiring only routine and reasonable maintenance and recordkeeping and need no add-on pollution control equipment.  Facilities must achieve compliance with these regulations by early 2016.  The cost impact for PPG's remaining affected facilities is not expected to be significant.

PPG’s public disclosure on energy security and climate change can be viewed in our Sustainability Report atwww.ppg.com/sustainabilityor at the Carbon Disclosure Projectwww.cdproject.net.



Available Information

The Company’s website address iswww.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases, including earnings releases, to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s website to the SEC’s website,www.sec.gov.Reference to the Company’s and SEC’s websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.



