ITEM 1.Business

General

EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized in 1985, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, EOG), explores for, develops, produces and markets natural gas and crude oil primarily in major producing basins in the United States of America (United States), Canada, The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (Trinidad), the United Kingdom, The People's Republic of China (China) and, from time to time, select other international areas.  EOG's principal producing areas are further described in "Exploration and Production" below.  EOG's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, through EOG's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  EOG's website address is http://www.eogresources.com.



At December 31, 2009, EOG's total estimated net proved reserves were 10,776 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe), of which 8,898 billion cubic feet (Bcf) were natural gas reserves and 220 million barrels (MMBbl), or 1,317 Bcfe, were crude oil and condensate reserves and 93 MMBbl, or 561 Bcfe, were natural gas liquids reserves (see Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements).  At such date, approximately 75% of EOG's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) were located in the United States, 16% in Canada and 9% in Trinidad.  As of December 31, 2009, EOG employed approximately 2,100 persons, including foreign national employees.



EOG's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on investment of capital by controlling operating and capital costs.  This strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production on a cost-effective basis.  EOG focuses on the cost-effective utilization of advances in technology associated with the gathering, processing and interpretation of three-dimensional (3-D) seismic data, the development of reservoir simulation models, the use of new and/or improved drill bits, mud motors and mud additives, horizontal drilling, formation logging techniques and reservoir stimulation/completion methods. These advanced technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout EOG to reduce the risks associated with all aspects of oil and gas exploration, development and exploitation.  EOG implements its strategy by emphasizing the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low cost reserves.  EOG also makes select strategic
 acquisitions that result in additional economies of scale or land positions which provide significant additional prospects.  Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure that is consistent with prudent and safe operations is also an important goal in the implementation of EOG's strategy.



With respect to information on EOG's working interest in wells or acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying "gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by EOG's working interest in the wells or acreage.



Business Segments

EOG's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and production related.



Exploration and ProductionUnited States and Canada Operations

EOG's operations are focused on most of the productive basins in the United States and Canada.



At December 31, 2009, 81% of EOG's net proved United States and Canada reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) were natural gas and 19% were crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids.  Substantial portions of these reserves are in long-lived fields with well-established production characteristics.  EOG believes that opportunities exist to increase production through continued development in and around many of these fields and through the utilization of the applicable technologies described above.  EOG also maintains an active exploration program designed to extend fields and add new trends and resource plays to its broad portfolio.  The following is a summary of significant developments during 2009 and certain 2010 plans for EOG's United States and Canada operations.




United States.



Throughout the Rocky Mountain area, EOG expanded its acreage position with the addition of prospective crude oil acreage in 2009.  EOG now holds approximately 1.5 million net acres in the Rocky Mountain area, including over 500,000 net acres throughout the Williston Basin of North Dakota and Montana available for exploration in the Bakken and Three Forks plays.  In addition, EOG also holds acreage in the Rocky Mountain area relating to certain potential exploration and development prospects which EOG is currently evaluating.  During 2009, EOG drilled 106 net wells in the Uinta Basin, Utah, and 57 net wells in the Williston Basin.  Production from the Rocky Mountain area increased 14% primarily through increased liquids production.  The net average production for 2009 was 240 MMcfd of natural gas and 34.7 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids.  In December 2009, EOG and a third party exchanged certain natural gas related properties in the Rocky Mountain area. In 2010
, EOG intends to increase its activity level in the Bakken and Three Forks plays in the Williston Basin by drilling over 95 net wells.  EOG will have limited drilling activity on its core natural gas assets within the Rocky Mountain area and will primarily focus on exploiting and expanding the oil resource plays.



In 2009, EOG continued to expand its activities in the Mid-Continent area with continued growth and extension of the Western Anadarko Basin and Hugoton Deep core areas.  For the year, EOG averaged net production of 76 MMcfd of natural gas and 5.3 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids.  Total crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids volumes increased 15% in 2009 compared to 2008.  In Southwest Kansas, EOG continued its active drilling program focused on high potential Morrow and St. Louis targets in a broad area, which is part of the 900,000 gross acres EOG controls in the Hugoton Deep play.  In the Western Anadarko Basin, EOG continued its successful horizontal exploitation of the Cleveland sandstone, drilling 13 net wells with per well initial production rates of approximately 500 barrels of oil per day.  Since 2002, EOG has drilled over 200 net wells in this play and holds approximately 65,000 acres throughout the trend.  EOG significantly expanded its acr
eage position in the Western Anadarko Basin during 2009 with the addition of over 100,000 net acres focused on the extension of core plays, as well as multiple new liquids-rich plays which will be exploited in 2010 and beyond.  EOG holds approximately 580,000 net acres in the Mid-Continent area.



In the South Texas area, EOG experienced continued success in 2009, drilling 54 net wells.  During 2009, net production averaged 204 MMcfd of natural gas and 7.5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids.  EOG's activity was focused in Webb, Zapata, San Patricio, Duval and Matagorda counties, where EOG drilled successful wells in the Lobo, Roleta, Frio and Wilcox trends.  EOG continued to focus on horizontal drilling, targeting the Perdido, Wilcox and Lobo sands.  EOG also continued directional drilling under Nueces Bay.  EOG drilled a deeper pool wildcat discovery under Indian Point, along with additional development drilling, with seven wells drilled yielding over 34 Bcfe net proved reserves.  EOG plans to significantly increase drilling activity in the South Texas area in 2010.  Approximately 168 net wells are planned during 2010 for South Texas.  EOG holds approximately 600,000 net acres in the South Texas area.  In addition, EOG holds acreage in the South Texas are
a relating to certain potential exploration and development prospects which EOG is currently evaluating.



Also during 2009, EOG participated in 25 net wells and implemented five Wolfcamp waterfloods in the Permian Basin area.  The wells drilled throughout the Permian Basin tested the Bone Spring, Wolfcamp, Permo-Penn and other objectives.  Production for the year averaged approximately 69 MMcfd of natural gas and 7.1 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids.  EOG acquired approximately 230 square miles of 3-D data and added 100,000 net acres during 2009.  EOG holds approximately 490,000 net acres throughout the Permian Basin area.  In 2010, EOG plans to continue the development of existing Permian Basin plays, acquire acreage positions in new plays and test new play concepts.






In the Upper Gulf Coast area, EOG averaged 144 MMcfd of natural gas and 2.8 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids production in 2009.  EOG drilled 31 net wells with 10 net wells being Travis Peak vertical stacked pays and Cotton Valley horizontal development wells located in East Texas and North Louisiana.  A major growth driver for EOG in this area is the expanded Haynesville and Bossier Shale program that has grown from drilling two wells in late 2008 to 13 wells in 2009.  EOG expects to drill 48 net Haynesville and Bossier Shale wells in 2010 on the 159,000 net acres held in the play.  Mississippi development focused on a combined crude oil and natural gas discovery at Mechanicsburg Field, where EOG drilled eight wells.  In the fourth quarter of 2009, EOG acquired 39,500 net unproved acres in Nacogdoches County, Texas, within the Haynesville and Bossier Shale formations and expects to acquire up to an additional 7,500 net acres as part of the same transaction dur
ing the first quarter of 2010. EOG holds approximately 370,000 net acres in the Upper Gulf Coast area.



During 2009, EOG continued the development of its Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale acreage, drilling a total of three gross vertical and 17 gross horizontal wells (13 net wells).  Nine of the wells have been completed with most of those awaiting final construction of gas gathering system infrastructure to commence sales.  The gas gathering systems being constructed by EOG should be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2010.  Several wells tested at 24-hour rates in excess of 5 MMcfd.  In 2010, EOG will continue to develop the Marcellus Shale, drilling an estimated 25 to 30 net wells.  Most of the wells will be in the Seneca Joint Venture area in Clearfield, Elk and McKean Counties, Pennsylvania, where EOG holds a 50% working interest.  Several wells are also planned for Bradford County, Pennsylvania, where EOG holds a 100% working interest.  EOG currently holds approximately 225,000 net acres in the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale.



At December 31, 2009, EOG held approximately 4,185,000 net undeveloped acres in the United States.



During 2009, EOG continued the expansion of its gathering and processing activities in the Barnett Shale play of North Texas and the Bakken play of North Dakota.  In 2009, EOG placed into operation one 40 MMcfd natural gas processing plant in the Barnett Combo play of North Texas, and began construction of a second 40 MMcfd processing unit which is expected to begin operation during the second quarter of 2010.  EOG also expanded its gathering system in the Barnett Combo play to transport production to its processing plant and continued expansion of its gathering system in the Bakken play.



In the North Dakota Bakken play, EOG constructed and placed in service during February 2010 a 76-mile, 12-inch diameter "dense phase" natural gas gathering pipeline connecting its Stanley, North Dakota, gathering system with the Alliance Pipeline, near Upham, North Dakota.  The Alliance Pipeline transports natural gas to the Chicago, Illinois, area.  EOG also replaced its 20 MMcfd natural gas liquids processing plant, located near Stanley, North Dakota, with an 80 MMcfd refrigeration oil/condensate removal plant.  In combination, these projects will allow EOG to more efficiently transport the associated natural gas and natural gas liquids production from its Bakken oil wells.  At year-end 2009, the combined throughput of these systems was 15 MMcfd of natural gas.



Additionally, in support of its operations in the Bakken play, EOG constructed a crude oil loading facility near Stanley, North Dakota, designed to load crude oil into 100-car unit trains for transport to Stroud, Oklahoma.  At Stroud, Oklahoma, EOG constructed a crude oil offloading facility and a pipeline to transport the crude oil to the Cushing, Oklahoma, trading hub.  The first shipment of crude oil through these facilities occurred at year-end 2009.  When fully operational, the capacity of these facilities is expected to allow transport of approximately 60,000 barrels per day of Bakken crude oil.



EOG expects to continue expanding its gathering and processing facilities to accommodate the drilling activity in the Barnett Shale and Bakken plays.  The North Texas systems total over 70 miles of 8-inch, 10-inch and 20-inch diameter pipe, while the North Dakota system totals 290 miles of 8-inch and 12-inch pipe.




Canada.



At December 31, 2009, EOGRC held approximately 1,660,000 net undeveloped acres in Canada.





Operations Outside the United States and Canada



EOG has operations in Trinidad, the United Kingdom North Sea and East Irish Sea and the China Sichuan Basin, and is evaluating additional exploration, development and exploitation opportunities in those and other international areas.



Trinidad



holds an 80% working interest in the South East Coast Consortium (SECC) Block offshore Trinidad, except in the Deep Ibis area in which EOG's working interest decreased as a result of a third-party farm-out agreement;holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the Pelican field and its related facilities;holds a 100% working interest in a production sharing contract with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for each of the Modified U(a) Block, Modified U(b) Block and Block 4(a);owns a 12% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited (CNCL); andowns a 10% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Nitrogen (2000) Unlimited (N2000).



Several fields in the SECC Block, Modified U(a) Block and Modified U(b) Block as well as the Pelican Field have been developed and are producing.  In the Pelican field, EOG drilled a successful exploratory well in late January 2010 that is expected to begin producing by the end of the first quarter of 2010.  In Block 4(a), EOG installed offshore facilities and plans to drill development wells to supply natural gas under a contract with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago (NGC) if the North Eastern Offshore (NEO) pipeline is installed by NGC.  The NEO pipeline has not been completed, and EOG plans to source the natural gas for this contract from its existing fields until the NEO pipeline is completed.  Sales under the contract commenced on January 1, 2010.  Given EOG's current level of equity ownership in CNCL and N2000 and its ability to exercise significant influence over certain material actions, it accounts for these investments using the equity method.  During 2009, EOG
 recognized equity income of $0.5 million and received cash dividends of $3 million from CNCL and recognized equity income of $3 million and received cash dividends of $4 million from N2000.



Natural gas from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to NGC or its subsidiary.  Crude oil and condensate from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago.



In 2009, EOG's average net production from Trinidad was 273 MMcfd of natural gas and 3.1 MBbld of crude oil and condensate.



At December 31, 2009, EOG held approximately 156,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.



United Kingdom.




In 2003, EOGUK acquired a 30% non-operating working interest in a portion of Blocks 53/1 and 53/2.  These blocks are also located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.  Since November 2003, three successful exploratory wells have been drilled in the Arthur field, with production commencing in January 2005.  There is currently one remaining producing well in the Arthur field and this well is expected to cease production during the first half of 2010.



In 2006, EOGUK participated in the drilling and successful testing of the Columbus prospect in the Central North Sea Block 23/16f.  A successful Columbus prospect appraisal well was drilled during the third quarter of 2007.  The field operator expects to submit a revised field development plan to the United Kingdom (U.K.) Department of Energy and Climate Change during the second quarter of 2010 and anticipates receiving approval of this plan in late 2010.  The operator and partners are currently evaluating an export route for production from the project.



During the third quarter of 2009, EOG completed a farm-in agreement with owners of the Central North Sea Block 15/30a Area AB.  In December 2009, EOG, as operator, drilled an exploratory well on this prospect, which was declared a dry hole in January 2010.



During the second quarter of 2009, EOGUK drilled two exploratory wells in the East Irish Sea.  Well 110/14b-7, in which EOGUK has a 70% working interest, was a dry hole while well 110/12-6, in which EOGUK has 100% working interest, was an oil discovery and was designated the Conwy field. Engineering studies were initiated with an intent to submit a field development plan to the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change during the first quarter of 2010.  A rig has been contracted and has begun drilling two further exploratory wells offsetting the Conwy field.  The first of the wells was declared a dry hole in February 2010.  Results are expected for the second well by the end of the first quarter of  2010.  The licenses for the East Irish Sea were awarded to EOGUK in 2007.



In 2009, production averaged 7 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in the United Kingdom.



At December 31, 2009, EOG held approximately 277,000 net undeveloped acres in the United Kingdom.



China.In July 2008, EOG acquired rights from ConocoPhillips in a Petroleum Contract covering the Chuanzhong Block exploration area in the Sichuan Basin, Sichuan Province, China.  In October 2008, EOG obtained the rights to shallower zones on the acreage acquired.



During the second quarter of 2009, EOG completed a monitoring well and in the third quarter of 2009, drilled a horizontal well, which will be completed and tested during the first quarter of 2010.  During the third quarter of 2009, EOG drilled a second monitoring well to evaluate one of the shallower zones and is currently drilling a second horizontal well that is expected to be completed during the third quarter of 2010.



In 2009, production averaged 8 million cubic feet equivalent per day of natural gas, net, in China.



At December 31, 2009, EOG held approximately 130,000 net acres in China.



Other International.



Marketing

Wellhead Marketing.



In 2009, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on the United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinidad is expected to remain the same in 2010.




In 2009, over 90% of the wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom were sold on the spot market.  The remaining volumes were sold by means of forward contracts.  The 2010 marketing strategy for the wellhead natural gas volumes in the United Kingdom is to sell all natural gas on the spot market.



In 2009, all of the wellhead natural gas volumes from China were sold under a contract with prices based on the purchaser's pipeline sales prices to various local market segments.  The pricing mechanism for the contract in China is expected to remain the same in 2010.



Substantially all of EOG's wellhead crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids are sold under various terms and arrangements based on prevailing market prices.



In certain instances, EOG purchases and sells third-party natural gas production in order to balance firm transportation capacity with production in certain areas.



During 2009, no single purchaser accounted for 10% or more of EOG's natural gas, crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids revenues.  EOG does not believe that the loss of any single purchaser would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.




Wellhead Volumes and Prices



The following table sets forth certain information regarding EOG's wellhead volumes of, and average prices for, natural gas per thousand cubic feet (Mcf), crude oil and condensate per barrel (Bbl) and natural gas liquids per Bbl.  The table also presents natural gas equivalent volumes which are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil and condensate or natural gas liquids for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.



Year Ended December 31200920082007Natural Gas Volumes (MMcfd)(1)United States1,1341,162971Canada224222224Trinidad273218252Other International(2)141723Total1,6451,6191,470Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States47.939.524.6Canada4.12.72.4Trinidad3.13.24.1Other International(2)0.10.10.1Total55.245.531.2Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States22.515.011.1Canada1.11.01.1Total23.616.012.2Natural Gas Equivalent Volumes (MMcfed)(3)United States1,5561,4901,184Canada256244245Trinidad291237276Other International(2)151724Total2,1181,9881,729Total Bcfe(3)773.0727.6631.3Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf)(4)United States$3.72$8.22$6.27Canada3.857.646.25Trinidad1.733.582.71Other International(2)4.348.186.19Composite3.427.515.65Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$54.42$87.68$68.85Canada57.7289.7065.27Trinidad50.8592.9069.84Other International(2)53.0799.3066.84Composite54.4688.1868.69Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$30.03$53.33$47.63Canada30.4954.7744.54Composite30.0553.4247.36

(1)	Million cubic feet per day or thousand barrels per day, as applicable.(2)	Other International includes EOG's United Kingdom operations and, effective July 1, 2008, EOG's China operations.(3)	Million cubic feet equivalent per day or billion cubic feet equivalent, as applicable; includes natural gas, crude oil andcondensate and natural gas liquids.(4)	Dollars per thousand cubic feet or per barrel, as applicable.




Competition



EOG competes with major integrated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market natural gas and crude oil.  Moreover, many of EOG's competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those EOG possesses and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which EOG may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, EOG may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of EOG's larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for natural gas and crude oil, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and 
the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  EOG also faces competition from competing energy sources, such as liquefied natural gas imported into the United States from other countries, and, to a lesser extent, alternative energy sources.



Regulation



United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production.



United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on flaring, require drilling bonds, regulate environmental and safety matters and regulate the calculation and disbursement of royalty payments, production taxes and ad valorem taxes.



A substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Minerals Management Service (MMS), both federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous additional statutory and regulatory restrictions.  Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.



BLM and MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the MMS). Such offshore operations are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including the need for prior MMS approval for exploration, development and production plans; stringent engineering and construction specifications applicable to offshore production facilities; regulations restricting the flaring or venting of production; regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of offshore wells; and the removal of all production facilities.  Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect EOG's interests.



The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1, 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrict
ive conditions on such sales.  Conversely, sales of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.




EOG owns certain natural gas pipelines that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.  State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering operations could be materially and adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.



EOG's gathering operations also may be, or become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations and financial condition, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.



Proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC and the federal and state regulatory commissions and courts.  EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the oil and gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less regulated approach currently being followed by the FERC will continue indefinitely.



Environmental Regulation - United States.



Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations but, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position.



EOG is aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues.  In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, EOG is also aware of legislation proposed by United States lawmakers to reduce GHG emissions.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any such proposed laws, regulations and treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.



EOG supports efforts to understand and address the contribution of human activities to global climate change through the application of sound scientific research and analysis.  Moreover, EOG believes that its strategy to reduce GHG emissions throughout its operations is in the best interest of the environment and a generally good business practice.  EOG will continue to review the risks to its business and operations associated with all environmental matters, including climate change.  In addition, EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where it operates to determine the impact on its operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.




Canadian Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production



It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect EOG's operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size; however, EOG is unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted or how such additional legislation or amendments may affect EOG's operations and financial condition.



In addition, each province has regulations that govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters.  The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of natural gas and crude oil production.  Royalties payable on production from freehold lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee, although production from such lands is also subject to certain provincial taxes and royalties.  Royalties payable on lands that the government has an interest in are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends in part on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced.  From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada have also established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, 
royalty holidays and tax credits for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects.  These incentives generally have the effect of increasing our revenues, earnings and cash flow.



The Alberta Government implemented a new oil and gas royalty framework effective January 2009.  The new framework establishes new royalties for conventional crude oil, natural gas and bitumen that are linked to price and production levels and apply to both new and existing conventional oil and gas activities and oil sands projects.  Under the new framework, the formula for conventional oil and gas royalties uses a sliding rate formula, dependant on the market price and production volumes.  Royalty rates for conventional crude oil range from 0% to 50% and natural gas royalty rates range from 5% to 50%.



The Deep Oil Exploration Program (DOEP) and the Natural Gas Deep Drilling Program (NGDDP) are new programs that began January 1, 2009 in Alberta.  These programs provide upfront royalty adjustments to new wells.  To qualify for royalty adjustments under the DOEP, exploratory oil wells must have a vertical depth greater than 2,000 meters with a government interest and must be spudded after January 1, 2009.  These oil wells qualify for a royalty exemption on either the first 1,000,000 Canadian dollars of royalty or the first 12 months of production, whichever comes first.  The NGDDP applies to natural gas wells producing at a vertical depth greater than 2,500 meters.  The NGDDP will have an escalating royalty credit in line with progressively deeper wells from 625 Canadian dollars per meter to a maximum of 3,750 Canadian dollars per meter.  There are additional benefits for the deepest wells.  Both the DOEP and the NGDDP are five-year programs.  Any wells spudded after December 31, 2013,
 or any wells for which EOG chooses the transition option described below, will not qualify under either program.  No royalty adjustments will be granted under either the DOEP or the NGDDP after December 31, 2018.



In November 2008, the Alberta Government announced that companies drilling new natural gas and conventional crude oil wells at depths between 1,000 and 3,500 meters, which are spudded between November 19, 2008 and December 31, 2013, will have a one-time option of selecting new transitional royalty rates or the new royalty framework rates.  The transition option provides lower royalties in the initial years of a well's life.  For example, under the transition option, royalty rates for natural gas wells will range from 5% to 30%.  The election is made prior to the end of the first calendar month in which the commodity is produced.  All wells using the transitional royalty rates must shift to the new royalty framework rates on January 1, 2014.



EOG expects these regulations of the Alberta Government to have a marginally positive impact on EOG's financial condition and results of operations.




Environmental Regulation - Canada.



Spills and releases from EOG's properties may have resulted, or may result, in soil and groundwater contamination in certain locations.  Any contamination found on, under or originating from the properties may be subject to remediation requirements under Canadian laws.  In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under Canadian laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  In addition, EOG could be held responsible for oil and gas properties in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.



These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and the clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities that may affect the environment.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations, but, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position.





EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any such proposed laws, regulations and treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such enacted laws, regulations and treaties and, if enacted, proposed laws, regulations and treaties, could materially and adversely affect EOG's business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.



Other International Regulation.




Other Matters



Energy Prices.



Including the impact of EOG's 2010 natural gas hedges, based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2010 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $30 million for net income and $45 million for cash flows from operating activities.  EOG's price sensitivity in 2010 for each $1.00 per barrel change in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the related change in natural gas liquids price, is approximately $22 million for net income and $33 million for cash flows from operating activities.  For information regarding EOG's natural gas hedge position as of December 31, 2009, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Risk Management.

All of EOG's natural gas and crude oil activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development and production of, natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and fires, each of which could result in damage to life and/or property.  EOG's onshore and offshore operations are subject to usual customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  EOG's activities are also subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is maintained by EOG against some, but not all, of these risks.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.



In addition, EOG's operations outside of the United States are subject to certain risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and government royalties, unilateral or forced renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments, political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production and currency exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws, regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies.  Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject.




Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 25, 2010) are as follows:



NameAgePositionMark G. Papa63Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; DirectorLoren M. Leiker56Senior Executive Vice President, ExplorationGary L. Thomas60Senior Executive Vice President, OperationsRobert K. Garrison57Executive Vice President, ExplorationFredrick J. Plaeger, II56Senior Vice President and General CounselTimothy K. Driggers48Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997 and President in December 1996, and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to December 1996.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is also a director of Oil States International, Inc., an oilfield service company, where he serves on the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.  From July 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Papa served as a director of the general partner of Magellan Midstream Partners LP, a pipeline and terminal company, where he served as Chairman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Audit and Conflicts Committees.  Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.



Loren M. Leiker was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development in January 2000.  He was previously Senior Vice President, Exploration.  Mr. Leiker joined EOG in April 1989.



Gary L. Thomas was elected Senior Executive Vice President, Operations in February 2007.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998 and was subsequently named Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002.  He was previously Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.



Robert K. Garrison was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in February 2007.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Corpus Christi, Texas office in August 2004 and, prior to such election, was Vice President and General Manger of EOG's Corpus Christi, Texas office.  Mr. Garrison joined EOG in April 1995.



Frederick J. Plaeger, II joined EOG as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in April 2007.  He served as Vice President and General Counsel of Burlington Resources Inc., an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, from June 1998 until its acquisition by ConocoPhillips in March 2006.  Mr. Plaeger engaged exclusively in leadership roles in professional legal associations from April 2006 until April 2007.



Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial and accounting officer.  Mr. Driggers joined EOG in October 1999.


