ITEM 1.Business





General



EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized in 1985, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, EOG), explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas primarily in major producing basins in the United States of America (United States or U.S.), Canada, The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (Trinidad), the United Kingdom (U.K.), The People's Republic of China (China) and, from time to time, select other international areas.  EOG's principal producing areas are further described in "Exploration and Production" below.  EOG's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, through EOG's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  EOG's website address is www.eogresources.com.



At December 31,2014, EOG's total estimated net proved reserves were 2,497 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe), of which 1,140 million barrels (MMBbl) were crude oil and condensate reserves, 467 MMBbl were natural gas liquids (NGL) reserves and 5,343  billion cubic feet, or 890 MMBoe, were natural gas reserves (see Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements).  At such date, approximately 97% of EOG's net proved reserves, on a crude oil equivalent basis, were located in the United States and 3% in Trinidad.  Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using the ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGL to 6.0 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas.



As of December 31,2014, EOG employed approximately 3,000 persons, including foreign national employees.



EOG's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on investment of capital by controlling operating and capital costs and maximizing reserve recoveries.  This strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production on a cost-effective basis.  EOG is focused on cost-effective utilization of advanced technology associated with three-dimensional seismic and microseismic data, the development of reservoir simulation models, the use of improved drill bits, mud motors and mud additives for horizontal drilling, formation evaluation and horizontal completion methods.  These advanced technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout EOG to reduce the risks associated with all aspects of oil and gas exploration, development and exploitation.  EOG implements its strategy by emphasizing the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low-cost reserves.  Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure that is consistent with prudent and safe operations is also an important goal in the implementation of EOG's strategy.



With respect to information on EOG's working interest in wells or acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying "gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by EOG's working interest in the wells or acreage.





Business Segments



EOG's operations are all crude oil and natural gas exploration and production related.  For financial information about our reportable segments (including financial information by segment geographic area), see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For information regarding the risks associated with EOG's foreign operations, see ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.












Exploration and Production



United States and Canada Operations



EOG's operations are focused in most of the productive basins in the United States with a current focus on crude oil and, to a lesser extent, liquids-rich natural gas plays.



At December 31, 2014, on a crude oil equivalent basis, 47% of EOG's net proved reserves in the United States were crude oil and condensate, 19% were NGL and 34% were natural gas.  The majority of these reserves are in long-lived fields with well-established production characteristics.  EOG believes that opportunities exist to increase production through continued development in and around many of these fields and through the utilization of applicable technologies.  EOG also maintains an active exploration program designed to extend fields and add new trends and resource plays to its already broad portfolio.  The following is a summary of significant developments during 2014 and certain 2015 plans for EOG's United States and Canada operations.



United States.The Eagle Ford continues to prove itself as a world-class oil field.  By year-end 2014, the field had produced in excess of one billion barrels of crude oil and condensate, reaching this milestone more quickly than the Bakken.  With approximately 561,000 of the 624,000 total net acres that EOG controls in the prolific oil window, EOG completed 534 net wells in 2014.  EOG continues to be the biggest oil producer in the Eagle Ford play with cumulative gross production in excess of 200 million barrels of crude oil.  Year-end net production approximated 203 thousand barrels per day (MBbld) of crude oil and condensate, an increase of 43% over year-end 2013.  The combination of self-sourced sand, dedicated frac crews and other services along with continual well optimization programs have made this play the centerpiece of EOG's portfolio.  In 2015, EOG expects to complete approximately 345 net wells, continue to improve well productivity and reduce drilling and completion costs.



The Rocky Mountain area continues to provide strong liquids growth.  In 2014, EOG continued infill drilling on its crude oil acreage in the Williston Basin Bakken core, completing 59 net wells.  EOG tested downspacing to 700-foot interwell distances with encouraging results and is in the process of evaluating further downspacing.  In 2014, EOG ramped up its development program in the DJ Basin, completing 21 net wells in the Codell and Niobrara formations.  EOG continued its development program in the Powder River Basin, completing 30 net wells with production from the Parkman and Turner formations.  Net average production for the entire Rocky Mountain area for 2014 was approximately 72 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL, an increase of 18% over the prior year.  In 2015, EOG plans to complete approximately 35 net wells, primarily in the Williston Basin Bakken and, to a lesser extent, in the Powder River Basin.



In 2014, EOG completed 62 net wells in the Permian Basin to develop its liquids-rich Leonard, Wolfcamp, and Second Bone Spring Sand plays.  EOG is well positioned with approximately 80,000 net acres in the Leonard Shale, 140,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale and 90,000 net acres in the Second Bone Spring Sand, all within the Delaware Basin.  Additionally, EOG has approximately 113,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale within the Midland Basin.  Net production in the Permian Basin for 2014 averaged 33 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL, an increase of 43% over 2013.  Net natural gas production increased 57% to 85 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd).  EOG holds approximately 420,000 net acres throughout the Permian Basin.  In 2015, EOG plans to continue the expansion and development, primarily in the Delaware Basin Second Bone Spring Sand, Wolfcamp and Leonard plays by completing approximately 95 net wells.



In the Upper Gulf Coast region, EOG completed 27 net wells during 2014 and net production averaged 82 MMcfd of natural gas and 5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL.  In 2015, EOG will continue to defer dry gas drilling in the Haynesville, work to maintain base production and continue its liquids exploration program.  EOG holds approximately 874,000 net acres in the Upper Gulf Coast region.



In the Mid-Continent area, EOG continued to expand its activities in the Anadarko Basin.  During 2014, EOG averaged net production of 8 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL and 30 MMcfd of natural gas.  EOG continued its successful horizontal exploitation of the Pennsylvanian sandstones in the Anadarko Basin, completing 18 net wells in 2014.  EOG holds approximately 250,000 net acres throughout the trend and plans to complete approximately 10 net crude oil wells in 2015.



During 2014, EOG continued development of its liquids-rich Barnett Shale Combo play in the Fort Worth Basin.  EOG completed 90 net Barnett Combo wells and continued to upgrade the quality of its acreage position and add potential drilling locations in the Barnett Combo core area.  In 2014, net total production in the Barnett Shale averaged approximately 35 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL and approximately 289 MMcfd of natural gas.  For 2015, EOG will focus on maintaining base production.  EOG currently holds approximately 380,000 net acres in the Barnett.














In the South Texas area, EOG completed 22 net wells in 2014.  Net production during 2014 averaged 6 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGL and 83 MMcfd of natural gas. EOG’s activity was focused in San Patricio, Kleberg and Brooks counties.  In 2015, EOG’s activity will target the Frio and Vicksburg trends in South Texas.  EOG has approximately 306,000 net acres and plans to reduce its activity, completing approximately 10 net wells in 2015.



During 2014, EOG focused on maintaining base production in the Marcellus Shale.  Net production for 2014 averaged 30 MMcfd of natural gas.  In  2015, the focus in the Marcellus Shale will be on infrastructure projects that will support additional development in the coming years.  EOG currently holds approximately 208,000 net acres with Marcellus Shale potential, most of which are held as fee or by production.



EOG has agreements with certain crude oil refining companies to deliver an average of 56.5 MBbld, 59.4 MBbld and 10.0 MBbld of crude oil in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, to certain refineries.  EOG intends to fulfill these crude oil delivery obligations with its Eagle Ford production.



At December 31, 2014, EOG held approximately 2.4 million net undeveloped acres in the United States.



During 2014, EOG continued the expansion of its gathering and processing activities in the Eagle Ford in South Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota, the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico and the Barnett Shale in North Texas.  At December 31, 2014, EOG-owned natural gas processing capacity in the Eagle Ford and Barnett Shale was 225 MMcfd and 180 MMcfd, respectively.



In support of its operations in the Williston Basin, EOG continued to utilize its crude oil loading facility near Stanley, North Dakota, to transport its crude oil production and, from time to time, crude oil purchased from third-party producers.  EOG loaded 350 unit trains (each unit train typically consists of 100 cars and has a total aggregate capacity of approximately 70,000 barrels of crude oil) with crude oil for transport to St. James, Louisiana, and Stroud, Oklahoma.



A total of 260 crude oil unit trains carrying EOG production were received at a crude oil unloading facility in St. James, Louisiana, during 2014.  Owned by EOG and NuStar Energy L.P., this facility provides access to one of the key markets in the U.S., where sales are based upon the Light Louisiana Sweet (LLS) crude oil index.  The St. James facility accommodates multiple trains at a single time and has a capacity of approximately 120 MBbld.  EOG's share of that capacity is 100 MBbld.



During 2014, EOG utilized its Stroud, Oklahoma, crude oil unloading facility and pipeline to transport 72unit trainloads of crude oil to the Cushing, Oklahoma, trading hub.  These facilities have the capacity to unload approximately 90 MBbld of crude oil.



EOG believes that its crude-by-rail facilities and logistics provide a competitive advantage, giving EOG the flexibility to direct its crude oil shipments via rail car to the most favorable markets.



Since 2008, EOG has been operating its own sand mine and sand processing plant located in Hood County, Texas, to reduce costs and to help fulfill EOG's sand needs for its well completion operations in the Barnett Shale Combo play.  EOG purchased a second Hood County sand processing plant in 2011, and utilizes that facility to process raw EOG-owned sand from Wisconsin, as needed, to support EOG's well completion activities in several key EOG plays.



In 2014, EOG increased the use of processed sand from its Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, sand plant, which processes sand from multiple EOG-owned mines nearby.



During 2014, EOG shipped 162 sand unit trains of approximately 100 cars each, from various sources, to EOG's sand storage and distribution facility in Refugio, Texas, primarily for use in its Eagle Ford well completions.  Also during 2014, EOG shipped the equivalent of 110 unit trains of processed sand for well completions in other plays.



Canada.During 2014, EOG sold all of its assets in Manitoba and the majority of its assets in Alberta in two separate transactions that closed on or about December 1, 2014.  EOG divested 1.3 million gross acres (1.1 million net), 97 percent of which were in Alberta.  Of the approximate 5,800 producing wells sold, 5,155 were natural gas.



At December 31, 2014, EOG held approximately 183,500 net undeveloped acres in Canada.














Operations Outside the United States and Canada



EOG has operations offshore Trinidad, in the U.K. North Sea and East Irish Sea, and in the China Sichuan Basin and is evaluating additional exploration, development and exploitation opportunities in these and other select international areas.



Trinidad.  EOG, through several of its subsidiaries, including EOG Resources Trinidad Limited,

•holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the South East Coast Consortium (SECC) Block offshore Trinidad, except in the Deep Ibis area in which EOG's working interest decreased as a result of a third-party farm-out agreement;

•holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the Pelican Field and its related facilities;

•holds a 50% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the EMZ Area offshore Trinidad;

•holds a 100% working interest in a production sharing contract with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for each of the Modified U(a) Block, Modified U(b) Block and Block 4(a);

•owns a 12% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited; and

•owns a 10% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Nitrogen (2000) Unlimited.



Several fields in the SECC Block, Modified U(a) Block, Modified U(b) Block, Block 4(a) and the EMZ Area have been developed and are producing natural gas and crude oil and condensate.  Natural gas from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold under various contracts with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago and its subsidiary (NGC).  Crude oil and condensate from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited.  In 2014, EOG's average net production from Trinidad was 363 MMcfd of natural gas and 1.0 MBbld of crude oil and condensate.



In the fourth quarter of2014, EOG initiated a three-net well drilling program in the SECC and Modified U(b) Blocks, completing one well in 2014.  In 2015, EOG expects to drill and complete the remaining two net wells in this program.



In 2015, it is anticipated that EOG's Trinidad operations will supply approximately 480 MMcfd (350 MMcfd, net) of natural gas from its existing proved reserves.  All of the natural gas produced from EOG's Trinidad operations in 2015 is expected to be supplied to NGC pursuant to the requirements of the NGC contracts.



At December 31,2014, EOG held approximately 39,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.



United Kingdom.EOG's subsidiary, EOG Resources United Kingdom Limited (EOGUK), owns a 25% non-operating working interest in a portion of Block 49/16a, located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.  During2014, a limited amount of production continued from the Valkyrie field in this block.



In 2007, EOGUK was awarded a license for two blocks in the East Irish Sea – Blocks 110/7b and 110/12a.  In 2009, EOGUK drilled a successful exploratory well in the East Irish Sea Block 110/12a.  Well 110/12-6, in which EOGUK has a 100% working interest, was an oil discovery and was designated the Conwy field.  During 2012 and 2013, the Conwy production platform and pipelines were installed.  Modifications to the nearby third-party owned Douglas platform, which will be used to process Conwy production, began in 2013 and continued throughout 2014.  First production from the Conwy field is anticipated in the third quarter of 2015.  During the fourth quarter of 2014, EOG recognized a $351 million impairment of the Conwy project as a result of crude oil price declines.



In2014, production averaged less than 0.1 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in the United Kingdom.



At December 31,2014, EOG held approximately 35,000 net undeveloped acres in the United Kingdom.



China.In July 2008, EOG acquired rights from ConocoPhillips in a Petroleum Contract covering the Chuan Zhong Block exploration area in the Sichuan Basin, Sichuan Province, China.  In October 2008, EOG obtained the rights to shallower zones on the acquired acreage.  In 2014, EOG drilled two wells and completed two wells, one of which was originally drilled in 2013.  In 2015, EOG expects to complete the second well that was drilled in 2014 and drill and complete four additional wells.



In2014, production averaged 8.5 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in China.














At December 31,2014, EOG held no net undeveloped acres in China.



Argentina.  In 2011, EOG signed two exploration contracts and one farm-in agreement covering approximately 95,000 net acres in the Neuquén Basin in Neuquén Province, Argentina.  In 2014, EOG completed a vertical well in the Cerro Avispa Block that was drilled in late 2013 and determined the well to be a dry hole.  Also during 2014, EOG participated in the drilling of two wells in the Bajo del Toro Block, both of which were determined to be dry holes.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, EOG recognized an impairment charge of $44 million for the balance of its investment in Argentina.  Management is currently evaluating options for its investment.



Other International.EOG continues to evaluate other select crude oil and natural gas opportunities outside the United States and Canada, primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous crude oil and natural gas reserves have been identified.





Marketing



In2014, EOG's wellhead crude oil and condensate production was sold into local markets or transported either by pipeline, truck or EOG's crude-by-rail assets to downstream markets.  In each case, the price received was based on market prices at that specific sales point or based on the price index applicable for that location.  Major sales points included Cushing, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and other points along the U.S. Gulf Coast.  In2015, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In2014, EOG processed certain of its natural gas production, either at EOG-owned facilities or at third-party facilities, extracting NGL.  NGL were sold at prevailing market prices.  In2015, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In2014, EOG's United States and Canada wellhead natural gas production was sold into local markets or transported by pipeline to downstream markets.  Pricing, based on the spot market and long-term natural gas contracts, was at prevailing market prices.  In2015, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In2014, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinidad are expected to remain the same in2015.



In2014, all wellhead natural gas volumes from the U.K. were sold on the spot market.  The2015marketing strategy for wellhead natural gas volumes from the U.K. is expected to remain the same.  In December 2014, EOG put in place arrangements to market and sell its U.K. wellhead crude oil production, which is anticipated to begin in the second quarter of 2015.



In2014, all wellhead natural gas volumes from China were sold at regulated prices based on the purchaser's pipeline sales volumes to various local market segments.  The pricing mechanism for production in China is expected to remain the same in2015.



In certain instances, EOG purchases and sells third-party crude oil and natural gas in order to balance firm transportation capacity with production in certain areas and to utilize excess capacity at EOG-owned facilities.



During2014, two purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of EOG's total wellhead crude oil and condensate, NGL and natural gas revenues and gathering, processing and marketing revenues.  Both purchasers are in the crude oil refining industry.  EOG does not believe that the loss of any single purchaser would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.





Wellhead Volumes and Prices



The following table sets forth certain information regarding EOG's wellhead volumes of, and average prices for, crude oil and condensate, NGL and natural gas.  The table also presents crude oil equivalent volumes which are determined using the ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGL to 6.0 Mcf of natural gas for each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.










Year Ended December 31201420132012Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States:Eagle Ford178.0122.372.3Barnett9.511.713.0Other94.578.164.0United States282.0212.1149.3Canada5.87.07.0Trinidad1.01.21.5Other International(2)0.10.10.1Total288.9220.4157.9Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States:Eagle Ford24.718.611.2Barnett25.124.225.8Other29.921.518.1United States79.764.355.1Canada0.60.90.8Total80.365.255.9Natural Gas Volumes (MMcfd)(1)United States:Eagle Ford16411565Barnett289305368Other467488601United States9209081,034Canada617695Trinidad363355378Other International(2)989Total1,3531,3471,516Crude Oil Equivalent Volumes (MBoed)(3)United States:Eagle Ford230.0160.294.4Barnett82.786.8100.1Other202.3180.9182.1United States515.0427.9376.6Canada16.720.523.6Trinidad61.560.464.5Other International(2)1.51.31.7Total594.7510.1466.4Total MMBoe(3)217.1186.2170.7










Year Ended December 31201420132012Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$92.73$103.81$98.38Canada86.7187.0586.08Trinidad84.6390.3092.26Other International(2)90.0389.1189.57Composite92.58103.2097.77Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$31.84$32.46$35.41Canada40.7339.4544.13Composite31.9132.5535.54Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf)(4)United States$3.93$3.32$2.51Canada4.323.082.49Trinidad3.653.683.72Other International(2)5.036.455.71Composite3.883.422.83



(1)Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable.

(2)Other International includes EOG's United Kingdom, China and Argentina operations.

(3)Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day or million barrels of oil equivalent, as applicable; includes crude oil and condensate, NGL and natural gas.  MMBoe is calculated by multiplying the MBoed amount by the number of days in the period and then dividing that amount by one thousand.

(4)Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable.  Excludes the impact of financial commodity derivative instruments (see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements).





Competition



EOG competes with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and access to the facilities, equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce, market and transport crude oil and natural gas.  In addition, many of EOG's competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those EOG possesses and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which EOG may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, EOG may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in accessing necessary services, facilities, equipment, materials and personnel.  In addition, many of EOG's larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  EOG also faces competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources.





Regulation



United States Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.Crude oil and natural gas production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation in the United States by federal and state agencies.



United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  In addition, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry.  Such rules and regulations, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas through restrictions on flaring, require surety bonds for various exploration and production operations and regulate the calculation and disbursement of royalty payments (for federal and state leases), production taxes and ad valorem taxes.



A portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in New Mexico, North Dakota, Utah, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and










the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or, in the case of offshore leases (which, for EOG, are de minimis), by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), all federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous additional statutory and regulatory restrictions and, in the case of leases relating to tribal lands, certain tribal environmental and permitting requirements and employment rights regulations.  In addition, the U.S. Department of the Interior (via various of its agencies, including the BLM, the BIA and the Office of Natural Resources Revenues) has certain authority over our payment of royalties, bonuses, fines, penalties, assessments and other revenues related to our federal and tribal oil and gas leases.



BLM, BIA and BOEM leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the BOEM or BSEE).  Under certain circumstances, the BLM, BIA, BOEM or BSEE (as applicable) may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated.  Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect EOG's interests.



The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.  These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales.  Conversely, sales of crude oil and condensate and NGL by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.



EOG owns certain gathering and/or processing facilities in the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota, and the Eagle Ford in South Texas.  State regulation of gathering and processing facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscrimination requirements with respect to the provision of gathering and processing services, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering and processing operations could be materially and adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.



EOG's gathering and processing operations also may be, or become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations and financial condition, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.



EOG also owns crude oil rail loading facilities in North Dakota and Texas, crude oil rail unloading facilities in Oklahoma and Louisiana and crude oil truck unloading facilities in certain of its U.S. plays.  Regulation of such facilities is conducted at the state and federal levels and generally includes various safety, environmental, permitting and packaging/labeling requirements.  Additional regulation pertaining to these matters is considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, any such new regulations might have on its crude-by-rail operations and the transportation of its crude oil production by truck, EOG could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased compliance costs depending on the nature and extent of such future regulatory changes.



Proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC and federal, state and local regulatory commissions, agencies, councils and courts.  EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the oil and gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the approach currently being followed by such legislative bodies and regulatory commissions, agencies, councils and courts will remain unchanged.



Environmental Regulation - United States.EOG is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements.












In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  EOG also could incur costs related to the clean-up of third-party sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such third-party sites.  In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properties in which EOG previously owned or currently owns an interest, but was or is not the operator.  Moreover, EOG is subject to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and may in the future, as discussed further below, be subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing.



Compliance with environmental laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition or results of operations.  It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  However, given that such laws and regulations are subject to change, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Climate Change - United States.  Local, state, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues.  In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, recent U.S. EPA rulemaking may result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the federal Clean Air Act.  EOG supports efforts to understand and address the contribution of human activities to global climate change through the application of sound scientific research and analysis.  Moreover, EOG believes that its strategy to reduce GHG emissions throughout its operations is in the best interest of the environment and is a generally good business practice.



EOG has developed a system that is utilized in calculating GHG emissions from its operating facilities.  This emissions management system calculates emissions based on recognized regulatory methodologies, where applicable, and on commonly accepted engineering practices.  EOG is now reporting GHG emissions for facilities covered under the U.S. EPA's Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule published in October 2009.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.





Hydraulic Fracturing - United States












permitting and disclosure requirements and operating restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.



EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in the United States, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Other International Regulation.EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States are subject to various types of regulations, including environmental regulations, imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs of compliance within those countries.  EOG currently has operations in Canada, Trinidad, the United Kingdom, China and Argentina.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, including those regarding climate change and hydraulic fracturing, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.  EOG will continue to review the risks to its business and operations associated with all environmental matters, including climate change and hydraulic fracturing.  In addition, EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where it operates to determine the impact on its operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.



Other Regulation.EOG has sand mining and processing operations in Texas and Wisconsin, which support EOG's exploration and development operations.  EOG's sand mining operations are subject to regulation by the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (in respect of safety and health matters) and by state agencies (in respect of air permitting and other environmental matters).  The information concerning mine safety violations and other regulatory matters required by Section   1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.104) is included in Exhibit 95 to this report.





Other Matters



Energy Prices.



Including the impact of EOG's 2015 crude oil derivative contracts (exclusive of options) and based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2015 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the estimated change in NGL price, is approximately $63 million for net income and $93 million for cash flows from operating activities.  Including the impact of EOG's 2015 natural gas derivative contracts (exclusive of options) and based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2015 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $15 million for net income and $22 million for cash flows from operating activities.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 16, 2015, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2014, see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements.












Risk Management.EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in prices of crude oil and natural gas.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily price swap, option, swaption, collar and basis swap contracts, as a means to manage this price risk.  See Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 16, 2015, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2014, see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements.



All of EOG's crude oil and natural gas activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development, production and transportation of, crude oil and natural gas, including rig and well explosions, cratering, fires, loss of well control and leaks and spills, each of which could result in damage to life, property and/or the environment.  EOG's onshore and offshore operations are also subject to usual customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  Moreover, EOG's activities are subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.





In addition to the above-described risks, EOG's operations outside the United States are subject to certain risks, including the risk of increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies, expropriation of assets, unilateral or forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts with governmental entities, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.  Please refer to ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject with respect to its operations outside the United States.



Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas natural gas wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996 is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate for the first 120 consecutive months of production.  However, the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred on a well-by-well basis.














Executive Officers of the Registrant



The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 18, 2015) are as follows:

NameAgePositionWilliam R. Thomas62Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerGary L. Thomas65Chief Operating OfficerLloyd W. Helms, Jr.57Executive Vice President, Exploration and ProductionDavid W. Trice44Executive Vice President, Exploration and ProductionTimothy K. Driggers53Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael P. Donaldson52Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary



William R. Thomas was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer effective January 2014.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in June 2004, Executive Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in February 2007 and Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation in February 2011.  He subsequently served as Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration from July 2011 to September 2011, as President from September 2011 to July 2013 and as President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2013 to December 2013.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in January 1979.  Mr. Thomas is EOG's principal executive officer.



Gary L. Thomas was elected Chief Operating Officer in September 2011.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998, Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002, and served as Senior Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2007 to September 2011.  He also previously served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas, office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.



Lloyd W. Helms, Jr. was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production in August 2013.  He was elected Vice President, Engineering and Acquisitions in September 2006, Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Calgary, Alberta, Canada office in March 2008, and served as Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2012 to August 2013.  Mr. Helms joined a predecessor of EOG in February 1981.



David W. Trice was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production in August 2013.  He served as Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office from May 2010 to August 2013.  Prior to that, he served in various geological and management positions at EOG.  Mr. Trice joined EOG in November 1999.



Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999, was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial officer.  Mr. Driggers joined a predecessor of EOG in August 1995.



Michael P. Donaldson was elected Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2012.  He was elected Corporate Secretary in May 2008, and was appointed Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in July 2010.  Mr. Donaldson joined EOG in September 2007.














