ITEM 1.Business



General



EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized in 1985, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, EOG), explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas primarily in major producing basins in the United States of America (United States or U.S.), Canada, The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (Trinidad), the United Kingdom (U.K.), The People's Republic of China (China), the Argentine Republic (Argentina) and, from time to time, select other international areas.  EOG's principal producing areas are further described in "Exploration and Production" below.  EOG's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, through EOG's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  EOG's website address is www.eogresources.com.



At December 31, 2012, EOG's total estimated net proved reserves were 1,811 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe), of which 701 million barrels (MMBbl) were crude oil and condensate reserves, 320 MMBbl were natural gas liquids (NGLs) reserves and 4,740 billion cubic feet, or 790 MMBoe, were natural gas reserves (see Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements).  At such date, approximately 92% of EOG's net proved reserves, on a crude oil equivalent basis, were located in the United States, 6% in Trinidad and 2% in Canada.  Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using the ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas.



As of December 31, 2012, EOG employed approximately 2,650 persons, including foreign national employees.



EOG's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on investment of capital by controlling operating and capital costs and maximizing reserve recoveries.  This strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production on a cost-effective basis.  EOG is focused on cost-effective utilization of advanced technology associated with three-dimensional seismic and microseismic data, the development of reservoir simulation models, the use of improved drill bits, mud motors and mud additives for horizontal drilling, formation evaluation, and horizontal completion methods. These advanced technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout EOG to reduce the risks associated with all aspects of oil and gas exploration, development and exploitation.  EOG implements its strategy by emphasizing the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low-cost reserves.  Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure that is consistent with prudent and safe operations is also an important goal in the implementation of EOG's strategy.



With respect to information on EOG's working interest in wells or acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying "gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by EOG's working interest in the wells or acreage.



Business Segments



EOG's operations are all crude oil and natural gas exploration and production related.  For financial information about our reportable segments (including financial information by segment geographic area), see Note 10 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For information regarding the risks associated with EOG's foreign operations, see ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.










Exploration and Production



United States and Canada Operations



EOG's operations are focused in most of the productive basins in the United States and Canada, with a current focus on crude oil and, to a lesser extent, liquids-rich natural gas plays.



At December 31, 2012, 40% of EOG's net proved reserves in the United States and Canada (on a crude oil equivalent basis) were crude oil and condensate, 19% were NGLs and 41% were natural gas.  Substantial portions of these reserves are in long-lived fields with well-established production characteristics.  EOG believes that opportunities exist to increase production through continued development in and around many of these fields and through the utilization of the applicable technologies.  EOG also maintains an active exploration program designed to extend fields and add new trends and resource plays to its already broad portfolio.  The following is a summary of significant developments during 2012 and certain 2013 plans for EOG's United States and Canada operations.



United States.The Eagle Ford Shale, with well-defined crude oil, wet gas and dry gas trends, has proven to have the best crude oil economics of any of EOG's shale plays.  EOG was one of the first companies to recognize the potential of the Eagle Ford Shale and captured what EOG believes to be the best crude oil acreage position within the play.  With 569,000 of its 639,000 net acres within the crude oil window, EOG is the largest oil producer in the play with year-end volumes of 106 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBoed), net, of which 75% were crude oil and condensate volumes.  EOG's total Eagle Ford production for 2012 increased approximately 150% to 94.4 MBoed from 37.7 MBoed in 2011.



EOG has a large contiguous acreage block that enhances the economics of the play through the efficient development of crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, as well as processing plants to extract NGLs.  EOG is also an anchor shipper on the Enterprise Products Partners L.P. crude oil pipeline which began delivering crude oil from the Eagle Ford into the Texas Gulf Coast refining complex in July 2012.  EOG has established a reputation of being a low-cost operator and, by utilizing its self-sourced sand along with dedicated frac crews and other services, is able to consistently deliver the lowest cost and highest productivity of any operator, further enhancing the economics of the play.  EOG drilled 352 net wells in 2012 in this play and, in 2013, plans to drill approximately 400 net wells with a 26-rig program.



During 2012, EOG continued development of its liquids-rich Barnett Shale Combo play in the Fort Worth Basin.  EOG drilled 190 net Barnett Combo wells and continued to upgrade the quality of its acreage position and add potential drilling locations in the liquids-rich Combo core area.  In 2012, the average net daily total production in the Barnett Shale averaged approximately 38.8 thousand barrels per day (MBbld) of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and approximately 368 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd) of natural gas.  For 2013, EOG will continue to be active in this play with plans to drill an additional 130 net Barnett Shale Combo wells.  With a large acreage position of approximately 430,000 net acres in the Barnett Shale and a history of strong drilling results, EOG expects to continue to be an active driller in the Fort Worth Basin Barnett Shale for many years.



Also during 2012, EOG continued its strong liquids development in the Rocky Mountain area.  In the Williston Basin, where production is approximately 85% crude oil, 62 net wells were drilled in 2012.  EOG has continued its development of the Turner Sand formation in the Powder River Basin, where EOG has drilled 12 net wells, each producing liquids-rich natural gas.  Net average production for the entire Rocky Mountain area for 2012 was 51.8 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs, an increase of 11% over the prior year.  Natural gas production decreased 7% compared to 2011 levels as EOG reduced its activity in the Uinta Basin, drilling 18 net wells during 2012, consistent with its strategy to de-emphasize natural gas drilling.  EOG holds approximately 1.3 million net acres in the Rocky Mountain area and expects to drill 51 net wells in 2013.



In 2012, EOG drilled and participated in 105 net wells in the Permian Basin to develop its liquids-rich Leonard-Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp plays.  EOG is well positioned with approximately 73,000 net acres in the Leonard-Avalon Shale and Bone Spring, and 114,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale, all within the Delaware Basin.  Additionally, EOG has approximately 133,000 net acres in the Wolfcamp Shale within the Midland Basin.  Net production for 2012 averaged 16.5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 44 MMcfd of natural gas.  After divestitures in 2012, EOG holds approximately 450,000 net acres throughout the Permian Basin.  In 2013, EOG plans to continue the expansion and development of the Leonard-Avalon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp plays by drilling 63 net wells.








In the South Texas area, EOG drilled 34 net wells in 2012.  Net production during 2012 averaged 5.2 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 116 MMcfd of natural gas.  EOG's activity was focused in San Patricio, Nueces, Brooks, Kenedy and Kleberg Counties, where EOG will continue to exploit the liquids-rich Frio and Vicksburg sands utilizing vertical and horizontal well applications.



In December 2012, EOG entered into a joint venture with respect to the King Ranch (Ranch) in South Texas.  EOG has assumed the operatorship and has acquired the right to explore on approximately 364,000 gross acres.  EOG has also assumed a 50% working interest in the production on the Ranch as well as 50% of the plugging and abandonment cost liabilities and decommissioning cost liabilities for existing wells and certain facilities on the Ranch.  Current net production from the Ranch is approximately 1.1 MBbld of crude oil and condensate, 1.5 MBbld of NGLs and 28 MMcfd of natural gas.  The exploration potential of the Ranch includes the Frio Anomalina and Vicksburg trends.



In the Upper Gulf Coast region, EOG drilled 19 net wells, and net production averaged 191 MMcfd of natural gas and 0.4 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs in 2012.  The Haynesville and Bossier Shale plays located near the Texas-Louisiana border continue to be core natural gas assets.  EOG controls 160,000 net acres, all within the highly productive areas of these plays.  Due to low natural gas prices, EOG plans to defer drilling in the Haynesville until natural gas economics support the activity.  EOG holds a total of approximately 485,000 net acres in the Upper Gulf Coast region and plans to drill 15 net wells targeting crude oil projects during 2013.



In 2012, EOG continued to expand its activities in the Mid-Continent area with continued growth and extension of its Western Anadarko Basin core area.  For the year, EOG averaged net production of 8.0 MBbld of crude oil and condensate and NGLs and 44 MMcfd of natural gas.  Total liquids volumes increased 14% in 2012 compared to 2011.  In 2012, EOG continued its successful horizontal exploitation of the Cleveland and Marmaton sandstones, drilling 35 net wells.  Since 2002, EOG has drilled over 270 net wells in these plays and holds approximately 125,000 net acres throughout the trend.  In 2013, approximately 35 net wells are planned in order to further exploit these liquids-rich plays.



During the first half of 2012, EOG continued the development of its Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale asset, completing 19 net wells.  EOG reduced its operations in the second half of 2012, dropping from 3 drilling rigs to 1 drilling rig, with activities focused on its Bradford County, Pennsylvania, acreage.  In 2012, net gas production averaged approximately 43 MMcfd, an increase of 24% from 2011.  EOG plans to drill 4 net wells in Bradford County during 2013 for acreage retention.  EOG holds approximately 170,000 net acres in the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale play.



At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 3.0 million net undeveloped acres in the United States.



During 2012, EOG continued the expansion of its gathering and processing activities in the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  EOG-owned natural gas processing capacity at December 31, 2012, in the Barnett Shale and Eagle Ford Shale was 120 MMcfd and 250 MMcfd, respectively.



In April 2012, a newly-constructed crude oil unloading facility in St. James, Louisiana, became operational. Owned by EOG and NuStar Energy L.P., this facility provides access to one of the key premium markets in the U.S., where sales are based upon the Light Louisiana Sweet (LLS) crude oil index.  The St. James facility can accommodate multiple trains at a single time and has a capacity of approximately 120 MBbld.  EOG's share of that capacity is 100 MBbld.



Additionally, in support of its operations in the Williston Basin, EOG continued to increase the utilization of its crude oil loading facility near Stanley, North Dakota, to transport its crude oil production and crude oil purchased from third-party producers.  EOG loaded 322 unit trains (each unit train typically consists of 100 cars and has a total aggregate capacity of approximately 70,000 barrels of crude oil) with crude oil for transport to Stroud, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and certain other destinations in the U.S.










In Stroud, Oklahoma, EOG owns a crude oil unloading facility and a pipeline to transport crude oil to the Cushing, Oklahoma, trading hub.  These facilities have the capacity to unload approximately 90 MBbld of crude oil.



In the South Texas Eagle Ford, EOG continued to use its crude oil loading facility in Harwood, Texas.  At this facility, crude oil is loaded onto unit trains of approximately 70 cars each, with aggregate capacity of approximately 45,000 barrels per train, and shipped to destinations on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  During 2012, a total of 98 rail shipments were made from the Harwood facility.



In support of its Permian Basin operations, EOG commenced shipments from its Barnhart, Texas, crude oil loading facility in mid-2012 and continues to increase shipments from that region to markets on the U.S. Gulf Coast. During 2012, EOG shipped 24 unit trains from this facility.  Each unit train currently consists of approximately 70 cars each, with aggregate capacity of approximately 45,000 barrels per train.



EOG believes that its crude-by-rail facilities provide a distinct competitive advantage, giving it the ability to direct its crude oil shipments via rail car to the most favorable markets.



Since 2008, EOG has been operating its own sand mine and sand processing plant located in Hood County, Texas, helping to fulfill EOG's sand needs for its well completion operations in the Barnett Shale Combo play.



At its second Hood County sand processing plant that was purchased in 2011, EOG continued to process raw EOG-owned sand from Wisconsin.  After final processing at the Hood County facility, the sand is being utilized in completion operations in several key EOG plays.



EOG also increased production of processed sand at its new state-of-the-art Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, sand plant.  The plant processes sand from multiple nearby EOG-owned sand mines.  The first unit train of processed sand was dispatched from Chippewa Falls in January 2012.  During 2012, EOG shipped 70 sand unit trains of approximately 100 cars each to a new EOG sand storage facility in Refugio, Texas.



EOG also installed and commissioned a resin coating plant at the Refugio sand storage facility where sand can also be coated for added strength.  From Refugio, the sand is shipped primarily to the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale. EOG also ships its processed sand to other plays, including the North Dakota Bakken and the Permian Basin.



Canada.EOG conducts operations in Canada through its wholly-owned subsidiary, EOG Resources Canada Inc. (EOGRC), from its offices in Calgary, Alberta.  During 2012, EOGRC continued its focus on horizontal crude oil growth, mainly through its development of the shallow Spearfish formation in southwest Manitoba.  Other drilling activity was directed to acreage retention in its bigger target horizontal natural gas play in the Horn River Basin of British Columbia.  EOG's entire acreage position in the Horn River Basin has now been converted from drilling licenses to production leases that will remain intact for a period of ten years from the conversion point.  Of the 135 net wells EOGRC drilled or participated in during 2012, 124 were horizontal wells in oil plays, 7 were horizontal natural gas acreage retention wells and the remaining 4 were vertical wells.  In 2013, EOGRC will continue to develop its Manitoba property and identify new targets in Alberta.  In 2012, net crude oil and condensate and NGL production was 7.8 MBbld and net natural gas production was 95 MMcfd.



At December 31, 2012, EOGRC held approximately 638,000 net undeveloped acres in Canada.



EOGRC owned a 30% interest in both the planned liquefied natural gas export terminal to be located near the Port of Kitimat, British Columbia (Kitimat LNG Terminal) and the proposed Pacific Trail Pipelines (PTP) which is intended to link Western Canada's natural gas producing regions to the Kitimat LNG Terminal.  In December 2012, EOGRC signed a purchase and sale agreement for the sale of its entire interest in the Kitimat LNG Terminal and PTP, as well as approximately 28,500 undeveloped net acres in the Horn River Basin, to Chevron Canada Limited.  The transaction closed in February  2013.










Operations Outside the United States and Canada



EOG has operations offshore Trinidad, in the U.K. North Sea and East Irish Sea, in the China Sichuan Basin and in the Neuquén Basin of Argentina, and is evaluating additional exploration, development and exploitation opportunities in these and other select international areas.



Trinidad.  EOG, through several of its subsidiaries, including EOG Resources Trinidad Limited,



·holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the South East Coast Consortium (SECC) Block offshore Trinidad, except in the Deep Ibis area in which EOG's working interest decreased as a result of a third-party farm-out agreement;

·holds an 80% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the Pelican Field and its related facilities;

·holds a 50% working interest in the exploration and production license covering the EMZ Area offshore Trinidad;

·holds a 100% working interest in a production sharing contract with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for each of the Modified U(a) Block, Modified U(b) Block and Block 4(a);

·owns a 12% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited; and

·owns a 10% equity interest in an anhydrous ammonia plant in Point Lisas, Trinidad, that is owned and operated by Nitrogen (2000) Unlimited.



Several fields in the SECC Block, Modified U(a) Block and Modified U(b) Block, as well as the Pelican Field, have been developed and are producing natural gas and crude oil and condensate.  Production from both the Toucan Field in Block 4(a) and the adjacent EMZ Area began in February 2012 to supply natural gas under a contract with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago (NGC).



During the fourth quarter of 2012, EOG began drilling an exploratory well in the Modified U(a) Block which was successful.  This well and three additional development wells to be drilled in 2013 will be completed during the first half of 2013.



Natural gas from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to NGC or its subsidiary.  In 2013, certain agreements with NGC require EOG's Trinidad operations to deliver approximately 470 MMcfd (360 MMcfd, net) of natural gas, under current economic conditions.  EOG intends to fulfill these natural gas delivery obligations by using production from existing proved reserves.  Crude oil and condensate from EOG's Trinidad operations currently is sold to the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited.



In 2012, EOG's average net production from Trinidad was 378 MMcfd of natural gas and 1.5 MBbld of crude oil and condensate.



At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 39,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.



United Kingdom.EOG's subsidiary, EOG Resources United Kingdom Limited (EOGUK), owns a 25% non-operating working interest in a portion of Block 49/16a, located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.  During 2012, production continued from the Valkyrie field in this block.



EOGUK also owns a 30% non-operating working interest in a portion of Blocks 53/1 and 53/2.  These blocks are also located in the Southern Gas Basin of the North Sea.



In 2006, EOGUK participated in the drilling and successful testing of the Columbus prospect in the Central North Sea Block 23/16f.  EOG has a 25% non-operating working interest in this block.  A successful Columbus natural gas prospect appraisal well was drilled during the third quarter of 2007.  The field operator submitted a revised field development plan to the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) in the third quarter of 2012 with approval expected in the second quarter of 2013.  The project participants are currently negotiating commercial agreements.










In 2007, EOGUK was awarded a license for two blocks in the East Irish Sea – Blocks 110/7b and 110/12a.  In 2009, EOGUK drilled a successful exploratory well in its East Irish Sea Block 110/12a.  Well 110/12-6, in which EOGUK has a 100% working interest, was an oil discovery and was designated the Conwy field.  In 2010, EOGUK added an adjoining field in its East Irish Sea block, designated Corfe, to its overall development plans.  The field development plans for the Conwy/Corfe project were approved by the DECC in March 2012.  The production platform was installed during the second quarter of 2012 and the pipelines were installed in the fourth quarter of 2012.   EOG expects to begin processing facility installation during the first half of 2013.  The Conwy development drilling program is expected to commence during the second quarter of 2013, with initial production expected in the fourth quarter of 2013.



In 2009, EOGUK was awarded a license for Block 21/12b in the Central North Sea where it expects to drill an exploratory well to test a crude oil prospect in late 2013.  EOGUK has 100% interest in this block.



In 2012, production averaged 2 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in the United Kingdom.



At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 95,000 net undeveloped acres in the United Kingdom.



China.In July 2008, EOG acquired rights from ConocoPhillips in a Petroleum Contract covering the Chuanzhong Block exploration area in the Sichuan Basin, Sichuan Province, China.  In October 2008, EOG obtained the rights to shallower zones on the acreage acquired.



In 2012, production averaged 8 MMcfd of natural gas, net, in China.



At December 31, 2012, EOG held approximately 131,000 net developed acres in China.



Argentina. In 2011, EOG signed two exploration contracts and one farm-in agreement covering approximately 80,000 net acres in the Neuquén Basin in Neuquén Province, Argentina.  During the first half of 2012, EOG participated in the drilling and completion of a vertical well in the Bajo del Toro Block.  In the first half of 2012, EOG drilled a well to monitor future well completions in the Aguada del Chivato Block and drilled and completed a horizontal well in this block.  Both the horizontal and vertical wells that were completed are under evaluation.  During the first quarter of 2013, EOG plans to complete the monitoring well in the Aguada del Chivato Block.



Other International.EOG continues to evaluate other select crude oil and natural gas opportunities outside the United States and Canada primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous crude oil and natural gas reserves have been identified.



Marketing



In 2012, EOG's wellhead crude oil and condensate production was sold into local markets or transported either by pipeline, truck or EOG's crude-by-rail assets to downstream markets.  In each case, the price received was based on market prices at that specific sales point or based on the price index applicable for that location.  Major sales points included Clearbrook, Minnesota, Cushing, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and the U.S. Gulf Coast.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In 2012, EOG processed certain of its natural gas production, either at EOG-owned plants or at third-party plants, extracting NGLs.  NGLs were sold at prevailing market prices.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In 2012, EOG's United States and Canada wellhead natural gas production was sold into local markets or transported by pipeline to downstream markets.  Pricing, based on the spot market and long-term natural gas contracts, was at prevailing market prices.  In 2013, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same.



In 2012, a large majority of the wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold under contracts with prices which were either wholly or partially dependent on Caribbean ammonia index prices and/or methanol prices.  The remaining volumes were sold under a contract at prices partially dependent on United States Henry Hub market prices.  The pricing mechanisms for these contracts in Trinidad are expected to remain the same in 2013.










In 2012, all wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom were sold on the spot market.  The 2013 marketing strategy for wellhead natural gas volumes from the United Kingdom is expected to remain the same. EOG is currently investigating possible marketing opportunities for its wellhead crude oil due to the anticipated start of EOG's crude oil production in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2013.



In 2012, all of the wellhead natural gas volumes from China were sold under a contract with prices based on the purchaser's pipeline sales prices to various local market segments.  The pricing mechanism for the contract in China is expected to remain the same in 2013.



In certain instances, EOG purchases and sells third-party crude oil and natural gas in order to balance firm transportation capacity with production in certain areas and to utilize excess capacity at EOG-owned facilities.



During 2012, a single purchaser accounted for 19.8% of EOG's total wellhead crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas revenues and gathering, processing and marketing revenues.  EOG does not believe that the loss of any single purchaser would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.










Wellhead Volumes and Prices



The following table sets forth certain information regarding EOG's wellhead volumes of, and average prices for, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. The table also presents crude oil equivalent volumes which are determined using the ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 Mcf of natural gas for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.



Year Ended December 31201220112010Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States:Eagle Ford72.330.24.1Barnett13.015.26.8Other64.056.652.3United States149.3102.063.2Canada7.07.96.7Trinidad1.53.44.7Other International(2)0.10.10.1Total157.9113.474.7Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbld)(1)United States:Eagle Ford11.23.90.2Barnett25.822.616.3Other18.115.013.0United States55.141.529.5Canada0.80.90.9Total55.942.430.4Natural Gas Volumes (MMcfd)(1)United States:Eagle Ford65214Barnett368403404Other601689725United States1,0341,1131,133Canada95132200Trinidad378344341Other International(2)91314Total1,5161,6021,688Crude Oil Equivalent Volumes (MBoed)(3)United States:Eagle Ford94.437.75.0Barnett100.1105.090.5Other182.1186.4186.0United States376.6329.1281.5Canada23.630.740.9Trinidad64.560.761.5Other International(2)1.72.22.5Total466.4422.7386.4Total MMBoe(3)170.7154.3141.1












Year Ended December 31201220112010Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$98.38$92.92$74.88Canada86.0891.9272.66Trinidad92.2690.6268.80Other International(2)89.57100.1173.11Composite97.7792.7974.29Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl)(4)United States$35.41$50.37$41.68Canada44.1352.6943.40Composite35.5450.4141.73Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf)(4)United States$2.51$3.92$4.30Canada2.493.713.91Trinidad3.723.532.65Other International(2)5.715.624.90Composite2.833.833.93

(1)Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable.

(2)Other International includes EOG's United Kingdom, China and Argentina operations.

(3)Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day or million barrels of oil equivalent, as applicable; includes crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  MMBoe is calculated by multiplying the MBoed amount by the number of days in the period and then dividing that amount by one thousand.

(4)Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable.  Excludes the impact of financial commodity derivative instruments (see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements).



Competition



EOG competes with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas.  Moreover, many of EOG's competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those EOG possesses and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which EOG may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, EOG may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights.  In addition, many of EOG's larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  EOG also faces competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources.



Regulation



United States Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.Crude oil and natural gas production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation in the United States by federal and state agencies.



United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion.  In addition, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry.  Such rules and regulations, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas through restrictions on flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate the calculation and disbursement of royalty payments, production taxes and ad valorem taxes.












A substantial portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) or, in the case of offshore leases, by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), all federal agencies.  Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous additional statutory and regulatory restrictions.  Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM or the BSEE.



BLM and BOEM leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the BOEM or BSEE).  Under certain circumstances, the BLM, BOEM or the BSEE may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated.  Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect EOG's interests.



The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.  These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Effective January 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production.  All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions.  Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.  EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales.  Conversely, sales of crude oil and condensate and NGLs by EOG are made at unregulated market prices.



EOG owns certain gathering and/or processing facilities in the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in North Dakota, and the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  State regulation of gathering and processing facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation.  EOG's gathering and processing operations could be materially and adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.



EOG's gathering and processing operations also may be, or become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities.  Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time.  Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations and financial condition, the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.



Proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC and federal and state regulatory commissions and courts.  EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective.  It should also be noted that the oil and gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the approach currently being followed by such legislative bodies and regulatory agencies and courts will continue indefinitely.



Canadian Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.  The oil and gas industry in Canada is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government.  These regulatory authorities may impose regulations on or otherwise intervene in the oil and gas industry with respect to taxes and factors affecting prices, transportation rates, the exportation of the commodity and, possibly, expropriation or cancellation of contract rights.  Such regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic, political or other factors.  The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for these commodities or increase EOG's costs and, therefore, may have a material adverse impact on EOG's operations and financial condition.



It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect EOG's operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size; however, EOG is unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted or how such additional legislation or amendments may affect EOG's operations and financial condition.










In addition, each province has regulations that govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters.  The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of crude oil and natural gas production.  Royalties payable on production from freehold lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee, although production from such lands is also subject to certain provincial taxes and royalties.  Royalties payable on lands that the government has an interest in are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends, in part, on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced.  From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada have also established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays and tax credits for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects.  These incentives generally have the effect of increasing EOG's revenues, earnings and cash flow.



Environmental Regulation - United States.EOG is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements.



In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control.  Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators.  EOG also could incur costs related to the clean-up of third-party sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such third-party sites.  In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properties in which EOG previously owned or currently owns an interest, but was or is not the operator.  Moreover, EOG is subject to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and may in the future, as discussed further below, be subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing.



Compliance with environmental laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition or results of operations.  It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  However, given that such laws and regulations are subject to change, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Climate Change - United States.  Local, state, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, recent U.S. EPA rulemaking may result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the federal Clean Air Act.  EOG supports efforts to understand and address the contribution of human activities to global climate change through the application of sound scientific research and analysis.  Moreover, EOG believes that its strategy to reduce GHG emissions throughout its operations is in the best interest of the environment and is a generally good business practice.



EOG has developed a system that is utilized in calculating GHG emissions from its operating facilities.  This emissions management system calculates emissions based on recognized regulatory methodologies, where applicable, and on commonly accepted engineering practices.  EOG is now reporting GHG emissions for facilities covered under the U.S. EPA's Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule published in October 2009.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.










Hydraulic Fracturing - United States





EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in the United States, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Environmental Regulation - Canada.All phases of the oil and gas industry in Canada are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations.  Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment.  These laws and regulations also require that facility sites and other properties associated with EOG's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.  In addition, EOG could be held responsible for oil and gas properties in which EOG owns an interest but is not the operator.



These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and the clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities that may affect the environment.  Compliance with such laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition or results of operations.  It is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  However, given that such laws and regulations are subject to change, EOG is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.










As discussed above, local, provincial, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  The Canadian federal government has indicated an intention to work with the United States to regulate industrial emissions of GHG and air pollutants from a broad range of industrial sectors.  In addition, regulation of GHG emissions in Canada takes place at the provincial and municipal level.  For example, the governments of Alberta and British Columbia each regulate GHG emissions and the Government of Manitoba is currently considering the creation of a cap-and-trade system to reduce GHG emissions in Manitoba.  Canada was an original signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (also known as the Kyoto Protocol), but Canada withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol, effective December 2012.



In Canada, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the provincial and local levels through permitting and other compliance requirements.  Some provinces and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; restrictions on access to and usage of water; disclosure of the chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing operations; and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations.  Such provincial and local requirements, restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in Canada, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.



Other International Regulation.EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States and Canada are subject to various types of regulations imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs of compliance within that country.  EOG currently has operations in Trinidad, the United Kingdom, China and Argentina.  EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, including those regarding climate change and hydraulic fracturing, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations.  EOG will continue to review the risks to its business and operations associated with all environmental matters, including climate change and hydraulic fracturing.  In addition, EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where it operates to determine the impact on its operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary.



Other Regulation.EOG has sand mining and processing operations in Texas and Wisconsin, which support EOG's exploration and development operations.  EOG's sand mining operations are subject to regulation by the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (in respect of safety and health matters) and by state agencies (in respect of air permitting and other environmental matters).  The information concerning mine safety violations and other regulatory matters required by Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.104) is included in Exhibit 95 to this report.



Other Matters



Energy Prices.EOG is a crude oil and natural gas producer and is impacted by changes in prices for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  Crude oil and condensate and NGLs production comprised a larger portion of EOG's production mix in 2012 than in prior years and is expected to comprise an even larger portion in 2013.  Average crude oil and condensate prices received by EOG for production in the United States and Canada increased by 5% in 2012, 24% in 2011 and 37% in 2010, each as compared to the immediately preceding year.  During the last three years, average United States and Canada wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically.  These fluctuations resulted in a 36% decrease in the average wellhead natural gas price received by EOG for production in the United States and Canada in 2012, an 8% decrease in 2011 and an increase of 13% in 2010, each as compared to the immediately preceding year.  Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the availability of other energy supplies, the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers and other factors, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices in the future.  For additional discussion regarding changes in crude oil and natural gas prices and the risks that such changes may present to EOG, see ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.










Including the impact of EOG's 2013 crude oil derivative contracts (exclusive of options) and based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2013 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the estimated change in NGLs price, is approximately $28 million for net income and $41 million for cash flows from operating activities.  Including the impact of EOG's 2013 natural gas derivative contracts and based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2013 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $18 million for net income and $27 million for cash flows from operating activities.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 21, 2013, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2012, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Risk Management.EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time.  These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas.  EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily price swap, option, swaption, collar and basis swap contracts, as a means to manage this price risk.  See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition to financial transactions, EOG is a party to various physical commodity contracts for the sale of hydrocarbons that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions.  Under the provisions of the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification, these physical commodity contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception and, therefore, are not subject to hedge accounting or mark-to-market accounting.  The financial impact of physical commodity contracts is included in revenues at the time of settlement, which in turn affects average realized hydrocarbon prices.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at February 21, 2013, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Transactions.  For a summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2012, see Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements.



All of EOG's crude oil and natural gas activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development and production of, crude oil and natural gas, including blowouts, rig and well explosions, cratering, fires and loss of well control, each of which could result in damage to life, property and/or the environment.  EOG's onshore and offshore operations are also subject to usual customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.  Moreover, EOG's activities are subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations.  Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance.

In addition to the above-described risks, EOG's operations outside the United States are subject to certain risks, including the risk of increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies, expropriation of assets, unilateral or forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts with governmental entities, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations.  Please refer to ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject with respect to its operations outside the United States.










Texas Severance Tax Rate Reduction.  Natural gas production from qualifying Texas natural gas wells spudded or completed after August 31, 1996 is entitled to a reduced severance tax rate for the first 120 consecutive months of production.  However, the cumulative value of the tax reduction cannot exceed 50 percent of the drilling and completion costs incurred on a well-by-well basis.  For a discussion of the impact on EOG, see ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Operating and Other Expenses.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 21, 2013) are as follows:



NameAgePositionMark G. Papa66Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; DirectorWilliam R. Thomas60PresidentGary L. Thomas63Chief Operating OfficerTimothy K. Driggers51Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael P. Donaldson50Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary



Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of EOG in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and director in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September 1997 and President in December 1996, and was President-North America Operations from February 1994 to December 1996.  Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of EOG, in 1981.  Mr. Papa is also a director of Oil States International, Inc., an oilfield service company, where he serves on the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees.  From July 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Papa served as a director of the general partner of Magellan Midstream Partners LP, a pipeline and terminal company, where he served as Chairman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Audit and Conflicts Committees.Mr. Papa is EOG's principal executive officer.



William R. Thomas was elected President in September 2011.  He was elected Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in June 2004, Executive Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, office in February 2007, and Senior Executive Vice President, Exploitation in February 2011, and served as Senior Executive Vice President, Exploration from July 2011 to September 2011.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in January 1979.



Gary L. Thomas was elected Chief Operating Officer in September 2011.  He was elected Executive Vice President, North America Operations in May 1998, Executive Vice President, Operations in May 2002, and served as Senior Executive Vice President, Operations from February 2007 to September 2011.  He also previously served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas, office.  Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of EOG in July 1978.



Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2007.  He was elected Vice President and Controller of EOG in October 1999 and was subsequently named Vice President, Accounting and Land Administration in October 2000 and Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2003.  Mr. Driggers is EOG's principal financial officer.  Mr. Driggers joined a predecessor of EOG in August 1995.



Michael P. Donaldson was elected Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2012.  He was elected Corporate Secretary in May 2008, and was appointed Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in July 2010.  Mr. Donaldson joined EOG as an Assistant General Counsel in September 2007.










