ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.

Obesity and other health concerns may reduce demand for some of our products.

Consumers, public health officials and government officials are highly concerned about the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, including those sweetened with HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners. Increasing public concern about these issues; possible new taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages; additional governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling, packaging or sale of our beverages; and negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against us or other companies in our industry relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of sugar-sweetened beverages may reduce demand for our beverages, which could adversely affect our profitability.










Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact the Coca-Cola system's production costs and capacity.

Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our products and is needed to produce the agricultural ingredients on which our business relies. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution, poor management and climate change. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, our system may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints that could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run.

Changes in the nonalcoholic beverage business environment and retail landscape could impact our financial results.

The nonalcoholic beverage business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, including changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the nonalcoholic beverage retail landscape is very dynamic and constantly evolving, not only in emerging and developing markets, where modern trade is growing at a faster pace than traditional trade outlets, but also in developed markets, where discounters and value stores, as well as the volume of transactions through e-commerce, are growing at a rapid pace. If we are unable to successfully adapt to the rapidly changing environment and retail landscape, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected.

Increased competition could hurt our business.

The nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry is highly competitive. We compete with major international beverage companies that, like our Company, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous companies that are primarily local in operation. In many countries in which we do business, including the United States, PepsiCo, Inc. is a primary competitor. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, DPS, Groupe Danone, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., and Unilever. In certain markets, our competition includes major beer companies. Our beverage products also compete against local or regional brands as well as against private label brands developed by retailers, some of which are Coca-Cola system customers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the global market or in various local markets may be limited as a result of actions by competitors.

Increased demand for food products and decreased agricultural productivity as a result of changing weather patterns may negatively affect our business.

We and our bottling partners use a number of key ingredients that are derived from agricultural commodities such as sugarcane, corn, beets, citrus, coffee and tea in the manufacture of beverage products. Increased demand for food products and decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of such agricultural commodities, which in turn may negatively affect the affordability of our products and ultimately our business and results of operations.

Consolidation in the retail channel or the loss of key retail or foodservice customers could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel, particularly in Europe and the United States. Larger retailers may seek lower prices from us and our bottling partners, may demand increased marketing or promotional expenditures, and may be more likely to use their distribution networks to introduce and develop private label brands, any of which could negatively affect the Coca-Cola system's profitability. In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to maintain good relationships with key retail and foodservice customers. The loss of one or more of our key retail or foodservice customers could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.

If we are unable to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected.

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to acquire bottling operations in those markets or to form strategic business alliances with local bottlers and to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in developing and emerging markets must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular developing or emerging market.










Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results.

If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected.

We rely on our bottling partners for a significant portion of our business. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners, our business could suffer.

We generate a significant portion of our net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to independent bottling partners. As independent companies, our bottling partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our bottling partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own products or certain products of other beverage companies. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottling partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, or if our bottling partners are not satisfied with our brand innovation and development efforts, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profits, may be detrimental to our Company or our brands, or they may devote more of their energy and resources to business opportunities or products other than those of the Company. Such actions could, in the long run, have an adverse effect on our profitability.

If our bottling partners' financial condition deteriorates, our business and financial results could be affected.

We derive a significant portion of our net operating revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners and, therefore, the success of our business depends on our bottling partners' financial strength and profitability. While under our agreements with our bottling partners we generally have the right to unilaterally change the prices we charge for our concentrates and syrups, our ability to do so may be materially limited by our bottling partners' financial condition and their ability to pass price increases along to their customers. In addition, we have investments in certain of our bottling partners, which we account for under the equity method, and our operating results include our proportionate share of such bottling partners' income or loss. Our bottling partners' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including competitive and general market conditions in the territories in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. A deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major bottling partners could adversely affect our net operating










revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups; could result in a decrease in our equity income; and could negatively affect the carrying values of our investments in bottling partners, resulting in asset write-offs.

Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

We are subject to income tax in the United States and in numerous other jurisdictions in which we generate net operating revenues. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. We earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. If our capital or financing needs in the United States require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. In addition, there have been proposals to reform U.S. tax laws that could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals being considered, if enacted into law, could have a material adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flow.

Our annual tax rate is based on our income and the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual income tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of audits or related disputes could have a material effect on our financial statements for the periodor periods for which the applicable final determinations are made.

Increased or new indirect taxes in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets could negatively affect our business.

Our business operations are subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as "indirect taxes," including import duties, excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes and payroll taxes, in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including indirect taxes imposed by state and local governments. In addition, in the past, the United States Congress considered imposing a federal excise tax on beverages sweetened with sugar, HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners and may consider similar proposals in the future. As federal, state and local governments experience significant budget deficits, some lawmakers have proposed singling out beverages among a plethora of revenue-raising items. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our business operations or products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, which may negatively impact our net operating revenues.

Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy or fuels could affect our profitability.

CCR, our North America bottling and customer service organization, and our Company-owned or -controlled bottlers operate a large fleet of trucks and other motor vehicles to distribute and deliver beverage products to customers. In addition, we use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our concentrate plants and the bottling plants and distribution facilities operated by CCR and our Company-owned or -controlled bottlers. An increase in the price, disruption of supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources in North America, in other countries in which we have concentrate plants, or in any of the major markets in which our Company-owned or -controlled bottlers operate that may be caused by increasing demand or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, or the like, would increase our operating costs and negatively impact our profitability.

Our bottling partners also operate large fleets of trucks and other motor vehicles to distribute and deliver beverage products to their own customers and use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate their own bottling plants and distribution facilities. Increases in the price, disruption of supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources in any of the major markets in which our bottling partners operate would increase the affected bottling partners' operating costs and could indirectly negatively impact our results of operations.

Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients, other raw materials or packaging materials could harm our business.

We and our bottling partners use various ingredients in our business, including HFCS, sucrose, aspartame, saccharin, acesulfame potassium, sucralose, ascorbic acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid and caramel color, other raw materials such as orange and other fruit juice and juice concentrates, as well as packaging materials such as PET for bottles and aluminum for cans. The prices for these ingredients, other raw materials and packaging materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. Substantial increases in the prices of our or our bottling partners' ingredients, other raw materials and packaging materials, to the extent they cannot be recouped through increases in the prices of finished beverage products, would increase our and the Coca-Cola system's operating costs and could reduce our profitability. Increases in the prices of our finished products resulting










from a higher cost of ingredients, other raw materials and packaging materials could affect affordability in some markets and reduce Coca-Cola system sales. In addition, some of our ingredients, such as aspartame, acesulfame potassium, sucralose, saccharin and ascorbic acid, as well as some of the packaging containers, such as aluminum cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers, some of which are located in countries experiencing political or other risks. We cannot assure you that we and our bottling partners will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers.

The citrus industry is subject to the variability of weather conditions, which affect the supply of orange juice and orange juice concentrate, which are important raw materials for our business. In particular, freezing weather or hurricanes in central Florida may result in shortages and higher prices for orange juice and orange juice concentrate throughout the industry. In addition, adverse weather conditions may affect the supply of other agricultural commodities from which key ingredients for our products are derived. For example, drought conditions in certain parts of the United States may negatively affect the supply of corn, which in turn may result in shortages and higher prices for HFCS.

An increase in the cost, a sustained interruption in the supply, or a shortage of some of these ingredients, other raw materials, packaging materials or cans and other containers that may be caused by a deterioration of our or our bottling partners' relationships with suppliers; by supplier quality and reliability issues; or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, political uncertainties or governmental instability, or the like, could negatively impact our net revenues and profits.

Changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products.

We and our bottlers currently offer nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and in various other markets around the world. Legal requirements have been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of certain nonrefillable beverage containers. Other proposals relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotax and/or product stewardship have been introduced in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. Consumers' increased concerns and changing attitudes about solid waste streams and environmental responsibility and the related publicity could result in the adoption of such legislation or regulations. If these types of requirements are adopted and implemented on a large scale in any of the major markets in which we operate, they could affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could reduce our net operating revenues or profitability.

Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products may inhibit sales of affected products.










If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted and our reputation may be damaged.

Like most major corporations, the Company's information systems are a target of attacks. Although the disruptions to our information systems that we have experienced to date have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that such disruptions will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future.  In order to address risks to our information systems, we continue to make investments in personnel, technologies, cyberinsurance and training of Company personnel, bottlers and third parties. The Company maintains an information risk management program which is supervised by information technology management and reviewed by a cross-functional committee. As part of this program, reports which include analysis of emerging risks as well as the Company's plans and strategies to address them are regularly prepared and presented to senior management.

Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our financial performance.

In 2012, our net operating revenues in the United States were $19.7 billion, or 41 percent of our total net operating revenues. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown, in the United States could negatively affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, some of our beverages in our flagship market. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our beverages to lower-priced products offered by other companies, including private label brands. Softer consumer demand for our beverages in the United States could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance.

Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt our business.










Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.

Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products.

The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods.

Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugarcane, corn, beets, citrus, coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products, and could impact the food security of communities around the world. Climate change may also exacerbate water scarcity and cause a further deterioration of water quality in affected regions, which could limit water availability for our system's bottling operations. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

If negative publicity related to product safety or quality, human and workplace rights, obesity or other issues, even if unwarranted, damages our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.



In addition, campaigns by activists attempting to connect us or our bottling system with human and workplace rights issues in certain emerging markets could adversely impact our corporate image and reputation. For example, in June 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which outlines how businesses should implement the corporate responsibility to respect human rights principles included in the United Nations "Protect, Respect and Remedy" framework on human rights. Through our Human Rights Statement and Workplace Rights Policy and Supplier Guiding Principles, and our participation in the United Nations Global Compact and its LEAD program, as well as our active participation in the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights and Global Business Coalition Against Human Trafficking, we made a number of commitments to respect all human rights. Allegations that we are not respecting any of the 30 human rights










found in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, even if untrue, could have a significant impact on our corporate reputation and long-term financial results. Also, adverse publicity surrounding obesity and health concerns related to our products, water usage, environmental concerns, labor relations, or the like could negatively affect our Company's overall reputation and our products' acceptance by consumers.

Changes in, or failure to comply with, the laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could increase our costs or reduce our net operating revenues.

Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results.

New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods.

If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected.

We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our growth prospects, which are generally driven by volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of the potential price and product mix. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or the mix of products necessary to achieve our long-term growth objectives.

Continuing uncertainty in the global credit markets may adversely affect our financial performance.

Global credit market conditions continue to be uncertain in large part because of unfavorable economic environment conditions in much of the world and the unsustainable sovereign debt burden affecting various countries in the European Union. The cost and availability of credit vary by market and are subject to changes in the global or regional economic environment. If the current uncertain conditions in the credit markets continue or worsen, our bottling partners' ability to access credit markets on favorable terms may be negatively affected, which could affect the Coca-Cola system's profitability as well as our share of the income of bottling partners in which we have equity method investments. The decrease in availability of consumer credit resulting from uncertain credit market conditions, as well as general unfavorable economic conditions, may also cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending, which would reduce the demand for our beverages and negatively affect our net operating revenues and the Coca-Cola system's profitability.










If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses.

As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps, with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.

If we are unable to realize additional benefits targeted by our productivity and reinvestment program, our financial results could be negatively affected.

We believe that productivity gains are essential to achieving our long-term growth objectives and, therefore, a leading priority of our Company is to design and implement the most effective and efficient business system possible. As part of our efforts to become more efficient, leaner and adaptive to changing market conditions, in February 2012 we announced a productivity and reinvestment program consisting of (i) a new productivity initiative focused on global supply chain optimization, global marketing and innovation effectiveness, operating expense leverage, operational excellence and data and information technology systems standardization; and (ii) an expansion of our initiative to capture CCR integration synergies in North America, focused primarily on our North American product supply. We expect to incur significant costs to capture these savings and additional synergies. We intend to invest the savings generated by this program to enhance ongoing systemwide brand-building initiatives and to mitigate potential incremental near-term commodity costs. If we are unable to capture the savings and additional synergies targeted by our productivity and reinvestment program, our financial results could be negatively affected.

If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we or our bottling partners experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our business could suffer.

Many of our associates at our key manufacturing locations and bottling plants are covered by collective bargaining agreements. While we generally have been able to renegotiate collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire and regard our relations with associates and their representatives as generally satisfactory, negotiations in the current environment remain challenging, as the Company must have competitive cost structures in each market while meeting the compensation and benefits needs of our associates. If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our profit margins. In addition, many of our bottling partners' employees are represented by labor unions. Strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest at any of our major manufacturing facilities or at our or our major bottlers' plants could impair our ability to supply concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners or our bottlers' ability to supply finished beverages to customers, which would reduce our net operating revenues and could expose us to customer claims.

We may be required to recognize impairment charges that could materially affect our financial results.

We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets as well as our other long-lived assets as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to determine whether they are impaired and, if they are, we record appropriate impairment charges. Our equity method investees also perform impairment tests, and we record our proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by them adjusted, as appropriate, for the impact of items such as basis differences, deferred taxes and deferred gains. It is possible that we may be required to record significant impairment charges or our proportionate share of significant charges recorded by equity method investees in the future and, if we do so, our operating or equity income could be materially adversely affected.










We may incur multi-employer plan withdrawal liabilities in the future, which could negatively impact our financial performance.

We participate in certain multi-employer pension plans in the United States. Our U.S. multi-employer pension plan expense totaled$31 millionin 2012. The U.S. multi-employer pension plans in which we currently participate have contractual arrangements that extend into 2017. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from any of the multi-employer pension plans in which we participate, we will likely need to record withdrawal liabilities, which could negatively impact our financial performance in the applicable periods.

If we do not successfully integrate and manage our Company-owned or -controlled bottling operations, our results could suffer.

From time to time we acquire or take control of bottling operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. We may incur unforeseen liabilities and obligations in connection with acquiring, taking control of or managing bottling operations and may encounter unexpected difficulties and costs in restructuring and integrating them into our Company's operating and internal control structures. We may also experience delays in extending our Company's internal control over financial reporting to newly acquired or controlled bottling operations, which may increase the risk of failure to prevent misstatements in such operations' financial records and in our consolidated financial statements. Our financial performance depends in large part on how well we can manage and improve the performance of Company-owned or -controlled bottling operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for such bottling operations. If we are unable to achieve such objectives, our consolidated results could be negatively affected.

Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and financial results.

Because of our global presence and worldwide operations, our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; major natural disasters; or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impair our ability to manage our business around the world, could disrupt our supply of raw materials and ingredients, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of concentrates, syrups and finished products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic activity, which can affect consumers' purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products.



