ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.

Obesity and other health-related concerns may reduce demand for some of our products.

There is growing concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about the health problems associated with obesity. Increasing public concern about obesity; other health-related public concerns surrounding consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages; possible new or increased taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages by government entities to reduce consumption or to raise revenue; additional governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling, packaging or sale of our sugar-sweetened beverages; and negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against us or other companies in our industry relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of sugar-sweetened beverages may reduce demand for or increase the cost of our sugar-sweetened beverages, which could adversely affect our profitability.

Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact the Coca-Cola system's costs and capacity.

Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products, is vital to the production of the agricultural ingredients on which our business relies and is needed in our manufacturing process. It also is critical to the prosperity of the communities we serve. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing demand for food and other consumer and industrial products whose manufacturing processes require water, increasing pollution, poor management and the effects of climate change. As the demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, the Coca-Cola system may incur higher costs or face capacity constraints that could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run.

If we do not address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer.

Consumer preferences have evolved and continue to evolve as a result of, among other things, health, wellness and nutrition considerations, especially the perceived undesirability of artificial ingredients and obesity concerns; shifting consumer demographics, including aging populations; changes in consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; location of origin or source of products and ingredients; and competitive product and pricing pressures. If we fail to address these changes, or do not successfully anticipate future changes in consumer preferences, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected.

Increased competition and capabilities in the marketplace could hurt our business.

The nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry is highly competitive. We compete with major international beverage companies that, like our Company, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous companies that are primarily regional or local in operation. In many countries in which we do business, including the United States, PepsiCo is a primary competitor. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, DPSG, Groupe Danone, Mondelēz, Kraft, Suntory and Unilever. In certain markets, our competition also includes major beer companies that also distribute nonalcoholic beverages. Our beverage products also compete against private label brands developed by retailers, some of which are Coca-Cola system customers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the global market or in various local markets may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. If we do not continue to strengthen our capabilities in marketing and innovation to maintain our brand loyalty and market share while we selectively expand into other profitable categories in the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry, our business could be negatively affected.










Product safety and quality concerns could negatively affect our business.

Our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of all of our products. We have rigorous product safety and quality standards, which we expect our operations as well as our bottling partners to meet. However, we cannot assure you that despite our strong commitment to product safety and quality we or all of our bottling partners will always meet these standards, particularly as we expand our product offerings through innovation or acquisitions of products, such as value-added dairy products, that are beyond our traditional range of beverage products. If we or our bottling partners fail to comply with applicable product safety and quality standards, or if our beverage products taken to the market are or become contaminated or adulterated by any means, we may be required to conduct costly product recalls and may become subject to product liability claims and negative publicity, which could cause our business to suffer.

Public debate and concern about perceived negative health consequences of certain ingredients, such as non-nutritive sweeteners and biotechnology-derived substances, and of other substances present in our beverage products or packaging materials, may reduce demand for our beverage products.

Public debate and concern about perceived negative health consequences of certain ingredients in our beverage products, such as non-nutritive sweeteners and biotechnology-derived substances; substances that are present in our beverage products naturally or that occur as a result of the manufacturing process, such as 4-methylimidazole ("4-MEI," a chemical compound that is formed during the manufacturing of certain types of caramel coloring used in cola-type beverages); or substances used in packaging materials, such as bisphenol A ("BPA," an odorless, tasteless food-grade chemical commonly used in the food and beverage industries as a component in the coating of the interior of cans), may affect consumers' preferences and cause them to shift away from some of our beverage products. In addition, increasing public concern about actual or perceived health consequences of the presence of such ingredients or substances in our beverage products or in packaging materials, whether or not justified, could result in additional governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or sale of our beverages; possible new or increased taxes on our beverages by government entities; and negative publicity, or actual or threatened legal actions against us or other companies in our industry, all of which could damage the reputation of, and may reduce demand for, our beverage products.

If we are not successful in our innovation activities, our financial results may be negatively affected.

Achieving our business growth objectives depends in part on our ability to evolve and improve our existing beverage products through innovation and to successfully develop, introduce and market new beverage products. The success of our innovation activities in turn depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance and trends, obtain, maintain and enforce necessary intellectual property protections and avoid infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are not successful in our innovation activities, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives, which may have a negative impact on our financial results.

Increased demand for food products and decreased agricultural productivity may negatively affect our business.

We and our bottling partners use a number of key ingredients that are derived from agricultural commodities such as sugarcane, corn, sugar beets, citrus, coffee and tea in the manufacture and packaging of our beverage products. Increased demand for food products and decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of such agricultural commodities and could impact the food security of communities around the world. If we are unable to implement programs focused on economic opportunity and environmental sustainability to address these agricultural challenges and fail to make a strategic impact on food security through joint efforts with bottlers, farmers, communities, suppliers and key partners, as well as through our increased and continued investment in sustainable agriculture, the affordability of our products and ultimately our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted.

Changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail or foodservice customers could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel, particularly in Europe and the United States. Larger retailers may seek lower prices from us and our bottling partners, may demand increased marketing or promotional expenditures, and may be more likely to use their distribution networks to introduce and develop private label brands, any of which could negatively affect the Coca-Cola system's profitability. In addition, in developed markets, discounters and value stores, as well as the volume of transactions through e-commerce, are growing at a rapid pace. The nonalcoholic beverage retail landscape is also very dynamic and constantly evolving in emerging and developing markets, where modern trade is growing at a faster pace than traditional trade outlets. If we are unable to successfully adapt to the rapidly changing environment and retail landscape, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected. In addition, our success depends in part on our ability to maintain good relationships with key retail and foodservice customers. The loss of one or more of our key retail or foodservice customers could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.










If we are unable to expand our operations in emerging and developing markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected.

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in emerging and developing markets, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to work with local bottlers to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in emerging and developing markets must match consumers’ demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging or developing market.

Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected.

We rely on our bottling partners for a significant portion of our business. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners, our business could suffer.

We generate a significant portion of our net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to independent bottling partners. As independent companies, our bottling partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our bottling partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own products or certain products of other beverage companies. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottling partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, or if our bottling partners are not satisfied with our brand innovation and development efforts, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profits, may be detrimental to our Company or our brands, or they may devote more of their energy and resources to business opportunities or products other than those of the Company. Such actions could, in the long run, have an adverse effect on our profitability.










If our bottling partners' financial condition deteriorates, our business and financial results could be affected.

Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

We are subject to income tax in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions in which we generate profits. Our overall effective income tax rate is a function of applicable local tax rates and the geographic mix of our income before taxes, which is itself impacted by currency movements. Consequently, the isolated or combined effects of unfavorable movements in tax rates, geographic mix, or foreign exchange rates could reduce our after-tax income. We earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. If our capital or financing needs in the United States require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted.

The current U.S. administration has listed tax reform among its top policy priorities, and the U.S. Congress is reviewing various legislative tax proposals. Until further details emerge, it is premature to predict how such proposals ultimately may impact our business. Potential legislation is likely to include provisions that impact our business both favorably and unfavorably as compared to current law. Pending further development of those provisions and potential legislative enactment, we are unable to determine whether the net impact would produce a positive or negative impact, and what actions we may take as a consequence.

Increased or new indirect taxes in the United States and throughout the world could negatively affect our business.

Our business operations are subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as "indirect taxes," including import duties, excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages, property taxes and payroll taxes, in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including indirect taxes imposed by state and local governments. In addition, in the past, the U.S. Congress considered imposing a federal excise tax on beverages sweetened with sugar, HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners and may consider similar proposals in the future. As federal, state and local governments in the United States and throughout the world experience significant budget deficits, some lawmakers have singled out beverages among a plethora of revenue-raising items and have imposed or increased, or proposed to impose or increase, sales or similar taxes on beverages, particularly sugar-sweetened beverages. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our business operations or products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, which may negatively impact our net operating revenues and profitability.










Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy or fuels could affect our profitability.

Our Company-owned or -controlled bottlers operate a large fleet of trucks and other motor vehicles to distribute and deliver beverage products to customers. In addition, we use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our concentrate, syrup and juice production plants and the bottling plants and distribution facilities operated by our Company-owned or -controlled bottlers. An increase in the price, disruption of supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources in countries in which we have concentrate plants, or in any of the major markets in which our Company-owned or         -controlled bottlers operate, that may be caused by increasing demand or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, or the like could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our profitability.

Our independent bottling partners also operate large fleets of trucks and other motor vehicles to distribute and deliver beverage products to their own customers and use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate their own bottling plants and distribution facilities. An increase in the price, disruption of supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources in any of the major markets in which our independent bottling partners operate could increase the affected independent bottling partners' operating costs and thus indirectly negatively impact our results of operations.

Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients, other raw materials or packaging materials could harm our business.

.

The citrus industry is impacted by the variability of weather conditions and by greening disease, which affect the supply of orange juice and orange juice concentrate, which are important raw materials for our business. In particular, freezing weather or hurricanes in central Florida may result in shortages and higher prices for orange juice and orange juice concentrate throughout the industry. In addition, greening disease is reducing the number of citrus trees and increasing grower costs and prices. Adverse weather conditions may affect the supply of other agricultural commodities from which key ingredients for our products are derived. For example, drought conditions in certain parts of the United States may negatively affect the supply of corn, which in turn may result in shortages of and higher prices for HFCS.

An increase in the cost, a sustained interruption in the supply, or a shortage of some of these ingredients, other raw materials, packaging materials or cans and other containers that may be caused by a deterioration of our or our bottling partners' relationships with suppliers; by supplier quality and reliability issues; or by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, political uncertainties or governmental instability, or the like could negatively impact our net operating revenues and profits.

Changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products.

We and our bottlers currently offer nonrefillable recyclable containers in the United States and in various other markets around the world. Legal requirements have been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, marketing and use of certain beverage containers. Other proposals relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotax and/or product stewardship have been introduced in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. Consumers' increased concerns and changing attitudes about solid waste streams and environmental responsibility and the related publicity could result in the adoption of such legislation or regulations. If these types of requirements are adopted and implemented on a large scale in any of the major markets in which we operate, they could affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could reduce our net operating revenues and profitability.










Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may inhibit sales of affected products.

Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products as a result of what they contain or allegations that they cause adverse health effects. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products.

If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted and our reputation may be damaged.

.










Like most major corporations, the Company's information systems are a target of attacks. Although the incidents that we have experienced to date have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. In order to address risks to our information systems, we continue to make investments in personnel, technologies, cyber insurance and training of Company personnel. The Company maintains an information risk management program which is supervised by information technology management and reviewed by a cross-functional committee. As part of this program, reports that include analysis of emerging risks as well as the Company's plans and strategies to address them are regularly prepared and presented to senior management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our financial performance.

In 2016, our net operating revenues in the United States were $19.9 billion, or 48 percent, of our total net operating revenues. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown, in the United States could negatively affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, our beverages in our flagship market. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our beverages to lower-priced products offered by other companies, including private label brands. Softer consumer demand for our beverages in the United States could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance.

Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt our business.

Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.










Failure to adequately protect, or disputes relating to, trademarks, formulae and other intellectual property rights could harm our business.

Our trademarks, formulae and other intellectual property rights (refer to the heading "Patents, Copyrights, Trade Secrets and Trademarks" in "Item 1. Business" above) are essential to the success of our business. We cannot be certain that the legal steps we are taking around the world are sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights or that, notwithstanding legal protection, others do not or will not infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or if changes in laws diminish or remove the current legal protections available to them, the competitiveness of our products may be eroded and our business could suffer. In addition, we could come into conflict with third parties over intellectual property rights, which could result in disruptive and expensive litigation. Any of the foregoing could harm our business.

Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products.

The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods.

Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugarcane, corn, sugar beets, citrus, coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for our products, and could impact the food security of communities around the world. Climate change may also exacerbate water scarcity and cause a further deterioration of water quality in affected regions, which could limit water availability for the Coca-Cola system's bottling operations. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

If negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to product safety or quality, human and workplace rights, obesity or other issues damages our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.










Changes in, or failure to comply with, the laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could increase our costs or reduce our net operating revenues.

Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results.

New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results for the affected periods.

If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term growth objectives, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected.

We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on, among other things, our evaluation of our growth prospects, which are generally driven by the sales potential of our many beverage products, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of the potential price and product mix. There can be no assurance that we will realize the sales potential and the price and product mix necessary to achieve our long-term growth objectives.

If global credit market conditions deteriorate, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

The cost and availability of credit vary by market and are subject to changes in the global or regional economic environment. If conditions in major credit markets deteriorate, our and our bottling partners' ability to obtain debt financing on favorable terms may be negatively affected, which could affect our and our bottling partners' profitability as well as our share of the income of bottling partners in which we have equity method investments. A decrease in availability of consumer credit resulting from unfavorable credit market conditions, as well as general unfavorable economic conditions, may also cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending, which could reduce the demand for our beverages and negatively affect our and our bottling partners' financial performance.

Default by or failure of one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses.

As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps, with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default by or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.










If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we or our bottling partners experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our business could suffer.

We may be required to recognize impairment charges that could materially affect our financial results.

We assess our trademarks, bottler franchise rights, goodwill and other intangible assets as well as our other long-lived assets as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to determine whether they are impaired and, if they are, we record appropriate impairment charges. Our equity method investees also perform impairment tests, and we record our proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by them adjusted, as appropriate, for the impact of items such as basis differences, deferred taxes and deferred gains. It is possible that we may be required to record significant impairment charges or our proportionate share of significant impairment charges recorded by equity method investees in the future and, if we do so, our operating or equity income could be materially adversely affected.

We may incur multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities in the future, which could negatively impact our financial performance.

We participate in certain multi-employer pension plans in the United States. Our U.S. multi-employer pension plan expense totaled$41 millionin 2016. The U.S. multi-employer pension plans in which we currently participate have contractual arrangements that extend into 2021. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from any of the multi-employer pension plans in which we currently participate, we would need to record the appropriate withdrawal liabilities at that time, which could negatively impact our financial performance in the applicable periods.

If we do not successfully integrate and manage our Company-owned or -controlled bottling operations or other acquired businesses or brands, our results could suffer.

From time to time we acquire or take control of bottling operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. In addition, we routinely evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses or brands to expand our beverage portfolio and capabilities. We may incur unforeseen liabilities and obligations in connection with acquiring, taking control of or managing acquired bottling operations, other businesses or brands and may encounter unexpected difficulties and costs in restructuring and integrating them into our Company's operating and internal control structures. We may also experience delays in extending our Company's internal control over financial reporting to newly acquired or controlled bottling operations or other businesses, which may increase the risk of failure to prevent misstatements in their financial records and in our consolidated financial statements. Our financial performance depends in large part on how well we can manage and improve the performance of Company-owned or -controlled bottling operations and other acquired businesses or brands. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for such bottling operations or other acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve such objectives, our consolidated results could be negatively affected.










If we do not successfully manage our refranchising activities, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.

If we do not realize the economic benefits we anticipate from our productivity initiatives or are unable to successfully manage their possible negative consequences, our business operations could be adversely affected.

If we fail to realize a significant portion of the anticipated benefits of our strategic relationship with Monster, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

In August 2014, we entered into definitive agreements with Monster for a long-term strategic relationship in the global energy drink category, and upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the agreements in June 2015 we purchased newly issued shares representing approximately 17 percent of Monster’s issued and outstanding shares of common stock (after giving effect to the issuance). (For more information regarding our agreements with Monster and related transactions, refer to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report.) If we are unable to successfully manage our complex relationship with Monster, or if for any other reason we fail to realize all or a significant part of the benefits we expect from this strategic relationship and the related investment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

If we are unable to attract or retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce, our business could be negatively affected.

The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We may not be able to successfully compete for and attract the high-quality and diverse employee talent we want and our future business needs may require. Changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate highly skilled technical, professional and management personnel to meet our business needs. In addition, the unexpected loss of experienced and highly skilled associates due to insecurity resulting from our ongoing productivity initiatives, refranchising transactions and organizational changes could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. Any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business.










Global or regional catastrophic events, including terrorist acts, cyber-strikes and radiological attacks, could impact our operations and financial results.

Because of our global presence and worldwide operations, our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, cyber-strikes and radiological attacks, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; major natural disasters; or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impair our ability to manage our business around the world, could disrupt our supply of raw materials and ingredients, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of concentrates, syrups and finished products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic activity, which can affect consumers' purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products.



