ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview



We believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. These segments include Intermodal (JBI), Dedicated Contract Services®(DCS), Integrated Capacity Solutions (ICS), and Truck (JBT). Our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during August through early November. Our DCS segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2014, our consolidated revenue totaled $6.2 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. Of this total, 60% was generated by our JBI business segment, 22% by DCS, 12% by ICS, and 6% by JBT. For the year ended December 31, 2013, JBI represented 62%, DCS 22%, ICS 9%, and JBT 7% of our consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2012, JBI represented 61%, DCS 21%, ICS 9%, and JBT 9% of our consolidated revenue.








Additional general information about us is available at www.jbhunt.com. We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. Our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee charters, and other corporate policies. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.



Our Mission and Strategy



We forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. Working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. Our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. We believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders.



We continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management’s resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. These actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders.



Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. Our intermodal service addresses both demands. Further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySMTransport Partner.



As always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible.



operating segments



Segment information is also included in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.



JBI Segment



The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Our JBI segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. JBI draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. The origin and destination pickup and delivery services (“drayage”) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. By performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers.



JBI operates 73,298 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. The fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. We own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 65,455 units. The containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. JBI also manages a fleet of 3,916 company-owned tractors, 761 independent contractor trucks, and 4,756 company drivers. At December 31, 2014, the total JBI employee count was 5,340. Revenue for the JBI segment in 2014 was $3.7 billion.








DCS Segment



DCS focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. We specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. Our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental U.S. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. Contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to ten years, with the average being approximately five years. Pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration.



At December 31, 2014, this segment operated 6,425 company-owned trucks, 448 customer-owned trucks, and 7 independent contractor trucks. DCS also operates 13,852 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 6,664 customer-owned trailers. The DCS segment employed 9,466 people, including 7,833 drivers, at December 31, 2014. DCS revenue for 2014 was $1.4 billion.



ICS Segment



ICS provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. By leveraging the J.B. Hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and LTL, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ICS provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ICS operates 29 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers.



At December 31, 2014, the ICS segment employed 582 people, with a carrier base of approximately 39,100. ICS revenue for 2014 was $718 million.



JBT Segment



The service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. We typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. We use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers.



At December 31, 2014, the JBT segment operated 1,296 company-owned tractors and employed 1,604 people, 1,378 of whom were drivers. At December 31, 2014, we had 590 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment. JBT revenue for 2014 was $386 million.



Marketing and Operations



We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. Our customers’ business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies. We provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs.



We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. In addition, ICS utilizes its own local branch salespeople. In accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided.








People



We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. As of December 31, 2014, we had 20,158 employees, which consisted of 13,967 company drivers, 5,059 office personnel, and 1,132 maintenance technicians. We also had arrangements with approximately 1,358 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Revenue Equipment



Our JBI segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. The composition of our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS segment. Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers.



As of December 31, 2014, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 11,637 units. In addition, we had 1,358 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets. Due to our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is extremely diversified. We believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. At December 31, 2014, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.3 years, while our containers averaged 5.2 years of age and our trailers averaged 9.5 years. We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities.



Competition and the Industry



The freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. The diversified nature of the services provided by our DCS segment attracts competition from customers’ private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. The full-load freight competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country.



We compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services.



Regulation



Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the DOT. Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are subject to regulation by those countries.



In 2011, the FMCSA amended the hours-of-service (HOS) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. The remaining provisions of the amended HOS rules became effective July 1, 2013, and we experienced some negative impact on our productivity as a result. However, in December 2014, as a result of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015, the FMCSA was required to rescind the 34-hour restart provision of the amended HOS rules to the pre-July 1, 2013, requirements. Furthermore, the FMCSA was required to conduct a field study measuring the safety benefit of the amended HOS rules before and after this rule change. This rule rescission is considered temporary pending the outcome of the study. We continue to evaluate and adjust the various segments of our operations toward the ultimate impact of these changes in HOS safety requirements.








In 2011, the FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an Electronic Logging Device (ELD). The final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. Since the issuance of this proposal, we have successfully implemented a plan to replace any legacy on-board recording equipment within our fleets. At December 31, 2014, we had replaced approximately 90% of this equipment. We do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity.



In 2013, the FMCSA, in conjunction with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, submitted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. The final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. We believe this rule will have minimal implementation cost, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. We do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity.



We continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations.



