ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



OVERVIEW








We believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive edge.  These segments include intermodal (JBI), dedicated contract services (DCS), full-load dry-van (JBT) and integrated capacity solutions (ICS).  Our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during August through early November.  Our DCS segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments.  For the calendar year ended December 31, 2010, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.8 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business.  Of this total, 56% was gener
ated by our JBI business segment, 24% by DCS, 12% by JBT and 8% by ICS.



Additional general information about us is available on our Internet web site atwww.jbhunt.com.  We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our web site, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and our earnings releases.  Our web site also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee charters and other corporate policies.



OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY



We forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply chain management as an integral part of their strategy.  Working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our customers’ enterprise.  Our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach, to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service.



RECENT FOCUS



We continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers and leverage the services of our business segments.  These actions should in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders.  Unacceptable returns in certain areas have recently caused us to reduce the size of certain business segments and grow others.



Examples of our recent actions include the focus on growth of capacity associated with the JBI segment and continued contraction of the JBT business segment.  We have also concentrated on the development and operation of one of the largest nationwide, final mile cross dock networks that consists of approximately 90 service centers supporting local commercial and home delivery activities within our DCS business segment.  This network supports our goal to provide best-in-class services that increase delivery and replenishment service offerings to both residential and commercial locations.



Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions.  Our intermodal service addresses both demands.  Further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions.  Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySMTransport Partner.



As always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible.



OPERATING SEGMENTS



Segment information is also included in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.



JBI Segment



The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and Mexico.  Our JBI segment began operations in 1989 forming a unique partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company; a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment.  JBI draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps.  The origin and destination pickup and delivery services (“drayage”) are handled by our company-owned tracto
rs for the majority of our intermodal loads, while utilizing third party dray carriers where economical.  By performing our own dray services, we are able to provide a cost competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers.






JBI operates 45,666 pieces of company-controlled trailing equipment systemwide.  The fleet is primarily comprised of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality.  JBI also manages a fleet of 2,592 company-owned tractors and 3,198 company drivers that maintain our high service standards.  At December 31, 2010, the total JBI employee count was 3,533.  Revenue for the JBI segment in 2010 was $2.14 billion.



DCS Segment



DCS specializes in the design, development and execution of supply chain solutions which support a variety of transportation networks.  Our designs are developed and customized to provide assigned equipment and labor, industry-leading service levels, optimum efficiency, and cost-savings management.  DCS focuses on final mile delivery, replenishment, and specialized services supporting private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system augmentation.  We have continued to expand our specialized service offerings in the final mile delivery services with approximately 90 cross dock locations to date.  Our operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with cus
tomers and delivery specialists to ensure safe and cost-effective delivery.  Operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed cost components and fuel surcharge programs on round-trip miles.



At December 31, 2010, this segment operated 4,259 company-owned trucks, 357 customer-owned trucks, and 23 independent contractor trucks.  The DCS segment employed 6,355 people at December 31, 2010.  DCS revenue for 2010 was $907 million.



JBT Segment



The service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways.  We typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee.  We use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers.



At December 31, 2010, the JBT segment operated 1,697 company-owned tractors and employed 2,217 people, 1,865 of whom were drivers.  At December 31, 2010, we had 891 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors.  JBT revenue for 2010 was $479 million.



ICS Segment



ICS provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment.  By leveraging the J.B. Hunt brand, systems and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and LTL, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions.  ICS provides single-source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply chain, technology, and design expertise to improve efficiency.  ICS operates outside offices as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers.



At December 31, 2010, the ICS segment employed 329 people, with a carrier base of approximately 25,600.  ICS revenue for 2010 was $291 million.



Marketing and Operations



We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals.  Our customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies.  Our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage.  We provide a broad range of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of “core” carriers and those that desire a provider of complementary
 services as a way to meet all of their supply chain needs.






We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network.  We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle.  In addition, ICS utilizes its own local branch salespeople.  In accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided.



People



We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people.  As of December 31, 2010, we had 15,223 employees, which consisted of 10,172 company drivers, 3,821 office personnel and 1,230 mechanics.  We also had arrangements with approximately 1,000 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment.  None of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Revenue Equipment



Our JBI segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars.  The composition of our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers.  Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers.  We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS segment.



As of December 31, 2010, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 8,548 units.  In addition, we had approximately 1,000 independent contractors who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment.  We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets.  Due to our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is extremely diversified.  We believe that operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense.  At December 31, 2010, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.9 years, our containers averaged 4.7 years of age and our trailers ave
raged 8.7 years.  We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities.



Effective with model-year 2010 engines, the EPA has mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors.  The 2010 EPA-compliant engines are expected to have no decrease in miles per gallon and a slight increase in operating costs due to more stringent maintenance procedures compared to prior engine standards due to Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) technology, which achieves lower emissions.



Competition and the Industry



The freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive.  Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service.  Considering the diversified nature of the services provided by our DCS segment, competition ranges from large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service providers.  The full-load freight competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small.  While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all
 markets across the country.  Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers.



We compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics services.






Regulation



Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations.  The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the DOT.  Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are subject to regulation by those countries.



In December 2010, the FMCSA began reporting to the public through its web site specific safety rating and carrier ranking statistics for more than 500,000 transportation companies in connection with its Compliance Safety Accountability 2010 (CSA 2010) program.  The CSA 2010 reporting process tracks and reports data on specific carriers including moving violations, out-of-service events and on-the-road inspections.  CSA 2010 also accumulates information on commercial drivers; however individual driver information is only available to carriers and others that subscribe to a reporting service.  Our current CSA 2010 scores meet or exceed the FMCSA’s requirements for acceptable performance.  As this CSA 2010 carrier and d
river information becomes more readily available to shippers, consignees, brokers, carriers and other parties, it is expected that certain carriers and drivers will exit the transportation industry.



In December 2010, the FMCSA also issued proposed changes to the hours of service rules for commercial vehicle drivers.  Subsequent to a 60-day comment period, the FMCSA is expected to publish a final rule in July 2011, with an effective date several months later.  We believe we are in compliance with all applicable regulations.



In January 2011, the FMCSA issued a regulatory proposal regarding the required use of electronic on-board recorders (EOBR) in an effort to facilitate the reporting and enforcement of driver in-service hours.  If these types of rules are eventually implemented, certain transportation companies may be required to utilize EOBR’s.



We are in the process of evaluating all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations and will continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA.



