ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



context, “we,” “us,” “our”
and “JBHT” refer to J.B. Hunt



Our business operations are primarily
organized through four distinct, but complementary, business
segments.  These segments include intermodal (JBI), dedicated contract
services (DCS), full-load dry-van (JBT) and integrated capacity solutions
(ICS).  Our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher
freight volumes typically experienced during August through early
November.  Our DCS segment is subject to less seasonal variation than
our other segments.  For the calendar year ended December 31, 2009,
our consolidated revenue totaled $3.2 billion, after the elimination of
intersegment business.  Of this total, 55% was generated by our JBI
business segment, 24% by DCS, 14% by JBT and 7% by ICS.




Additional general information about us
is available on our Internet website atwww.jbhunt.com.  We
make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our
website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and our
earnings releases.  Our website also contains corporate governance
guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee
charters and other corporate policies.



OUR
MISSION AND STRATEGY



We forge long-term partnerships with
key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their
strategy.  Working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and
function as an extension of our customers’ enterprise.  We believe
that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits
and returns to stockholders.



RECENT
FOCUS



Our recent focus has been to maximize
the return on our invested capital and generate free cash flow to reduce
outstanding debt.  We believe we can leverage the services of our
business units for the ultimate benefit of our customers.  We
continuously analyze where capital investments yield the best return and
allocate funds to those business units and specific activities inside the
business unit.  Unacceptable returns in various areas have caused us
to reduce certain business models or exit those activities within the business
model.  Our goal is to become more asset-light in certain of the
services we provide, but to continue to grow with new and existing customers by
providing the most efficient transportation solutions to their supply
chains.  We are encouraged by the growing number of shippers using all
of our services as a way to meet their needs and feel it is positive
confirmation of our focus and goals.



Examples of steps taken to reach those goals include the continued contraction
of the JBT business unit coupled with the growth in our ICS business unit, the
expansion of our Eastern intermodal network, and the development of our new and
existing customer base.  We also continue to direct our dedicated
business unit toward providing best-in-class service in applications that
require unique and specialized services ranging from retail and small-business
replenishment to deliveries at personal residences.  A significant
step toward this goal has been the implementation of a cross-dock and delivery
system network during 2009.  By midyear 2010, we plan to manage
delivery facilities or operations that will allow us to directly serve in excess
of 90% of the U.S. population.



Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation
solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions.  Our
intermodal service addresses both demands.  We are customizing
dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon
emissions.  Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and
we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySMTransport Partner.



As always, we continue to ingrain
safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as
safely as possible.



OPERATING
SEGMENTS



Segment information is also included in
Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.



JBI
Segment



The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements
with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight
solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and
Mexico.  Our JBI segment began operations in 1989 with a unique
partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company, a watershed event in the
industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers
in a joint marketing environment.  JBI draws on the intermodal
services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment
and performs the pickups and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at the origin
and destination rail terminal locations.  We provide the drayage
service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our
company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, but utilize
third parties where economical.  Performing our own dray services
keeps costs lower and improves customer service.  JBI provides
seamless coordination of the rail and dray movements for our customers and
delivers a single billing for complete door-to-door service.




JBI operates 40,170 company-controlled
containers systemwide.  The entire fleet is comprised of 53-foot,
high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal
double-stack economics and superior ride quality.  JBI also manages a
fleet of 2,303 company-owned tractors and 2,780 company drivers that provide
efficiency to our intermodal operations.  At December 31, 2009, the
total JBI employee count was 3,078.  Revenue for the JBI segment in
2009 was $1.76 billion.



DCS
Segment



DCS offers transportation services that generally are not provided by common
truckload carriers or intermodal due to strict service requirements, specialized
equipment, and intense driver and delivery personnel demands.  Our
operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in
concert daily with the customer and our drivers to ensure that we deliver their
product or service on time in a safe and cost-effective manner.  All
operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed
cost components related to dedicated specialized equipment and fuel surcharge
programs on round-trip miles.  During 2009, we commenced the
implementation of significantly more new business than we have in any other
prior year.  As a result of this growth, our final-mile delivery
channel business became a significant part of our DCS business.



At December 31, 2009, this segment
operated 3,969 company-controlled trucks, 358 customer-owned trucks, and 31
independent contractor trucks.  The DCS segment employed 5,765 people
at December 31, 2009.  DCS revenue for 2009 was $757
million.



JBT
Segment



The
service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing
tractors operating over roads and highways.  We typically pick up
freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load
directly to the location of the consignee.  We use our company-owned
tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport
freight in our trailers.



At
December 31, 2009, the JBT segment operated 1,698 company-owned tractors and
employed 2,150 people, 1,823 of whom were drivers.  At December 31,
2009, we had 1,163 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment, some of
whom were leasing company-owned tractors.  JBT revenue for 2009 was
$447 million.



ICS
Segment



ICS provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to
customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and
integration with our owned equipment.  By leveraging the J.B. Hunt
brand, systems and network, ICS brings a broader service offering to customers
by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and LTL, as well as a variety of
dry-van and intermodal solutions.  ICS provides single-source
logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation
functions and utilize our proven supply-chain, technology, and design expertise
to improve efficiency.  ICS operates outside offices as well as
on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with
customers.



At December 31, 2009, the ICS segment
employed 323 people, with a carrier base in excess of 22,400.  ICS
revenue for 2009 was $259 million.




Marketing
and Operations



We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of
freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances,
forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and
cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals.  Our customer
base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of Fortune 500
companies.  Our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four
business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third
parties, represents a competitive advantage.  We provide a broad range
of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number
of “core” carriers and those that desire a provider of complementary services as
a way to meet all of their supply-chain needs.  We had no customers
that represented 10% or more of our total revenue in 2009.



We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and
marketing network.  We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the
length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle.  In
addition, ICS utilizes its own proactive local branch salespeople.  In
accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services
and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation
services provided.



People



We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is
our service-oriented people.  As of December 31, 2009, we had 14,171
employees, including 9,287 company drivers, 1,210 mechanics and 3,674 office
personnel.  We also had arrangements with approximately 1,200
independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing
equipment.  None of our employees is represented by unions or covered
by collective bargaining agreements.



Revenue
Equipment



Our JBI segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the
chassis and double-stacked on rail cars.  The composition of our DCS
trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include
dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks
and dump trailers.  Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot
dry-van trailers.  We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor
and trailing equipment for our ICS segment.



As of
December 31, 2009, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 7,970
units.  In addition, we had approximately 1,200 independent
contractors who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our
trailing equipment.  We operate with standardized tractors in as many
fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets.  Due to
our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is
extremely diversified.  We believe that operating with relatively
newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality
drivers and lowers maintenance expense.  At December 31, 2009, the
average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.7 years, our containers averaged
5.4 years of age and our trailers averaged 7.9 years.  We perform
routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our
regional terminal facilities.



Effective with model-year 2010 engines, the EPA has mandated lower emission
standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors.  The 2010
EPA-compliant engines are expected to have a slight increase in miles per gallon
and an increase in operating costs compared with current engine standards due to
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, which achieves lower
emissions.  At this time, we have not taken delivery of any EPA 2010
model engines, but plan on doing so later in 2010.



Competition
and the Industry



The freight transportation markets in
which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and
competitive.  Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing
companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a
portion of the transportation service.  Considering the diversified
nature of the services provided by our DCS segment, competition ranges from
large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service
carriers.  Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck
industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight
brokers, as well as full-load carriers.  The full-load freight
competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are
very small.  While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a
regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all
markets across the country.




We compete with other transportation
service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery
service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics
services.



Regulation



Our operations as a for-hire motor
carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)
and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain
business is also subject to state rules and regulations.  The DOT
periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all
federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other
information to the DOT.  Our operations into and out of Canada and
Mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries.



In November 2008, the FMCSA adopted
final provisions of the Agency’s December 17, 2007, interim final rule
concerning hours of service for commercial vehicle drivers.  This
final rule allows drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour
nonextendable window from the start of the workday, following at least 10
consecutive hours off duty.  The rule also allows motor carriers and
drivers to continue to restart calculations of weekly on-duty limits after the
driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty.  The rule was
effective January 19, 2009.  We believe we are in compliance with all
applicable regulations and continue to monitor the actions of the
FMCSA.

