
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K405




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
  [ X ]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2000

  [   ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         Commission file number:  0-20853

                                  ANSYS, Inc.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                                       04 -3219960
   (State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

  275 Technology Drive, Canonsburg, PA                           15317
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

                                 724-746-3304
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                None                                      None
        (Title of each class)            (Name of exchange on which registered)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                    Common Stock, $.01 par value per share
                               (Title of class)

    Indicate by a check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [  ]

    Indicate by a check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in PART III of this Form 10-K, or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on March
16, 2001 as reported on the NASDAQ National Market, was approximately
$159,473,105. Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by
each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been
excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination
of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.

    The number of shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per
share, outstanding as of March 16, 2001 was 14,231,568 shares.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Registrant's 2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 2, 2001 are incorporated by reference into Part
III.


Important Factors Regarding Future Results

Information provided by ANSYS, Inc. (the "Company"), including information
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or by its spokespersons may from
time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning such matters as
projected financial performance, market and industry segment growth, product
development and commercialization, acquisitions or other aspects of future
operations.  Such statements, made pursuant to the safe harbor established by
the securities laws, are based on the assumptions and expectations of the
Company's management at the time such statements are made.  The Company cautions
investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement)
is subject to risks and uncertainties.  Various important factors, including but
not limited to those discussed herein, may cause the Company's future results to
differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.
Important information about the basis for those assumptions is contained in
"Important Factors Regarding Future Results" included in Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,"
incorporated by reference to pages 12 through 21 of the Company's 2000 Annual
Report to Stockholders.  All information presented is as of December 31, 2000,
unless otherwise indicated.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1: BUSINESS

ANSYS, Inc. develops, markets and supports software solutions for design,
analysis and optimization. Engineering analysts and design engineers use the
Company's software to accelerate product time to market, reduce production
costs, improve engineering processes and optimize product quality and safety for
a variety of manufactured products. The ANSYS(R) product family features open,
flexible architecture that permits easy integration and collaboration within
customers' enterprise-wide engineering systems.

Since its founding in 1970 as Swanson Analysis Systems, Inc. ("Swanson
Analysis"), the Company has become a technology leader in the market for
computer-aided engineering ("CAE") analysis software. The Company has long-
standing relationships with customers in many industries, including automotive,
aerospace, consumer goods and electronics. Using the Company's products,
engineers can construct computer models of structures, compounds, components or
systems to simulate performance conditions and physical responses to varying
levels of stress, pressure, temperature and velocity. This helps reduce the time
and expense of physical prototyping and testing.

The Company's product line ranges from ANSYS/Multiphysics, a sophisticated
multi-disciplinary CAE tool for engineering analysts, to its DesignSpace(R)
products, innovative computer-aided design ("CAD") integrated design
optimization products for design engineers.  The Company's individual design and
analysis software programs, all of which are included in the ANSYS/Multiphysics
program, are available as subsets or standalone products. The Company's
multiphysics products, and maintenance sold in connection with those products,
comprise the core of its business and accounted for a substantial portion of the
Company's revenue in 2000, 1999 and 1998.  The Company's CAD integration
products provide design optimization tools for use directly within a particular
CAD product.  CAD integration products are accessed from the graphical user
interface of, and operate directly on the geometry produced within, the CAD
product.  The output from these programs may be read into any of the products in
the ANSYS product family. The Company's product family features a unified
database, a wide range of analysis functionality, a consistent, easy-to-use
graphical user interface, support for multiple hardware platforms and operating
systems (including Windows 98/2000, Windows NT and UNIX), effective user
customization tools and integration with leading CAD systems. The ANSYS
commercial software products are developed using the Company's ISO
9001-certified quality system.

During the year 2000, the Company acquired ICEM CFD Engineering (ICEM).  ICEM
develops and markets software for pre- and post-processing of engineering
applications such as computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and structural analysis.
ICEM's major products include ICEM CFD, the leading software for 3-D grid
generation for CFD, and Icepak, an electronics cooling simulation system created
in collaboration with Fluent, Inc.

The Company distributes and supports its products principally through its global
network of 36 independent, regional ANSYS Support Distributors ("ASDs"), which
have 60 offices in 25 countries, as well as through certain direct sales offices
and an independent network of resellers and dealers.



PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The Company makes significant investments in research and development and
emphasizes accelerated new product releases. The Company's product development
strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to
increase productivity and provide solutions that customers can integrate into
enterprise-wide engineering systems. The Company's product development efforts
focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules,
further integration with CAD products and the development of new products based
on object-oriented technology. The Company's products run on the most widely
used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows
98/2000, Windows NT and most UNIX workstations.

During 2000, the Company achieved the following with respect to major product
development activities and releases:

     .  The release of ANSYS 5.7, a new and enhanced version of the Company's
        flagship multiphysics product, and all component products. This release
        incorporates high frequency simulation enhancements for wireless
        communications; a new, faster and more efficient thermal solver for
        nonlinear transient simulation; enhanced fluid-structure simulation; a
        new, patented HTML-based report generator for quick and easy reporting
        of engineering simulation data; and a faster graphical postprocessing
        tool that enables rapid visualization of very large 3-D models.

     .  The release of  DesignSpace 5.0.2.  This software release provides
        enterprise level support for popular computer-aided design (CAD) systems
        and engineering hardware platforms. Broader and more effective
        communication capabilities for the patented engineering Web report
        technology in DesignSpace Report(TM), including multilingual reporting
        mechanisms, were also included in the release.

The Company's total research and development expense was $14.5 million, $13.5
million and $11.6 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, or 19.5%, 21.3% and 20.6% of
total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2000, the Company's product
development staff consisted of 137 full time employees, most of whom hold
advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics,
computer science or related disciplines.

The Company uses multi-functional teams to develop its products and develops
them simultaneously on multiple platforms to reduce subsequent porting costs. In
addition to developing source code, these teams create and perform highly
automated software verification tests; develop on-line documentation and support
for the products; implement development enhancement tools, software
configuration management and product licensing processes; and conduct regression
tests of ANSYS products for all supported platforms.

PRODUCT QUALITY

During 2000, the Company continued to maintain ISO 9001 certification for its
quality system. This standard applies to all of the ANSYS commercial software
products and covers all product-related activities, from establishing product
requirements to customer service practices and procedures.

In accordance with the ISO 9001 certification for its quality system, the
Company's employees perform all product development and support tasks according
to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. These plans
define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project
participants and the quality objectives to be met.  To ensure that the Company
meets or surpasses the IS0 9001 standards, the Company establishes quality plans
for all products and services, subjects product designs to multiple levels of
testing and verification and selects development subcontractors in accordance
with processes established under the Company's quality system.

SALES AND MARKETING

The Company distributes and supports its ANSYS and DesignSpace product lines
through its global ASD and reseller network, as well as through its own
strategic direct sales offices. This network provides the Company with a cost-
effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support.
The Company's ICEM CFD products are sold primarily through a direct sales force,
although a portion of ICEM's revenue is obtained through OEM agreements.
Approximately 62% of the Company's total revenue in 2000 was derived through the
ASD and reseller network.



At December 31, 2000, the ASD network consisted of 36 independent distributors
in 60 locations in 25 countries, including 13 in North America, 7 in Europe and
16 throughout the Asia-Pacific region and the remainder of the world.  The ASDs
sell ANSYS and DesignSpace products to new customers, expand installations
within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services and
provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company's ASD
certification process helps to ensure that each ASD has the ongoing capacity to
adequately represent the Company's product lines and provide an acceptable level
of training, consultation and support.

The Company also has a direct sales management infrastructure in place to
develop a more enterprise-wide focused sales approach and to implement a
worldwide major account strategy.  The sales management organization also
functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the ASD and reseller
channel, and provides additional support in strategic locations through the
presence of direct sales offices.  As of December 31, 2000, the Company's sales
management organization was headed by a North American Vice President of Sales
and an International Vice President of Sales.  In early 2001, a European Vice
President of Sales was added to the organization.  These senior members of sales
management were supported by Regional Sales Directors, devoted to the overall
management of stated sales territories, and Strategic Account Managers, devoted
to specific major accounts within those territories.

During 2000, the Company continued to invest in its previously established
strategic sales offices in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; New England;
the United Kingdom; and China.  Additionally, the Company expanded its direct
sales presence in Japan via a joint venture with the Japanese ASD and
established a strategic sales office in Southern California in the latter part
of 2000. In total, the ANSYS direct sales offices employ 35 persons who are
responsible for the sales, marketing initiatives and administration in those
geographic areas designed to support the Company's overall revenue growth and
market share expansion strategies.

During 2000, the Company also continued to expand the reseller channel for both
its ANSYS and DesignSpace products. This channel complements the ASD network by
establishing a broader user base for the Company's  products and services.  As
of December 31, 2000, the Company had signed agreements with 185 resellers.  The
resellers are required to have appropriately trained marketing and technical
personnel.

The Company's products have an installed base of approximately 68,000 seats at
commercial sites and approximately 122,000 seats at university sites worldwide.
The Company's products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small
consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies.  No single
customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's revenue in 2000.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 15
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section entitled "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2000 ("2000 Annual
Report to Stockholders"), which financial statements are included in Exhibit
13.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally, certain countries and geographical regions have continued to
experience weaknesses in their currency, banking and equity markets.  These
weaknesses could adversely affect consumer demand for the Company's products and
ultimately the Company's financial position or results of operations.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS

The Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with
advanced technology suppliers and marketing relationships with hardware vendors,
specialized application developers and CAD providers. The Company believes these
relationships allow accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the
ANSYS, DesignSpace and ICEM CFD product families, gain access to important new
markets, expand the Company's sales channels, develop specialized product
applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD systems.

The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors,
such as Autodesk, Parametric Technology Corporation, Dassault Systemes and UGS
to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of
electronic data models between the CAD system and ANSYS products.

To augment the partnerships with CAD vendors, in 2000 the Company increased its
capability for capturing and modifying geometry from CAD via a partnership with
International TechneGroup Inc.  This partnership resulted in a bundled product,
CADfix for ANSYS, that interrogates geometry for its fitness to be received by
ANSYS products and further heals problem geometry by both automatic and manual
methods.



The Company has established relationships with leading suppliers of computer
hardware, including Hewlett-Packard, Compaq, Silicon Graphics, Sun Microsystems,
IBM, Dell, Intel and various graphics card vendors.  These relationships
typically provide the Company with joint marketing opportunities such as
advertising, events and internet links with the hardware partner's home page.
In addition, the Company receives reduced equipment costs and software porting
support to ensure that the Company's software products are certified to run on
various hardware configurations.

The Company's Enhanced Solution Partner ("ESP") Program actively encourages
specialized developers of niche software solutions to use ANSYS as a development
platform for their applications.  In most cases, the sale of the Enhanced
Solution Partners' products is accompanied by the sale of an ANSYS product.

The Company partners with Inceciber, S.A. of Spain through the ESP program.
Inceciber has developed a set of high-end civil engineering simulation modules
that address the steel and concrete construction marketplace.  The bundled
products are marketed worldwide as CivilFEM for ANSYS.  The Company also
maintains a partnership with Mechanical Dynamics, Inc. ("MDI"), the goal of
which is to combine the structural analysis of DesignSpace with the motion
analysis of MDI's Dynamic Designer Motion software into one tightly integrated
modeling system.

The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Corporation
("LSTC") under which LSTC has provided LS/DYNA software for explicit dynamics
solutions used in applications such as crash test simulation in the automotive
and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of
the LS/DYNA software with the Company's pre- and post-processing capabilities
and provides updates and problem resolution in return for a share of revenue
from sales of ANSYS/LS-DYNA.

In the area of Micro Electro Mechanical Systems ("MEMS"), the Company formed an
alliance with MEMSCAP, S.A. of Grenoble, France.  The ANSYS/MEMSCAP relationship
provides multiphysical products to a variety of industries that are developing
electrostatically driven miniature MEMS devices.

COMPETITION

The CAD, CAE and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAM") markets are intensely
competitive. In the traditional CAE market, the Company's primary competitors
include MSC.Software Corporation and Hibbitt, Karlsson and Sorensen, Inc.  The
Company also faces competition from smaller vendors of specialized analysis
applications in fields such as computational fluid dynamics.  In addition,
certain integrated CAD suppliers such as Parametric Technology Corporation, SDRC
and Dassault Systemes provide varying levels of design analysis, optimization
and verification capabilities as part of their product offerings.  The entrance
of new competitors would likely intensify competition in all or a portion of the
overall CAD, CAE and CAM markets. Some of the Company's current and possible
future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other
resources than the Company, and some have well-established relationships with
current and potential customers of the Company. It is also possible that
alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share or that competition will increase as a result of software industry
consolidation. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced
profitability and loss of market share, any of which would materially adversely
affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its market
include ease of use; breadth and depth of functionality; flexibility; quality;
ease of integration into CAD systems; file compatibility across computer
platforms; range of supported computer platforms; performance; price and cost of
ownership; customer service and support; company reputation and financial
viability; and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts. Although the
Company believes that it currently competes effectively with respect to such
factors, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its
competitive position against current and potential competitors. There also can
be no assurance that CAD software companies will not develop their own analysis
software, acquire analysis software from companies other than the Company or
otherwise discontinue their relationships with the Company. If any of these
events occur, the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.



PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

The Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of
trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure
and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its
proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software under
software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses for the
use of the Company's products, which are typically nontransferable. Although the
Company distributes its products through the ASDs and the reseller channel,
license agreements for the Company's products are directly between the Company
and end users. Use of the licensed software is restricted to designated
computers at specified sites, unless the customer obtains a site license for its
use of the software. Software and hardware security measures are also employed
to prevent unauthorized use of the Company's software; and the licensed software
is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction of the
software. Customers may either purchase a paid-up perpetual license of the
technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical
support and updates, or may lease the product on an annual basis for a fee which
includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.

For certain software products such as ANSYS/ED, the Company primarily relies on
"click-wrapped" licenses.  The enforceability of these types of agreements under
the laws of certain jurisdictions is uncertain.

The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade
secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal
trademark protection for ANSYS and DesignSpace. The Company has also obtained
trademark registrations of ANSYS and DesignSpace in a number of foreign
countries and is in the process of seeking such registration in other foreign
countries.  Additionally, the Company was awarded a patent by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office for its web-based reporting technology.

The employees of the Company have signed a covenant agreement under which they
have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information, or to
engage in or become connected with any business which is competitive with the
Company anywhere in the world, while employed by the Company (and, in some
cases, for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology
created by them during their term of employment are the property of the Company.
In addition, the Company requires all ASDs and resellers to enter into
agreements not to disclose the Company's trade secrets and other proprietary
information.

Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of
the Company's technology will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that
copyright and trade secret protection will be available for the Company's
products in certain countries, or that restrictions on competition will be
enforceable.

The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological
change.  Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological
and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product
enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are more
important to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position than
the various legal protections of its technology which may be available.

The Company is not aware that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary
rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties
will not claim in the future such infringement by the Company or its licensors
or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects
that software product developers will increasingly be subject to such claims as
the number of products and competitors in the Company's market segment grow and
the functionality of products in different market segments overlaps.  Any such
claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly
litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into
royalty or licensing agreements.  Such royalty or licensing agreements, if
required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.

BACKLOG

The Company generally ships its products within 30 days after acceptance of an
order and execution of a software license agreement.  Accordingly, the Company
does not believe that its backlog at any particular point in time is indicative
of future sales levels.



EMPLOYEES

As of  December 31, 2000, the Company had 368 full time employees. At that date,
there were also approximately 21 contract personnel and co-op students providing
ongoing development services and technical support. The Company believes that
its relationship with its employees is good.


ITEM 2: PROPERTIES

The Company's executive offices and those related to product development,
marketing, production and administration are located in a 107,000 square foot
office facility in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, which is leased for an annual rent
of approximately $1,227,000.  The Company also leases office space in various
locations throughout the world.  ANSYS's  subsidiaries lease office space for
their operations as well.  The Company owns substantially all equipment used in
its facilities.  Management believes that its facilities allow for sufficient
space to support not only its present needs, but also allow for expansion and
growth as the business may require in the foreseeable future.


ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings from time to time that arise
in the ordinary course of business activities.  Each of these matters is subject
to various uncertainties, and it is possible that these matters may be resolved
unfavorably to the Company.


ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2000.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 41
and the section captioned "Corporate Information" appearing in the Company's
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 1 of
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 12
through 21 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, including the
Important Factors Regarding Future Results.

ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company has no long-term debt obligations. Less than 7% of the
Company's total assets as of December 31, 2000 were denominated in currencies
other than the U.S. Dollar. Accordingly, the Company has no material exposure
to foreign currency exchange risk. This materiality assessment is based on the
assumption that the foreign currency exchange rates could change unfavorably by
10%. The Company has no foreign currency exchange contracts.

Based on the nature of the Company's business, it has no direct exposure to
commodity price risk.

ITEM 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 22
through 39 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



                                   PART III

ITEM 10: DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information concerning the Company's directors and executive officers
required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the Company's 2001 Proxy
Statement and is set forth under "Information Regarding Directors" and
"Information Regarding Executive Officers" therein.


ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2001 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Executive Compensation"
therein.


ITEM 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2001 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Principal and Management
Stockholders" therein.


ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2001 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Certain Transactions"
therein.

                                    PART IV


ITEM 14: EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents Filed as Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

     1.  Financial Statements:  The following Consolidated Financial Statements
         of ANSYS, Inc. and Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent
         Accountants, are incorporated by reference to pages 22 through 39 of
         the Registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders:

                -  Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Accountants
                -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
                -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                   December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                   December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
                   ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


     2.  Financial Statement Schedules: The following financial statement
         schedule for ANSYS, Inc. and report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
         independent accountants, are filed on page 13 of this Annual Report and
         should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
         Statements of ANSYS, Inc.

                Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement
                Schedule

                Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


         Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not
         applicable or are not required or the information required to be set
         forth therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
         Notes thereto.



     3.  Exhibits:

         The Exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index immediately
         following the financial statement schedule are filed as part
         of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

The Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K/A with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 8, 2000 to report financial statements and pro
forma information related to its August 31, 2000 acquisition of Pacific
Marketing and Consulting, Inc.


(c) Exhibits

The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the Exhibits
listed in the attached Exhibit Index on page 11 of this Annual Report.


(d)  Financial Statement Schedules

The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 14 (a) 2 as set forth above.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              ANSYS, Inc.

Date:  March 23, 2001         By: /S/  James E. Cashman III
                                  --------------------------------------.
                                           James E. Cashman III
                                  President and Chief Executive Officer


Date:  March 23, 2001         By: /S/  Maria T. Shields
                                  --------------------------------------.
                                              Maria T. Shields
                                            Chief Financial Officer,
                                  Vice President, Finance and Administration


                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints James E. Cashman III, his or her attorney-in-
fact, with the power of substitution, for such person in any and all capacities,
to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated below.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------




                      Report of Independent Accountants on
                          Financial Statement Schedule



To the Board of Directors of
ANSYS, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 30, 2001 appearing in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of
ANSYS, Inc. and Subsidiaries (which report and consolidated financial statements
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.



/S/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- ------------------------------
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 30, 2001


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                                  ANSYS, INC.

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




