
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     Commission file number:  0-20853

                                  ANSYS, Inc.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                      DELAWARE                         04-3219960
          (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
           incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)

        275 Technology Drive, Canonsburg, PA             15317
      (Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip Code)

                                 724-746-3304
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

               None                                      None
       (Title of each class)             (Name of exchange on which registered)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                    Common Stock, $.01 par value per share
                               (Title of class)

       Indicate by a check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
     required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
     registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
     such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

       Indicate by a check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
     Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
     contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
     or information statements incorporated by reference in PART III of this
     Form 10-K, or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

       The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
     the Registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on
     March 17, 2000 as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, was approximately
     $118,452,250. Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and
     by each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have
     been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This
     determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive
     determination for other purposes.

       The number of shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, par value $.01 per
     share, outstanding as of March 17, 2000 was 16,116,716 shares.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

       Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
     December 31, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.
     Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Registrant's 2000 Annual Meeting of
     Stockholders to be held on May 2, 2000 are incorporated by reference into
     Part III.



Important Factors Regarding Future Results

Information provided by ANSYS, Inc. (the "Company"), including information
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or by its spokespersons may from
time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning such matters as
projected financial performance, market and industry segment growth, product
development and commercialization, acquisitions or other aspects of future
operations. Such statements, made pursuant to the safe harbor established by the
securities laws, are based on the assumptions and expectations of the Company's
management at the time such statements are made. The Company cautions investors
that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject
to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors, including but not limited
to those discussed herein, may cause the Company's future results to differ
materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Important
information about the basis for those assumptions is contained in "Important
Factors Regarding Future Results" included in Item 7 "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," incorporated by
reference to pages 10 through 17 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders. All information presented is as of December 31, 1999, unless
otherwise indicated.

                                    PART I

ITEM 1:   BUSINESS

ANSYS, Inc. develops, markets and supports software solutions for design,
analysis and optimization. Engineering analysts and design engineers use the
Company's software to accelerate product time to market, reduce production
costs, improve engineering processes and optimize product quality and safety for
a variety of manufactured products. The ANSYS(R) product family features open,
flexible architecture that permits easy integration and collaboration within
customers' enterprise-wide engineering systems.

Since its founding in 1970 as Swanson Analysis Systems, Inc. ("Swanson
Analysis"), the Company has become a technology leader in the market for
computer-aided engineering ("CAE") analysis software. The Company has long-
standing relationships with customers in many industries, including automotive,
aerospace, consumer goods and electronics. Using the Company's products,
engineers can construct computer models of structures, compounds, components or
systems to simulate performance conditions and physical responses to varying
levels of stress, pressure, temperature and velocity. This helps reduce the time
and expense of physical prototyping and testing.

The Company's product line ranges from ANSYS/Multiphysics, a sophisticated
multi-disciplinary CAE tool for engineering analysts, to its DesignSpace(R)
products, innovative computer-aided design ("CAD") integrated design
optimization products for design engineers. The Company's individual design and
analysis software programs, all of which are included in the ANSYS/Multiphysics
program, are available as subsets or standalone products. The Company's
multiphysics products, and maintenance sold in connection with those products,
comprise the core of its business and accounted for a substantial portion of the
Company's revenue in 1999, 1998 and 1997. The Company's CAD integration products
provide design optimization tools for use directly within a particular CAD
product. CAD integration products are accessed from the graphical user interface
of, and operate directly on the geometry produced within, the CAD product. The
output from these programs may be read into any of the products in the ANSYS
product family. The Company's product family features a unified database, a wide
range of analysis functionality, a consistent, easy-to-use graphical user
interface, support for multiple hardware platforms and operating systems
(including Windows 98, Windows NT and UNIX), effective user customization tools
and integration with leading CAD systems. The Company's products are developed
using the Company's ISO 9001-certified quality system.

The Company markets its products principally through its global network of 29
independent regional ANSYS Support Distributors ("ASDs"), which have 56 offices
in 22 countries.


PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The Company makes significant investments in research and development and
emphasizes accelerated new product releases. The Company's product development
strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to
increase productivity and provide solutions that customers can integrate into
enterprise-wide engineering systems. The Company's product development efforts
focus on extensions of the ANSYS product family with new functional modules,
further integration with CAD products and the development of new products based
on object-oriented technology. The Company's products run on the most widely
used engineering computing platforms



and operating systems, including Windows 98, Windows NT and most UNIX
workstations, as well as on supercomputers such as the Cray.

During 1999, the Company achieved the following with respect to major product
development activities and releases:

  .  The release of ANSYS 5.6, a new and enhanced version of the Company's
     flagship multiphysics product, and all component products. This release
     incorporates major enhancements for modeling contact, plasticity, creep and
     elastomeric material behavior, along with significant advances to the
     solver options.

  .  The release of DesignSpace 5.0. This software release provides significant
     technological advancements for the upfront simulation of product designs,
     including, most notably, the addition of assembly analysis functionality.
     Additional functionality in this release includes an enhanced reporting
     tool, interface improvements, enhanced thermal analysis and natural
     frequency analysis.

  .  The introduction of ANSYS/Professional, an intermediate analysis product
     that provides a toolkit for structural and thermal simulation. The
     Mechanical Toolbar graphical user interface enables advanced analysis
     without the use of extensive commands and protocols.

The Company's total research and development expense was $13.5 million, $11.6
million and $11.0 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, or 21.3%, 20.6% and 21.8% of
total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 1999, the Company's product
development staff consisted of 114 full time employees, most of whom hold
advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics,
computer science or related disciplines.

The Company uses multi-functional teams to develop its products and develops
them simultaneously on multiple platforms to reduce subsequent porting costs.
In addition to developing source code, these teams create and perform highly
automated software verification tests; develop on-line documentation and support
for the products; implement development enhancement tools, software
configuration management and product licensing processes; and conduct regression
tests of ANSYS products for all supported platforms.

PRODUCT QUALITY

During 1999, the Company continued to maintain ISO 9001 certification for its
quality system. This standard applies to all of the Company's commercial
software products and covers all product-related activities, from establishing
product requirements to customer service practices and procedures.

In accordance with the ISO 9001 certification for its quality system, the
Company's employees perform all product development and support tasks according
to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. These plans
define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project
participants and the quality objectives to be met. To ensure that the Company
meets or surpasses the IS0 9001 standards, the Company establishes quality plans
for all products and services, subjects product designs to multiple levels of
testing and verification and selects development subcontractors in accordance
with processes established under the Company's quality system.

SALES AND MARKETING

The Company distributes and supports its ANSYS and DesignSpace product lines
primarily through its global ASD and reseller network. This network provides the
Company with a cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and
technical support. Approximately 70% of the Company's revenue in 1999 was
derived through the ASD and reseller network.

At December 31, 1999, the ASD network consisted of 29 independent distributors
in 56 locations in 22 countries, including 12 in North America, 6 in Europe and
11 throughout the Asia-Pacific region and the remainder of the world. The ASDs
sell ANSYS and DesignSpace products to new customers, expand installations
within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services and
provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company's ASD
certification process helps to ensure that each ASD has the ongoing capacity to
adequately represent the Company's product line and provide an acceptable level
of training, consultation and support.

The Company also has a sales management infrastructure in place to develop a
more enterprise-wide focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major
account strategy.  The sales management organization also functions as a focal
point for requests to ANSYS from the ASD and reseller channel, and provides
additional support in



strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices. As of December
31, 1999, the Company's sales management organization was headed by a Vice
President of Worldwide Sales, a North American Vice President of Sales and an
International Vice President of Sales. These senior members of sales management
were supported by Regional Sales Directors, devoted to the overall management of
stated sales territories, and Strategic Account Managers, devoted to specific
major accounts within those territories.

During 1999, the Company continued to invest in its previously established
strategic sales offices in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; New England;
the United Kingdom; China and Japan.  In total, these offices employ 30 persons
who are responsible for the implementation of sales and marketing initiatives
and administration in those geographic areas designed to support the Company's
overall revenue growth and market share expansion strategies.

During 1999, the Company also continued to expand the reseller channel for both
its ANSYS and DesignSpace products. This channel complements the ASD network by
establishing a broader user base for the Company's products and services. As of
December 31, 1999, the Company had signed agreements with 143 resellers. The
resellers are required to have appropriately trained marketing and technical
personnel.

The Company's products have an installed base of approximately 62,000 seats at
commercial sites and approximately 109,000 seats at university sites worldwide.
The Company's products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small
consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies. No single customer
accounted for more than 1.2% of the Company's revenue in 1999.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 14
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section entitled "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,1999 ("1999 Annual
Report to Stockholders"), which financial statements are included in Exhibit
13.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally, countries in certain international regions have continued to
experience weaknesses in their currency, banking and equity markets. These
weaknesses could adversely affect consumer demand for the Company's products and
ultimately the Company's financial position or results of operations.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS

The Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with
advanced technology suppliers and marketing relationships with hardware vendors,
specialized application developers and CAD providers. The Company believes these
relationships allow it to accelerate the incorporation of advanced technology
into the ANSYS product family, gain access to important new markets, expand the
Company's sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide
direct integration with leading CAD systems.

The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors,
such as Autodesk, Parametric Technology Corporation, SolidWorks and Unigraphics
to provide direct links between the vendors' CAD packages. These links
facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD system and
ANSYS products.

To augment the partnerships with CAD vendors, in 1999 the Company increased its
capability for capturing and modifying geometry from CAD via a partnership with
International TechneGroup Inc. This partnership resulted in a bundled product,
CADfix for ANSYS, that interrogates geometry for its fitness to be received by
ANSYS products and further heals problem geometry by both automatic and manual
methods.

The Company has established relationships with leading suppliers of computer
hardware, including Hewlett-Packard, Compaq, Silicon Graphics, Sun Microsystems,
Intergraph, IBM, Dell, Intel and various graphics card vendors. These
relationships typically provide the Company with joint marketing opportunities
such as advertising, events and internet links with the hardware partner's home
page. In addition, the Company receives reduced equipment costs and software
porting support to ensure that the Company's software products are certified to
run on various hardware configurations.

The Company's Enhanced Solution Partner ("ESP") Program actively encourages
specialized developers of niche software solutions to use ANSYS as a development
platform for their applications. In most cases, the sale of the Enhanced
Solution Providers' products is accompanied by the sale of an ANSYS product.

The Company partners with Inceciber, S.A. of Spain through the ESP program.
Inceciber has developed a set of high-end civil engineering simulation modules
that address the steel and concrete construction marketplace. The



bundled products are marketed worldwide as CivilFEM for ANSYS. The Company also
recently announced a partnership with Mechanical Dynamics, Inc. ("MDI"), the
goal of which is to combine the structural analysis of DesignSpace with the
motion analysis of MDI's Dynamic Designer Motion software into one tightly
integrated modeling system.

The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Corporation
("LSTC") under which LSTC has provided LS/DYNA software for explicit dynamics
solutions used in applications such as crash test simulation in the automotive
and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of
the LS/DYNA software with the Company's pre- and post-processing capabilities
and provides updates and problem resolution in return for a share of revenue
from sales of ANSYS/LS-DYNA.

In the area of MicroElectro Mechanical Systems ("MEMS"), the Company formed an
alliance with MEMScAP, S.A. of Grenoble, France. The ANSYS/MEMScAP relationship
provides multiphysical products to a variety of industries that are developing
electrostatically driven miniature MEMS devices.

COMPETITION

The CAD, CAE and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAM") markets are intensely
competitive. In the traditional CAE market, the Company's primary competitors
include MSC.Software Corporation and Hibbitt, Karlsson and Sorensen, Inc. The
Company also faces competition from smaller vendors of specialized analysis
applications in fields such as computational fluid dynamics. In addition,
certain integrated CAD suppliers such as Parametric Technology Corporation,
Structural Dynamics Research Corporation and Dassault Systemes provide varying
levels of design analysis and optimization and verification capabilities as part
of their product offerings. The entrance of new competitors would likely
intensify competition in all or a portion of the overall CAD, CAE and CAM
markets. Some of the Company's current and possible future competitors have
greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company,
and some have well-established relationships with current and potential
customers of the Company. It is also possible that alliances among competitors
may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or that competition will
increase as a result of software industry consolidation. Increased competition
may result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share,
any of which would materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial
condition and results of operations.

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting its market
include ease of use; flexibility; quality; ease of integration into CAD systems;
file compatibility across computer platforms; range of supported computer
platforms; performance; price and cost of ownership; customer service and
support; company reputation and financial viability; and effectiveness of sales
and marketing efforts. Although the Company believes that it currently competes
effectively with respect to such factors, there can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to maintain its competitive position against current and
potential competitors. There also can be no assurance that CAD software
companies will not develop their own analysis software, acquire analysis
software from companies other than the Company or otherwise discontinue their
relationships with the Company. If any of these events occur, the Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected.


PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

The Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of
trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure
and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its
proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its ANSYS software
under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses for
the use of the Company's products, which are typically nontransferable. Although
the Company distributes its products primarily through the ASDs, license
agreements for the Company's products are directly between the Company and end
users. Use of the licensed software is restricted to designated computers at
specified sites, unless the customer obtains a site license for its use of the
software. Software and hardware security measures are also employed to prevent
unauthorized use of the Company's software; and the licensed software is subject
to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction of the software.
Customers may either purchase a paid-up perpetual license of the technology with
the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and
updates, or may lease the product on an annual basis for a fee which includes
the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.

For certain software products such as DesignSpace and ANSYS/ED, the Company
primarily relies on "click-wrapped" licenses. The enforceability of these types
of agreements under the laws of certain jurisdictions is uncertain.



The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade
secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal
trademark protection for ANSYS and DesignSpace. The Company has also obtained
trademark registrations of ANSYS and DesignSpace in a number of foreign
countries and is in the process of seeking such registration in other foreign
countries. Additionally, the Company has been recently notified that the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office intends to issue a patent for the Company's web-
based reporting technology.

The employees of the Company have signed a Covenant Agreement under which they
have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information, or to
engage in or become connected with any business which is competitive with the
Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and in some cases
for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created
by them during their term of employment is the property of the Company. In
addition, the Company requires all ASDs and resellers to enter into agreements
not to disclose the Company's trade secrets and other proprietary information.

Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of
the Company's technology will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that
copyright and trade secret protection will be available for the Company's
products in certain countries, or that restrictions on competition will be
enforceable.

The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological
change. Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological
and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product
enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are more
important to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position than
the various legal protections of its technology which may be available.

The Company is not aware that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary
rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties
will not claim in the future such infringement by the Company or its licensors
or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects
that software product developers will increasingly be subject to such claims as
the number of products and competitors in the Company's market segment grow and
the functionality of products in different market segments overlaps. Any such
claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly
litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into
royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if
required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.

BACKLOG

The Company generally ships its products within 30 days after acceptance of an
order and execution of a software license agreement. Accordingly, the Company
does not believe that its backlog at any particular point in time is indicative
of future sales levels.

EMPLOYEES

As of  December 31, 1999, the Company had 280 full time employees. At that date,
there were also approximately 21 contract personnel and co-op students providing
ongoing development services and technical support. The Company believes that
its relationship with its employees is good.


ITEM 2:   PROPERTIES

The Company's executive offices and those related to product development,
marketing, production and administration are located in a 107,000 square foot
office facility in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, which is leased for an annual rent
of approximately $1,227,000. The Company also leases office space in various
locations throughout the world. ANSYS's subsidiaries lease office space for
their operations as well. The Company owns substantially all equipment used in
its facilities. Management believes that its facilities allow for sufficient
space to support not only its present needs, but also allow for expansion and
growth as the business may require in the foreseeable future.


ITEM 3:   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings from time to time that arise
in the ordinary course of business activities. Each of these matters is subject
to various uncertainties, and it is possible that these matters may be resolved
unfavorably to the Company.



ITEM 4:   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 1999.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5:   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 35
and the section captioned "Corporate Information" appearing in the Company's
1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 6:   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 1 of
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 7:   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 10
through 17 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, including the
Important Factors Regarding Future Results.


ITEM 8:   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 18
through 34 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 9:   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information concerning the Company's directors and executive officers
required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the Company's 2000 Proxy
Statement and is set forth under "Information Regarding Directors" and
"Information Regarding Executive Officers" therein.


ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2000 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Executive Compensation"
therein.


ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2000 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Principal and Management
Stockholders" therein.



ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 2000 Proxy Statement and is set forth under "Certain Transactions"
therein.

                                    PART IV


ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents Filed as Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

     1.   Financial Statements: The following Consolidated Financial Statements
          of ANSYS, Inc. and Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent
          Accountants, are incorporated by reference to pages 18 through 33 of
          the Registrant's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders:

               -  Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Accountants
               -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
               -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December
                  31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
               -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                  December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
               -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
                  ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
               -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


     2.   Financial Statement Schedules: The following financial statement
          schedule for ANSYS, Inc. is filed on page 12 of this Annual Report and
          should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
          Statements of ANSYS, Inc.

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


          Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not
          applicable or are not required or the information required to be set
          forth therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
          Notes thereto.

     3.   Exhibits:

          The Exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index immediately
          following the financial statement schedule are filed as part of, or
          incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

The Registrant did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of
the period covered by this Annual Report.


(c)  Exhibits

The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the Exhibits
listed in the attached Exhibit Index on page 10 of this Annual Report.


(d)  Financial Statement Schedules

The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 14 (a) 2 as set forth above.



                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   ANSYS, Inc.

Date: March 20, 2000               By:  /s/ James E. Cashman III
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                                  James E. Cashman III
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer


Date: March 20, 2000               By:  /s/ Maria T. Shields
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                                    Maria T. Shields
                                               Chief Financial Officer,
                                      Vice President, Finance and Administration


                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints James E. Cashman III, his or her
attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for such person in any and all
capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated below.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------









                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                                  ANSYS, INC.

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts





