ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tyler Technologies, Inc. (“Tyler”) is a major provider of integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector, with
a focus on local governments. We partner with clients to make local government more accessible to the public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its operations. We have a broad line of software solutions and services to
address the information technology (“IT”) needs of virtually every major area of operation for cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. Most of our customers have our software installed in-house. For customers who
prefer not to physically acquire the software and hardware, we provide many of our applications under subscription-based applications service provider (“ASP”) arrangements. We provide professional IT services to our customers, including
software and hardware installation, data conversion, training and, at times, product modifications. In addition, we are the nation’s largest provider of outsourced property appraisal services for taxing jurisdictions. We also provide continuing
customer support services to ensure product performance and reliability, which provides us with long-term customer relationships and a significant base of recurring maintenance revenue.

Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to 1998, we operated as a diversified industrial conglomerate, with operations in various industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been divested.
In 1997, we embarked on a multi-phase growth plan focused on serving the specialized information management needs of local governments nationwide. In 1998 and 1999, we entered the local government IT market through a series of strategic acquisitions
of companies in the local government IT market.

MARKET OVERVIEW

The state and local government market is one of the largest and most decentralized IT markets in the country, consisting of all 50 states, approximately 3,000 counties, 36,000 cities and towns and 13,900
school districts. This market is also comprised of approximately 37,000 special districts and other agencies, each with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information management requirements.

Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the staff necessary to support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to establish long-term relationships with reliable
providers of high quality IT products and services such as Tyler.

Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their
operations, their primary revenue sources are usually property taxes, and to a lesser extent, utility billings and other fees, which historically tend to be relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of new technology typically enables local
governments to operate more efficiently, and often provides a measurable return on investment that justifies the purchase of software and related services.

Gartner estimates that state and local government software applications and vertical specific software spending will grow from $12.5 billion in 2012 to $13.3 billion in 2015. The professional services and
support segments of the market, where our business is primarily focused, is expected to expand from $32.8 billion in 2012 to $36.2 billion in 2015. Software sales in the primary and secondary education segments of the market is expected to expand
from $2.2 billion in 2012 to $2.8 billion in 2015 while professional services and support are expected to grow from $2.3 billion in 2012 to $2.6 billion in 2015.







PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We provide a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services that addresses the information technology needs of cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. We derive our
revenues from five primary sources:



•sales of software licenses;



•subscription-based arrangements;



•software services;



•maintenance and support; and



•appraisal services.

We
design, develop and market a broad range of software solutions to serve mission-critical “back-office” functions of local governments. Many of our software applications include Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public
access to a variety of information or that allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet. Our software solutions and services are generally grouped in three major areas:



•Financial Management and Education;



•Courts and Justice; and



•Property Appraisal and Tax and Other.

Each of our core software systems consists of several fully integrated application modules. For customers who acquire the software for use in-house, we generally license our systems under standard
perpetual license agreements that provide the customer with a fully paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financial management and education and property appraisal and tax, we offer
multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of different sized governments.

We also offer certain software solutions on a “software as
a service” basis for customers who do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies. For these customers, we host the applications and data at our
data centers or at third-party locations. Customers typically sign multi-year contracts for these subscription-based services.

Historically,
we have had a greater proportion of our annual revenues in the second half of our fiscal year due to governmental budget and spending cycles and the timing of system implementations for customers desiring to “go live” at the beginning of
the calendar year.

A description of our suites of products and services follows:

Software Licenses

Financial Management and Education

Our financial management and education solutions are Enterprise Resource Planning systems for local governments, which integrate information across all
facets of a client organization. Our financial management solutions include modular fund accounting systems that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any government agency or not-for-profit entity. Our financial management systems include
modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets, requisitions, purchase orders, bid management, accounts payable, contract management, accounts receivable, investment management, inventory control, project and grant accounting, work
orders, job costing, GASB 34 reporting, payroll and human resources. All of our financial management systems are intended to conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and generally accepted accounting principles.

We sell utility billing systems that support the billing and collection of metered and non-metered services, along with multiple billing
cycles. Our Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow customers to access information online such as average consumption and transaction history. In addition, our systems can accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.







We also offer specialized products that automate numerous city functions, including municipal courts,
parking tickets, equipment and project costing, animal licenses, business licenses, permits and inspections, code enforcement, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance billing, fleet maintenance, and cemetery records management.

In addition to providing financial management systems to K-12 schools, we sell student information systems for K-12 schools, which manage such activities
as scheduling, grades and attendance. We also offer student transportation solutions to manage school bus routing optimization, fleet management, field trips and other related functions. We also sell software applications to manage public sector
pension funds.

Tyler’s financial management and education solutions include Web components that enhance local governments’ service
capabilities by facilitating online access to information for both employees and citizens and enabling online transactions.

Courts and
Justice

We offer a complete, fully integrated suite of judicial solutions designed to handle complex, multi-jurisdictional county or
statewide implementations as well as single county systems. Our solutions help eliminate duplicate data entry, promote more effective business procedures and improve efficiency across the entire justice process.

Our unified court case management system is designed to automate the tracking and management of information involved in all case types, including
criminal, traffic, civil, family, probate and juvenile courts. It also tracks the status of cases, processes fines and fees and generates the specialized judgment and sentencing documents, notices and forms required in the court process. Documents
received by the court can be scanned into the electronic case file and easily retrieved for viewing. Documents generated by the court can be electronically signed and automatically attached to the electronic case file. Additional modules automate
the management of court calendars, coordinate judge’s schedules and generate court dockets. Our targeted courtroom technologies allow courts to rapidly review calendars, cases and view documents in the courtroom. Courts may also take advantage
of our related jury management system.

Our law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from dispatch and records management
through booking and jail management. Searching, reporting and tracking features are integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date access to current arrest and incarceration data, including digital mug shots. Our systems also provide warrant checks for
visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of statistics and state and federal reporting. Our computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 system tracks calls and the
availability of emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and assists dispatchers with processing emergency situations. The law enforcement and jail management systems are fully integrated with prosecution and other
court products that manage the entire judicial process.

Our court and law enforcement systems allow the public to access, via the Internet, a
variety of information, including non-confidential criminal and civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond and bondsmen information, and court calendars and dockets. In addition, our systems allow cities and counties to accept
payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet, with a seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial systems.

Our prosecutor system enables state attorney offices to track and manage criminal cases, including detailed victim information and private case notes. Investigative reports and charging instrument
documents can be generated and stored for later viewing. Prosecutors can schedule and record the outcome of grand jury hearings. When integrated with the court system, prosecutors can view the electronic case file and related documents, as well as
manage witness lists and subpoenas needed for court hearings.

Our supervision system allows pre-trial and probation offices to manage
offender caseloads. Supervision officers can track contact schedules, risk/needs assessments and reassessments, detailed drug test results, employment histories, compliance with conditions and payments of fees and restitution. Documents and forms,
like pre-sentence investigations or revocation orders, can be generated and stored for easy viewing. When integrated with the jail and court systems, supervision officers can have easy access and quick notification of offenders that have court
hearings scheduled, are arrested locally and have new warrants issued.

We also offer a court case management solution that automates and
tracks all aspects of municipal courts and offices. It is a fully integrated, graphical application that provides effective case management, document processing and cash/bond management. This system complies with all state reporting and conviction
reports and includes electronic reporting and also integrates with certain of our financial management solutions and public safety solutions. Our public safety solution for municipalities includes more than thirty essential law enforcement, criminal
investigation, and administration record management modules. The public safety solution







manages information such as arrests and field interviews, traffic reports and citations, and incident and offense reports. It also supports multimedia files, photo lineups, multi-agency security
and incident workflow and streamlines mandatory reporting to local, state and federal offices.

Property Appraisal and Tax and Other

We provide systems and software that automate the appraisal and assessment of real and personal property, including record keeping, mass
appraisal, inquiry and protest tracking, appraisal and tax roll generation, tax statement processing, and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are image and video-enabled to facilitate the storage of and access to the many
property-related documents and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in defending values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are available for agencies that bill and collect taxes, including cities,
counties, school tax offices, and special taxing and collection agencies. These systems support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage company electronic payments, and various reporting requirements.

We also offer a number of specialized software applications designed to help county governments enhance and automate courthouse operations. These systems
record, scan and index information for the many documents maintained at the courthouse, such as deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates). These applications include fully integrated
imaging systems with batch and scan processing capabilities and fully integrated receipting and cashiering systems as well as Web-enabled public access.

Subscription-Based Services

Subscription-based services revenue primarily consists of
revenues derived from application service provider (“ASP”) arrangements and other hosted service offerings, software subscriptions and disaster recovery services. Our ASP arrangements and other hosted service offerings provide certain
software solutions on a “software as a service” basis for customers who do not wish to maintain, update and operate these systems or to make large up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies.

ASP arrangements and other hosting services are typically contracted for a period of three to six years. Other software subscriptions and disaster
recovery service arrangements are typically under annual contracts. The majority of the ASP and other hosting services and software subscriptions also include professional services and maintenance and support services. In certain ASP arrangements,
the customer also acquires a license to the software.

We also provide electronic document filing solutions (e-filings) for courts and law
offices which simplify the filing and management of court related documents. Revenues for e-filings are included in subscription-based revenues and are generally derived from transaction fees.

Software Services

We provide a variety
of professional IT services to customers who utilize our software products. Virtually all of our customers contract with us for installation, training, and data conversion services in connection with their purchase of Tyler’s software
solutions. The complete implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data conversion, set-up and testing. At the culmination of the implementation process, an installation team travels to the customer’s facility to
ensure the smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are charged separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending on the contract.

Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing basis, we provide extensive training services and programs related to our products and services. Training can be provided in our
training centers, onsite at customers’ locations, or at meetings and conferences, and can be customized to meet customers’ requirements. The vast majority of our customers contract with us for training services, both to improve their
employees’ proficiency and productivity and to fully utilize the functionality of our systems. Training services are generally billed on an hourly or daily basis, along with travel and other expenses.







Maintenance and Support

Following the implementation of our software systems, we provide ongoing software support services to assist our customers in operating the systems and to periodically update the software. Support is
provided over the phone to customers through help desks staffed by our customer support representatives. For more complicated issues, our staff, with the customers’ permission, can log on to customers’ systems remotely. We maintain our
customers’ software largely through releases that contain improvements and incremental additions, along with updates necessary because of legislative or regulatory changes.

Virtually all of our software customers contract with us for maintenance and support, which provides us with a significant source of recurring revenue. We generally provide maintenance and support under
annual contracts, with a typical fee based on a percentage of the software product’s license fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as new license fees increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in
advance for the entire maintenance contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically renew unless the customer or Tyler gives notice of termination prior to expiration. Similar support is provided to our ASP customers, and is included in
their subscription fees which are classified as subscription-based revenues.

Appraisal Services

We are the nation’s largest provider of property appraisal outsourcing services for local government taxing authorities. These services include:



•the physical inspection of commercial and residential properties;



•data collection and processing;



•sophisticated computer analyses for property valuation;



•preparation of tax rolls;



•community education regarding the assessment process; and



•arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction.

Local government taxing authorities normally reappraise properties from time to time to update values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity in the taxing process. In some jurisdictions,
reassessment cycles are mandated by law; in others, they are discretionary. While some taxing jurisdictions perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this function because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized
knowledge and expertise requirements associated with it. Our appraisal services business unit has been in this business since 1938.

In some
instances, we also sell property tax and/or appraisal software products in connection with appraisal outsourcing projects, while other customers may only engage us to provide appraisal services. Appraisal outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal
in nature to the extent that winter weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in connection with those projects.

STRATEGY

Our objective is to grow our revenue
and earnings internally, supplemented by focused strategic acquisitions. The key components of our business strategy are to:



•Provide high quality, value–added products and services to our clients.We compete on the basis of, among other things, delivering to
customers our deep domain expertise in local government operations through the highest value products and services in the market. We believe we have achieved a reputation as a premium product and service provider to the local government market.



•Continue to expand our product and service offerings.While we already have what we believe to be the broadest line of software products for
local governments, we continually upgrade our core software applications and expand our complementary product and service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the changing needs of our clients. For example, we offer solutions that
allow the public to access data and conduct transactions with local governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and utility bills, and filing court documents via the Internet. We believe that the addition of such features enhances
the market appeal of our core products. Since 2001, we have also offered many of our software products under an ASP or other software as a subscription-based service model which we believe will, over time, have increasing appeal to local governments
and will be expanded to include more applications. We have also broadened our offerings of consulting and business process reengineering services.







•Expand our customer base.We seek to establish long-term relationships with new customers primarily through our sales and marketing efforts.
While we currently have customers in all 50 states, Canada, the Caribbean, and the United Kingdom, not all of our solutions have achieved nationwide geographic penetration. We intend to continue to expand into new geographic markets by adding sales
staff and targeting marketing efforts by solutions in those areas. We also intend to continue to expand our customer base to include more large governments. While our traditional market focus has primarily been on small and mid-sized governments,
our increased size and market presence, together with the technological advances and improved scalability of certain of our solutions, are allowing us to achieve success in selling to larger customers.



•Expand our existing customer relationships.Our existing customer base offers significant opportunities for additional sales of solutions and
services that we currently offer, but that existing customers do not fully utilize. Add-on sales to existing customers typically involve lower sales and marketing expenses than sales to new customers.



•Grow recurring revenues.We have a large recurring revenue base from maintenance and support and subscription-based services, which generated
revenues of $177.7 million, or 57% of total revenues, in 2011. We have historically experienced very low customer turnover (approximately 2% annually) and recurring revenues continue to grow as the installed customer base increases. In addition,
subscription-based revenues has been our fastest growing revenue category over the past five years, increasing from $7.3 million in 2006 to $31.2 million in 2011.



•Maximize economies of scale and take advantage of financial leverage in our business.We seek to build and maintain a large client base to
create economies of scale, enabling us to provide value-added products and services to our customers while expanding our operating margins. Because we sell primarily “off-the-shelf” software, increased sales of the same solutions result in
incrementally higher gross margins. In addition, we believe that we have a marketing and administrative infrastructure in place that we can leverage to accommodate significant long-term growth without proportionately increasing selling, general and
administrative expenses.



•Attract and retain highly qualified employees.We believe that the depth and quality of our operating management and staff is one of our
significant strengths, and that the ability to retain such employees is crucial to our continued growth and success. We believe that our stable management team, financial strength and growth opportunities, as well as our leadership position in the
local government market, enhance our attractiveness as an employer for highly skilled employees.



•Pursue selected strategic acquisitions.While we expect to primarily grow internally, from time to time we selectively pursue strategic
acquisitions that provide us with one or more of the following:



•new products and services to complement our existing offerings;



•entry into new markets related to local governments; and



•new customers and/or geographic expansion.



•Establish strategic alliances.In January 2007 we announced a strategic alliance with Microsoft Corporation to jointly develop core public
sector functionality for Microsoft Dynamics AX to address the unique accounting needs of public sector organizations worldwide. As part of this alliance we are enhancing Microsoft Dynamics AX with public sector-specific functionality. The
arrangement will broaden the functionality of Microsoft Dynamics AX, providing both Tyler and Microsoft with a public sector accounting platform to support their existing and prospective clients well into the future. In the fourth quarter of 2009 we
expanded our arrangement with Microsoft to include payroll, human resource and budget functionality. Microsoft Dynamics AX with public sector functionality was released to the market in August 2011 and is being sold in the United States and
internationally through Microsoft’s distribution channels. Tyler is also now an authorized Microsoft reseller for the Microsoft Dynamics solutions developed under this arrangement, and we are selling the solutions directly into the government
market. Tyler receives license and maintenance royalties on direct and indirect sales of the solutions co-developed under this multi-year term relationship.







SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products and services through direct sales and marketing personnel located throughout the United States. Other in-house sales staff focuses on add-on sales, professional services and
support.

Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other government offices or departments within a county or
municipality, referrals from other local governments, relationships established between sales representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows, direct mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with us. We are
active in numerous national, state, county, and local government associations, and participate in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational events.

Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school districts and other local government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector, county
clerk, district clerk, county and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and county appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from various departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public
works, code enforcement, personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police. Contracts for software products and services are generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing maintenance and support
update agreements thereafter. Although either the customer or we can terminate these agreements, historically almost all support and maintenance agreements are automatically renewed annually. Contracts for appraisal outsourcing services are
generally one to three years in duration. During 2011, approximately 47% of our revenue was attributable to ongoing support and maintenance agreements.

COMPETITION

SUPPLIERS

Substantially all of the computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software, office automation software, and other equipment necessary
for the implementation and provision of our software systems and services are presently available from several third-party sources. Hardware is purchased on original equipment manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. We have not
experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

At December 31, 2011, our estimated revenue backlog was approximately $339.8 million, compared to $281.4 million at December 31, 2010. The backlog represents signed contracts under which the
revenue has not been recognized as of year-end. Approximately $228.4 million or 67%, of the backlog is expected to be recognized during 2012.







INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

We regard certain features of our internal operations, software, and documentation as confidential and proprietary and rely on a combination of
contractual restrictions, trade secret laws and other measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We generally do not rely on patents. We believe that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the computer software industry,
trade secrets and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as knowledge, ability and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality of support services. We typically license our software
products under non-exclusive license agreements which are generally non-transferable and have a perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2011, we had 2,091 employees. Appraisal outsourcing projects are cyclical in nature and can be widely dispersed geographically. We
often hire temporary employees to assist in these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project’s completion. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We
consider our relations with our employees to be positive.

INTERNET WEBSITE AND AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly, current and other reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and other
information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of this site ishttp://www.sec.gov.

We also maintain an Internet site atwww.tylertech.com. We make available free of charge through this site our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Forms 4 and 5, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In
addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge upon written request.

Our “Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics” is also available on our Web site. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our Web site.

