ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL



We are a
diversified energy company and successor to the company founded in 1906 known as
Oklahoma Natural Gas Company.  Our common stock is listed on the NYSE
under the trading symbol “OKE.”  We are the sole general partner and,
as of December 31, 2009, we owned 45.1 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE:
OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited
partnerships.  As a result of ONEOK Partners’ February 2010 public
offering of common units, we own a 42.8 percent aggregate equity
interest.  ONEOK Partners is a leader in the gathering, processing,
storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States.  In
addition, ONEOK Partners owns one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids
systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions
with key market centers.  We are the largest natural gas distributor
in Oklahoma and Kansas and the third largest natural gas distributor in Texas,
providing service as a regulated public utility to wholesale and retail
customers.  Our largest distribution markets are Oklahoma City and
Tulsa, Oklahoma; Kansas City, Wichita and Topeka, Kansas; and Austin and El
Paso, Texas.  Our energy services operation is engaged in providing
premium natural gas marketing services to its customers across the United
States.



DESCRIPTION
OF BUSINESS



We report
operations in the following business segments:

·ONEOK
      Partners;

·Distribution;
      and

·Energy
      Services.



Business
Strategy



Our
primary business strategy is to deliver consistent growth and sustainable
earnings, while focusing on safe, reliable, environmentally responsible and
legally compliant operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the
public through the following:

·increasing
      distributable cash flow at our ONEOK Partners segment through a
      combination of strategic acquisitions and growth
  projects;

·increasing
      operating income within our Distribution segment through rate strategies,
      rate base growth and operating efficiencies, while targeting our allowed
      return on equity;

·continuing
      our focus on our key markets in our Energy Services
    segment;

·executing
      strategic acquisitions; and

·managing
      our balance sheet to maintain strong credit ratings at or above current
      investment-grade levels.



ONEOK Partners- ONEOK
Partners’ primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to
pay quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders and to increase those
distributions over time.  ONEOK Partners’ ability to maintain and grow
its distributions to unitholders depends on, among other things, the growth of
its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions.  ONEOK Partners
plans to continue pursuing internal growth opportunities and strategic
acquisitions related to gathering, processing, fractionating, transporting,
storing and marketing natural gas and NGLs that will utilize its core
capabilities, minimize commodity price risk and provide long-term, sustainable
and stable cash flows.  ONEOK Partners’ strategy focuses on
maintaining stable cash flows and earnings through predominantly fee-based
income and by managing commodity price and spread risk.



Distribution- Our integrated
strategy for our LDCs incorporates a rates and regulatory plan that includes
positive relationships with regulators, consistent strategies and synchronized
rate case filings.  We focus on growth of our customer count and rate
base through efficient investment in our system while emphasizing safety and
cost control.  We provide customer choice programs designed to reduce
volumetric sensitivity and create value for our customers.



Energy Services- Our Energy
Services segment creates value by providing premium services to our customers in
delivering physical and risk management products and services through our
network of contracted gas supply and contracted transportation and storage
assets.  We optimize our storage and transportation capacity through the
daily application of market knowledge and effective risk
management.



-5
- -


Outlook



We expect
a moderate economic recovery in 2010, with inflationary pressures beginning in
2011.  Although recent volatility in the financial markets could limit
our access to financial markets on a timely basis or increase our cost of
capital in the future, we anticipate improved credit markets during 2010,
compared with 2009; however, inflation risks may increase the cost of
capital.  We anticipate the consolidation of underperforming assets in
the industry, particularly those with high commodity price exposure and/or high
levels of debt.  Additionally, we anticipate an improving commodity
price environment during 2010, compared with 2009.



ONEOK Partners- ONEOK
Partners intends to pursue continued growth in its natural gas businesses
through well connections and contract renegotiations and through new plant
construction, expansions and extensions of its existing systems and
plants.  For its natural gas liquids business, ONEOK Partners will continue
to focus on adding new supply connections and expanding existing assets. 
ONEOK Partners plans to spend approximately $362 million on capital expenditures
in 2010, of which approximately $278 million is expected to be for growth
projects.  ONEOK Partners may also pursue strategic acquisitions
related to gathering, processing, fractionating, storing, transporting or
marketing natural gas and NGLs.



Distribution- In our
Distribution segment, we plan to grow our asset base through efficient capital
investment in infrastructure and technology and increase the level of
sustainable earnings.



Energy Services- In our
Energy Services segment, we will continue our emphasis on generating recurring
margins by providing premium products and services to our core LDC and electric
utility customers, while maintaining the focus on our contracted level of
long-term storage and transportation contracts supporting these premium
services.  We will use our competitive position of long-term
contracted assets to extract incremental value through the daily optimization of
those assets.  Additionally, we will use our risk management expertise
to establish base margins and capture incremental margins related to location
and seasonal differences.



SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENTS



Capital Projects- ONEOK Partners placed
thefollowing projects in-service during 2009:

·Guardian
      Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline expansion and extension
      project;

·Williston
      Basin natural gas processing plant
expansion;

·Arbuckle
      natural gas liquids pipeline;

·D-J
      Basin lateral natural gas liquids pipeline;
and

·Piceance
      lateral natural gas liquids
pipeline.



For
further discussion of these projects, see “Capital Projects” beginning on page
38.

ONEOK Partners’ Equity
Issuances- In July 2009, ONEOK Partners completed an underwritten public
offering of 5,486,690 common units, including the partial exercise by the
underwriters of their over-allotment option, at $45.81 per common unit,
generating net proceeds of approximately $241.6 million.  In
conjunction with the offering, ONEOK Partners GP contributed an aggregate of
$5.1 million to ONEOK Partners in order to maintain its 2 percent general
partner interest.  ONEOK Partners used the proceeds from the sale of
common units and the general partner contributions to repay borrowings under its
existing ONEOK Partners Credit Agreement and for general partnership
purposes.



In
February 2010, ONEOK Partners completed an underwritten public offering of
5,500,900 common units, including the partial exercise by the underwriters of
their over-allotment option, at $60.75 per common unit, generating net proceeds
of approximately $322.6 million.  In conjunction with the offering, ONEOK
Partners GP contributed $6.8 million in order to maintain its 2 percent general
partner interest.  ONEOK Partners used the proceeds from the sale of common
units and the general partner contribution to repay borrowings under the ONEOK
Partners Credit Agreement and for general partnership purposes.  As a
result of these transactions, we hold a 42.8 percent aggregate equity interest
in ONEOK Partners.



ONEOK Partners’ Debt Issuance- - In March 2009, ONEOK Partners completed an underwritten public offering of
$500 million aggregate principal amount of 8.625 percent Senior Notes due
2019.  ONEOK Partners used the net proceeds of approximately $494.3
million from the offering to repay indebtedness outstanding under the ONEOK
Partners Credit Agreement.



-6
- -


SEGMENT
FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Operating Income, Customers and Total
Assets- See Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
this Annual Report for operating income by segment and for a discussion of
revenues from external customers under “Customers” and disclosure of total
assets by segment within the “Operating Segment Information” table.



Intersegment Revenues- The
following table sets forth the percentage of sales between operating segments to
total revenues, for the periods and segments indicated:

Years
      Ended December 31,Percentage
      of Intersegment Revenues to Total Revenue200920082007ONEOK
      Partners7%10%11%Distribution***Energy
      Services9%8%7%*
      Represents a value of less than 1 percent.



See Note
N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for
additional information about intersegment revenues.



NARRATIVE
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



ONEOK
Partners



Ownership- We own
approximately 42.4 million common and Class B limited partner units, and the
entire 2 percent general partner interest, which, together, represented a 45.1
percent ownership interest in ONEOK Partners as of December 31,
2009.  As a result of ONEOK Partners’ February 2010 public offering of
common units, we own a 42.8 percent aggregate equity interest in ONEOK
Partners.  We receive distributions from ONEOK Partners on our common
and Class B units and our 2 percent general partner interest.  See
Note R of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report
for discussion of our incentive distribution rights.



Business Strategy- ONEOK
Partners’ primary business objectives are to pay quarterly cash distributions to
its unitholders and to increase those distributions over time.  ONEOK
Partners plans to accomplish these objectives while focusing on safe,
environmentally responsible and legally compliant operations for its customers,
employees, contractors and the public through the following:

·growing
      fee based earnings;

·developing
      and executing internally generated growth
  projects;

·executing
      strategic acquisitions; and

·managing
      its balance sheet to maintain its strong credit ratings at or above
      current investment-grade levels.



Description of Business- Our
ONEOK Partners segment is engaged in the gathering and processing of natural gas
and gathering, transportation and fractionation of NGLs, primarily in the
Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions, which include the Anadarko Basin of
Oklahoma, Fort Worth Basin of Texas, Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of
Kansas; and the Williston Basin of Montana and North Dakota and the Powder River
Basin of Wyoming, respectively.  These operations include the
gathering of natural gas produced from crude oil and natural gas
wells.  Through gathering systems, natural gas is aggregated and
treated or processed for removal of water vapor, solids and other contaminants,
and to extract NGLs in order to provide marketable natural gas, commonly
referred to as residue gas.  When the NGLs are separated from the
unprocessed natural gas at the processing plants, the NGLs are generally in the
form of a mixed, unfractionated NGL stream.  In the Powder River
Basin, the natural gas that ONEOK Partners gathers is coal bed methane, or dry
gas, that does not require processing or NGL extraction, in order to be
marketable; dry gas is gathered, compressed and delivered into a downstream
pipeline or marketed for a fee.



Revenue
from the gathering and processing business is primarily derived from the
following three types of contracts:

·Percent
      of Proceeds - ONEOK Partners retains a percentage of the NGLs and/or a
      percentage of the residue gas as payment for gathering, treating,
      compressing and processing the producer’s natural gas.  This
      type of contract represented approximately 50 percent and 62 percent of
      gathering and processing net margin for 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

·Fee
      - ONEOK Partners is paid a fee for the services it provides based on Btus
      gathered, treated, compressed and/or processed.  This type of
      contract represented approximately 35 percent and 23 percent of gathering
      and processing net margin for 2009 and 2008,
  respectively.



-7
- -


·Keep-Whole
      - ONEOK Partners extracts NGLs from unprocessed natural gas and returns to
      the producer volumes of residue gas containing the same amount of Btus as
      the unprocessed natural gas that was originally delivered.  This
      type of contract represented approximately 15 percent of gathering and
      processing net margin for both 2009 and 2008, with approximately 84
      percent and 89 percent of that contracted volume, respectively, containing
      language that effectively converts these contracts into fee contracts when
      the gross processing spread is
negative.



ONEOK
Partners also gathers, treats, fractionates, transports and stores
NGLs.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering pipelines deliver
unfractionated NGLs gathered from natural gas processing plants located in
Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas and the Rocky Mountain region to fractionators it owns
in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.  The NGLs are then separated through
the fractionation process into the individual NGL products that realize the
greater economic value of the NGL components.  The individual NGL
products are then stored or distributed to petrochemical manufacturers, heating
fuel users, refineries and propane distributors through ONEOK Partners’
FERC-regulated distribution pipelines that move NGL products from Oklahoma and
Kansas to the market centers in Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas, as well
as the Midwest markets near Chicago, Illinois.



Revenue
for the natural gas liquids business is primarily derived from the following
types of services:

·Exchange
      services - ONEOK Partners gathers and transports unfractionated NGLs to
      its fractionators, where they are separated into marketable NGL products
      and redelivered to a market center for a
fee;

·Optimization
      and marketing - ONEOK Partners uses its asset base, portfolio of contracts
      and market knowledge to capture location and seasonal price differentials
      through transactions that optimize the flow of its NGL products between
      the major market centers in Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas, as
      well as markets near Chicago,
Illinois;

·Isomerization
      - ONEOK Partners converts normal butane to the more valuable iso-butane
      used by the refining industry to increase the octane of motor
      gasoline;

·Storage
      services - ONEOK Partners stores NGLs for a fee;
  and

·Transportation
      - ONEOK Partners transports NGLs under its FERC-regulated
      tariffs.



ONEOK
Partners operates interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines,
natural gas storage facilities and non-processable natural gas gathering
facilities.  ONEOK Partners also provides natural gas transportation
and storage services in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy
Act.  ONEOK Partners’ interstate assets transport natural gas through
FERC-regulated interstate natural gas pipelines that access supply from Canada
and from the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast
regions.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas pipeline assets are
located in Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas, and have access to major natural gas
producing areas in those states.  ONEOK Partners owns underground
natural gas storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.



ONEOK
Partners’ revenues from its natural gas pipelines are typically derived from fee
services under the following types of contracts:

·Firm
      service - Customers can reserve a fixed quantity of pipeline or storage
      capacity for the terms of their contracts.  Under this type of
      contract, the customer pays a fixed fee for a specified quantity
      regardless of their actual usage and is generally guaranteed access to the
      capacity they reserve; and

·Interruptible
      service - Customers with interruptible service transportation and storage
      agreements may utilize available capacity after firm-service requests are
      satisfied or on an as available basis.  Under the interruptible
      service contract, the customer is not guaranteed use of our pipelines and
      storage facilities unless excess capacity is
  available.



The main
factors that affect ONEOK Partners’ margins are:

·NGL
      transportation and fractionation volumes and associated
    fees;

·natural
      gas processing, gathering, transportation and storage volumes and
      associated fees;

·weather
      impacts on demand and operations;

·the
      Mid-Continent, Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain natural gas price, crude oil
      price and the daily average OPIS price for its products
    sold;

·the
      relative value of ethane to natural gas;
and

·regional
      and seasonal natural gas and NGL product price
    differentials.



Market Conditions and
Seasonality-Supply- ONEOK
Partners’ business is affected by the economy, commodity price volatility and
weather.  The strength of the economy has a direct relationship on
manufacturing and industrial companies’ demand for natural gas and NGL
products.  Volatility in the commodity markets impacts the decisions
of ONEOK Partners’ customers related to the output from natural gas wells,
storage activity for natural gas and natural gas liquids, and demand for the
various NGL products.  In addition, its natural gas liquids pipelines
and fractionation facilities are affected by operational or market-driven
changes in the output of the gas processing plants to which they are
connected.  Natural gas and NGL



-8
- -


output
from gas processing plants may increase or decrease, affecting the quality of
natural gas and volume of NGLs transported through the systems, as a result of
the gross processing spread, which is the difference between the relative Btu
value of the composite price of NGLs and the Btu value of natural gas, primarily
ethane and natural gas.  In addition, volumes delivered through the
system may increase or decrease as a result of the relative NGL price between
the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.  Natural gas transportation
throughput fluctuates due to rainfall that impacts irrigation demand, warmer
temperatures that affect power generation demand and cooler temperatures that
affect heating demand.



Natural
gas and NGL supply is affected by rig availability, operating capability and
producer drilling activity, which is sensitive to commodity prices, exploration
success, available capital and regulatory control.  Higher crude oil
prices in the second half of 2009 and advances in horizontal drilling and
completion technology are having a positive impact on drilling activity in the
shale areas, providing an offset to the less favorable supply projections in the
non-shale areas.



Additionally,
significant factors that can impact the supply of Canadian natural gas
transported by ONEOK Partners’ pipelines are the Canadian natural gas available
for export, Canadian storage capacity and demand for Canadian natural gas in
other U.S. consumer markets.



Demand-Demand for gathering
and processing services is typically aligned with the production of natural
gas.  ONEOK Partners’ plant operations can be adjusted to respond to
market conditions, such as demand for ethane.  By changing operating
parameters at certain plants, ONEOK Partners can reduce, to some extent, the
amount of ethane and propane recovered if prices or processing margins are
unfavorable.



Demand
for natural gas pipeline transportation service and natural gas storage is
directly related to demand for natural gas in the markets that the natural gas
pipelines and storage facilities serve, and is affected by weather, the economy,
and natural gas price volatility.  The effect of weather on ONEOK
Partners’ natural gas pipelines operations is discussed below under
“Seasonality.”  The strength of the economy directly impacts
manufacturing and industrial companies that consume natural
gas.  Commodity price volatility can influence customers’ decisions
related to the usage of natural gas versus alternative fuels and natural gas
storage injection and withdrawal activity.



Demand
for NGLs and the ability of natural gas processors to successfully and
economically sustain their operations impacts the volume of unfractionated NGLs
produced by natural gas processing plants, thereby affecting the demand for
natural gas liquids gathering, fractionation and distribution
services.  Natural gas and propane are subject to weather-related
seasonal demand.  Other NGL products are affected by economic
conditions and the demand associated with the various industries that utilize
the commodity, such as butanes and natural gasoline, which are used by the
refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denaturant for ethanol and
diluents for crude oil.  Ethane/propane mix, propane, normal butane
and natural gasoline are used by the petrochemical industry to produce chemical
products, such as plastic, rubber and synthetic fiber.



Commodity Prices-
During 2009 and 2008, both crude oil and natural gas prices were volatile, with
NYMEX crude oil settlement prices ranging from $33.87 to $79.09 per Bbl in 2009,
compared with $49.62 to $134.62 per Bbl in 2008.  NYMEX natural gas
settlement prices ranged from $2.84 to $6.14 per MMBtu in 2009, compared with
$6.47 to $13.11 per MMBtu in 2008.



Seasonality- Some of
ONEOK Partners’ products, such as natural gas and propane used for heating, are
subject to seasonality, resulting in more demand during the months of November
through March.  As a result, prices of these products are typically
higher during that time period.  Demand has also increased for natural
gas in the summer periods, as more electric generation is now dependent upon
natural gas as a fuel.



Competition- ONEOK
Partners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids businesses compete directly with
other companies for natural gas and NGL supplies, markets and
services.  Competition for natural gas transportation services
continues to increase as the FERC and state regulatory bodies continue to
encourage more competition in the natural gas markets.  Competition is
based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and
forward natural gas and NGL prices and proximity to supply areas and
markets.  ONEOK Partners believes that its assets enable it to
effectively compete.



-9
- -


ONEOK
Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business competes for natural gas
supplies with independent exploration and production companies that have
gathering and processing assets, pipeline companies and their affiliated
marketing companies, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors,
and marketers in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions.  ONEOK
Partners’ natural gas liquids business competes with other fractionators,
storage providers, gatherers and transporters for NGL supplies in the Rocky
Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.  The factors that
typically affect ONEOK Partners’ ability to compete for natural gas and NGL
supplies are:

·fees
      charged under its contracts;

·pressures
      maintained on its gathering
systems;

·location
      of its assets relative to those of its
  competitors;

·location
      of its assets relative to drilling
activity;

·efficiency
      and reliability of its operations;
and

·receipt
      and delivery capabilities that exist in each system, plant, fractionator
      and storage location.



ONEOK
Partners is responding to these industry conditions by making capital
investments to access new supplies, increase gathering, fractionation, storage
and transportation capacity, increase storage, withdrawal and injection
capabilities, improve natural gas processing efficiency and reduce operating
costs, evaluating consolidation opportunities to maximize earnings, selling
assets in non-core operating areas and renegotiating unprofitable
contracts.  The principal goal of the contract renegotiation effort is
to eliminate unprofitable contracts and improve margins, primarily during
periods when the gross processing spread is negative.



Government Regulation- The
FERC has traditionally maintained that a processing plant is not a facility for
the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and,
therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas
Act.  Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the
jurisdictional status of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing operations or
facilities, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plants are primarily involved
in removing NGLs and, therefore, ONEOK Partners believes, its natural gas
processing plants are exempt from FERC jurisdiction.  The Natural Gas
Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the
FERC.  ONEOK Partners believes its gathering facilities and operations
meet the criteria used by the FERC for non-jurisdictional gathering facility
status.  However, ONEOK Partners is subject to newly adopted FERC
regulations that require it to publicly post certain gas flow information on
ONEOK Partners’ Web sites.  Interstate transmission facilities remain
subject to FERC jurisdiction.  The FERC has historically distinguished
between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a
fact-specific basis.  ONEOK Partners transports residue gas from its
plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural
Gas Policy Act.



Oklahoma,
Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, in
various degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states.  In
each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is
filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory
agency.



ONEOK
Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines are regulated under the Natural Gas
Act and Natural Gas Policy Act, which give the FERC jurisdiction to regulate
virtually all aspects of the pipeline activities.  ONEOK Partners’
intrastate natural gas transportation assets in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are
regulated by the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively.  ONEOK Partners has
flexibility in establishing natural gas transportation rates with
customers.  However, there are maximum rates that ONEOK Partners can
charge its customers in Oklahoma and Kansas.



ONEOK
Partners’ proprietary natural gas liquids gathering pipelines, fractionation and
storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are not regulated by the FERC
or the states’ respective corporation commissions.  ONEOK Partners’
remaining natural gas liquids gathering and distribution pipelines are
interstate pipelines regulated by the FERC.  ONEOK Partners transports
unfractionated NGLs and NGL products pursuant to filed tariffs.



See
further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters”
section.



Unconsolidated Affiliates-
Our ONEOK Partners segment has the following unconsolidated
affiliates:

·50
      percent interest in Northern Border Pipeline, an interstate,
      FERC-regulated pipeline which transports natural gas from the
      Montana-Saskatchewan border near Port of Morgan, Montana, to a terminus
      near North Hayden, Indiana;

·49
      percent ownership interest in Bighorn Gas Gathering, L.L.C., which
      operates a major coal bed methane gathering system serving a broad
      production area in northeast
Wyoming;

·37
      percent ownership interest in Fort Union Gas Gathering, which gathers coal
      bed methane gas produced in the Powder River Basin and delivers natural
      gas into the interstate pipeline
grid;



-10
- -


·35
      percent ownership interest in Lost Creek Gathering Company, L.L.C., which
      gathers natural gas produced from conventional wells in the Wind River
      Basin of central Wyoming and delivers natural gas into the interstate
      pipeline grid;

·10
      percent ownership interest in Venice Energy Services Co., LLC, a gas
      processing complex near Venice,
Louisiana;

·50
      percent ownership interest in Chisholm Pipeline Company, which operates an
      interstate natural gas liquids pipeline system extending approximately 185
      miles from origin points in Oklahoma and
Kansas;

·50
      percent ownership interest in the Heartland joint venture, which operates
      a terminal and pipeline systems that transport refined petroleum products
      in Kansas, Nebraska and Iowa; and

·48
      percent ownership interest in Sycamore Gas System, which is a gathering
      system with compression located in south central
  Oklahoma.



See Note
P of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for
additional discussion of unconsolidated affiliates.



Distribution



Business Strategy-Our Distribution segment
focuses on increasing the level of sustainable earnings through safe, reliable,
environmentally responsible and legally compliant natural gas distribution
operations.



The
integrated strategy for our LDCs incorporates:

·a
      rates and regulatory strategy that includes fostering positive
      relationships with regulators and synchronized rate case filings among our
      LDCs;

·a
      focus on the growth of our customer count and rate base through efficient
      investment in our system, while emphasizing safety and cost control;
      and

·providing
      customer programs designed to reduce volumetric sensitivity and create
      value for our customers.



Our
regulatory strategy incorporates rate features that provide strategies to reduce
earnings lag, protect margin and mitigate risks.  These strategies
include performance-based rate mechanisms in Oklahoma and capital-recovery
mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas.  In Texas, we also have
cost-of-service adjustments in certain markets served that address investments
in rate base and changes in expense.  Margin protection strategies
include increased customer fixed charges in all three states, as well as weather
normalization mechanisms.  Risk mitigation strategies include
fuel-related bad-debt recovery mechanisms in Oklahoma, Kansas and portions of
Texas.



Description of Business- Our
Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to more than two
million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas through Oklahoma Natural Gas,
Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service, respectively, each a division of
ONEOK.  We serve residential, commercial, industrial and
transportation customers in all three states.  In addition, our
distribution companies in Oklahoma and Kansas serve wholesale
customers.



Our
operating results are primarily affected by the number of customers, usage and
the ability to collect delivery rates that provide a reasonable rate of return
on our investment and recovery of our cost of service.  Natural gas
costs are passed through to our customers based on the actual cost of gas
purchased by the respective distribution companies and related
expenses.  Substantial fluctuations in natural gas sales can occur
from year to year without materially or adversely impacting our net margin,
since the fluctuations in natural gas costs affect natural gas sales and cost of
gas by an equivalent amount.  Higher natural gas costs may cause
customers to conserve or, in the case of industrial customers, to use
alternative energy sources.  Higher natural gas costs may also
adversely impact our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher
bad-debt expense.  Recovery of the fuel-related portion of bad debts
is allowed in all three states.



The rate
structure for Oklahoma Natural Gas includes two service rate options for
residential gas sales customers.  Customers with usage greater than 50
dekatherms per month pay a fixed monthly service charge with no volumetric
delivery fee, while customers with usage less than 50 dekatherms per month pay a
lower monthly service charge coupled with a per dekatherm delivery
charge.



Oklahoma
Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service distribute natural gas as
public utilities to approximately 87 percent, 70 percent and 13 percent of the
distribution markets for Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas,
respectively.  Natural gas sold to residential and commercial
customers accounts for approximately 80 and 19 percent of natural gas sales,
respectively, in Oklahoma; 76 and 19 percent of natural gas sales, respectively,
in Kansas; and 69 and 23 percent of natural gas sales, respectively, in
Texas.



-11
- -


Market Conditions and
Seasonality-Supply- Our
Distribution segment purchased 169 Bcf and 182 Bcf of natural gas supply in 2009
and 2008, respectively.  Our gas supply portfolio consists of
long-term, seasonal and short-term contracts from a diverse group of
suppliers.  These contracts are awarded through competitive bid
processes to ensure reliable and competitively priced gas supply.  Our
Distribution segment’s natural gas supply is purchased from a combination of
direct wellhead production, natural gas processing plants, natural gas marketers
and production companies.



We are
responsible for acquiring sufficient natural gas supplies, interstate and
intrastate pipeline capacity and storage capacity to meet customer
requirements.  As such, we must contract for both reliable and
adequate supplies and delivery capacity to our distribution system, while
considering: (i)the dynamics of the
interstate and intrastate pipeline and storage capacity market; (ii) our peaking
facilities and storage and contractual commitments; and (iii)the demand
characteristics of our customer base.



An
objective of our supply sourcing strategy is to diversify our supply among
multiple production areas and suppliers.  This strategy is designed to
protect receipt of supply from being curtailed by physical interruption,
possible financial difficulties of a single supplier, natural disasters and
other unforeseen force majeure events.



We do not
anticipate problems with securing natural gas supply to satisfy customer
demand.  However, if supply shortages occur, each of our LDCs has
curtailment tariff provisions in place that provide for: (i) reducing or
discontinuing gas service to large industrial users; and (ii) requesting that
residential and commercial customers reduce their gas requirements to an amount
essential for public health and safety.  In addition, during times of
critical supply problems, curtailments of deliveries to customers with firm
contracts may be made in accordance with guidelines established by appropriate
federal, state and local regulatory agencies.



Natural
gas supply requirements are affected by changes in the natural gas consumption
pattern of our customers that are driven by factors other than
weather.  Economic conditions impact usage of commercial and
industrial customers.  Natural gas usage per residential customer may
decline as customers change their consumption patterns in response to: (i) more
volatile and higher natural gas prices, as discussed above; (ii)customers’ improving
the energy efficiency of existing homes by replacing doors and windows and
adding insulation, along with retrofitting natural gas appliances with more
efficient appliances; (iii) more energy-efficient construction; and (iv) fuel
switching.  In each jurisdiction in which we operate, changes in
customer usage profiles have been reflected in recent rate case proceedings
where rates have been adjusted to reflect current customer usage.



In
December 2007, Oklahoma Natural Gas was authorized by the OCC to implement a
natural gas hedging program as a three-year pilot program, with up to $10
million per year in hedge costs to be recovered from
customers.  Kansas Gas Service has a natural gas hedging program in
place, which was approved as a permanent program by the KCC in 2005 and is
subject to annual KCC review.  The program is designed to reduce
volatility in the natural gas price paid by consumers.  The costs of
this program are borne by the Kansas Gas Service customers.  Texas Gas
Service also has a natural gas hedging program for certain of its
jurisdictions.



In
managing our gas supply portfolios, we partially mitigate gas price volatility
using a combination of financial derivatives and the triggering of forward
prices on certain gas supply contracts.  Our Distribution segment does
not utilize financial derivatives for speculative purposes nor does it have
trading operations.  In addition, we utilized 34.3 Bcf of contracted
storage capacity in 2009, which allows gas to be purchased during the off-peak
season and stored for use in the winter periods.



Demand- See
discussion below under “Seasonality” and “Competition” for factors affecting
demand.



Seasonality- Natural
gas sales to residential and commercial customers are seasonal, as a substantial
portion of their natural gas is used for heating.  Accordingly, the
volume of natural gas sales is normally higher during the months of November
through March than in other months of the year.  The impact on margins
resulting from weather that is above or below normal is substantially offset
through weather normalization adjustments (WNA), which are now approved by the
regulatory authorities for all of our Oklahoma and Kansas service
territories.  WNA allows us to increase customer billing to offset
lower gas usage when weather is warmer than normal and decrease customer billing
to offset higher gas usage when weather is colder than normal.  In
2009, approximately 94 percent of Texas Gas Service’s margins were protected
from abnormal weather due to a higher customer charge and/or WNA
clauses.



Competition-We can face competition
based on customers’ preference for natural gas compared with other energy
products, and the comparative prices of those products.  The most
significant product competition occurs between natural gas and electricity in
the residential and small commercial markets.  We compete for heating,
cooking and other general energy



-12
- -


needs. 
Customers and builders typically make the decision on the type of equipment to
install at initial installation and use the chosen energy source for the life of
the equipment.  The markets in our service territories have become
increasingly competitive.  Changes in the competitive position of
natural gas relative to electricity and other energy products have the potential
of causing a decline in consumption or in the number of future natural gas
customers.



However,
recent studies have demonstrated that assessing energy efficiency in terms of
full-cycle analysis highlights the high overall efficiency of natural gas as a
preferred fuel in residential and commercial uses, compared with
electricity.  These studies may have a positive impact on the
promotion of natural gas for these primary uses as national energy and
environmental policies and standards are reshaped.



We
believe that we must maintain a competitive advantage in order to retain our
customers, and, accordingly, we focus on providing safe, reliable, efficient
service and controlling costs.  Our Distribution segment is subject to
competition from other pipelines for our existing industrial
load.  Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service
compete for service to large industrial and commercial customers, and
competition has and may continue to impact margins.



Under our
transportation tariffs, qualifying industrial and commercial customers are able
to purchase their natural gas commodity from the supplier of their choice and
have us transport it for a fee.  A portion of transportation services
provided is at negotiated rates that are generally below the maximum approved
transportation tariff rates.  Reduced rate transportation service may
be negotiated when a competitive pipeline is in proximity or another viable
energy option is available.  Increased competition could potentially
lower these rates.  Texas Gas Service files all negotiated
transportation service contracts under a separate, confidential tariff at
the RRC.



Government Regulation- Rates
charged by our Distribution segment for natural gas services are established by
the OCC for Oklahoma Natural Gas and by the KCC for Kansas Gas
Service.  Texas Gas Service is subject to regulatory oversight by the
various municipalities that it serves, which have primary jurisdiction in their
respective areas.  Rates in unincorporated areas and all appellate
matters are subject to regulatory oversight by the RRC.  Natural gas
purchase costs are included in the Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clause rate
that is billed to customers.  Our distribution companies do not make a
profit on the cost of gas.  Other changes in costs must be recovered
through periodic rate adjustments approved by the OCC, KCC, RRC and various
municipalities in Texas.  See page 49 for a detailed description of
our various regulatory initiatives.



Oklahoma
Natural Gas has settled all known claims arising out of long-term gas supply
contracts containing “take-or-pay” provisions that require us to pay for volumes
of natural gas contracted for but not taken.  The OCC has previously
authorized recovery of the accumulated settlement costs over a 20-year period
expiring in 2014 of approximately $7.0 million annually, through a combination
of a surcharge from customers, revenue from transportation under Section 311(a)
of the Natural Gas Policy Act and other intrastate transportation
revenues.



See
further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters”
section.



Energy
Services



Business Strategy- Our Energy
Services segment utilizes our network of contracted gas supply and contracted
transportation and storage assets to provide premium services to our
customers.  The asset positions afford us the flexibility to develop
innovative, customer-specific demand delivery services for those we serve, at a
competitive cost.  With these services and a focus on customer
relationships, we expect to attract new customers and retain existing customers
that generate recurring margins.



We follow
a strategy of optimizing our storage and cross-regional transportation capacity
through the application of market knowledge and effective risk
management.  We maximize value by actively hedging the risks
associated with seasonal and locational price differentials that are inherent to
storage and transportation contracts.  At the same time, we capitalize
on opportunities created by market volatility, weather-related events,
supply-demand imbalances and market inefficiencies, which allow us to capture
additional margin.  Using market information, we manage these
asset-based positions and seek to provide incremental margin in our trading
portfolio.



Through
our wholesale marketing and risk management capabilities, we are a full-service
provider in our retail operations.  We offer a broad range of products
and are expanding our markets.  We manage the commodity price and
volumetric risk in these operations through a variety of risk management and
hedging activities.



It is our
intention to minimize the mark-to-market earnings impact that our forward hedges
have on current period earnings. When possible, we implement effective hedging
strategies using derivative instruments that qualify as hedges for accounting
purposes.



-13
- -


Our
Energy Services segment requires working capital to purchase natural gas
inventory, to reserve transportation and storage capacity and to meet cash
collateral requirements associated with our risk management
activities.  Our inventory purchases and hedging strategies are
implemented with consideration given to ONEOK’s overall working capital
requirements and liquidity.  Restrictions on our access to working
capital may impact our inventory purchases and risk management activities, which
could impact our results.



Description of Business- Our
Energy Services segment’s primary focus is to create value for our customers by
delivering physical natural gas products and risk management services through
our network of contracted transportation and storage capacity and natural gas
supply.  This contracted storage and transportation capacity connects
the major supply and demand centers throughout the United States and into
Canada.  Our customers are primarily LDCs, electric utilities and
industrial end users.  Our customers’ natural gas needs vary with
seasonal changes in weather and are therefore somewhat
unpredictable.



To ensure
natural gas is available when our customers need it, we offer premium services
and products that satisfy our customers’ swing and peaking natural gas commodity
requirements on a year-round basis.  We also provide no-notice
service, weather-related protection and other custom solutions based on our
customers’ specific needs.  Our storage and transportation capacity
not only enables us to provide these services, but also during periods when
customers do need these services, it also provides us opportunities to optimize
our contracted assets through the application of market knowledge and risk
management skills.



We
actively manage the commodity price and volatility risks associated with
providing energy risk management services to our customers by executing
derivative instruments in accordance with the parameters established in our
commodity risk management policy.  The derivative instruments consist
of over-the-counter transactions such as forward, swap and option contracts, and
NYMEX futures and option contracts.



We
utilize our experience to optimize the value of our contracted assets, and we
use our risk management and marketing capabilities to both manage risk and
generate additional margins.  We apply a combination of cash flow and
fair value hedge accounting when implementing hedging strategies that take
advantage of favorable market conditions.  See NoteDofthe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report
for additional information.  Additionally, certain non-trading
transactions, which are economic hedges of our accrual transactions, such as our
storage and transportation contracts, will not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment.  These economic hedges receive mark-to-market accounting
treatment, as they are derivative contracts and are not designated as part of a
hedge relationship.  As a result, the underlying risk being hedged
receives accrual accounting treatment, while we use mark-to-market accounting
treatment for the economic hedges.  We cannot predict the earnings
fluctuations from mark-to-market accounting, and the impact on earnings could be
material.



Our
working capital requirements related to our inventory in storage were as high as
$684.8 million during 2009 but had decreased to $264.0 million by December 31,
2009.  In addition, our use of financial derivatives can result in the
need for increased working capital due to margin requirements.  During
2009, our margin requirements with counterparties ranged from zero to $107.7
million.



Our
Energy Services segment conducts business with our ONEOK Partners and our
Distribution segments.  These services are provided under agreements
with market-based terms.  Additionally, business with our Distribution
segment is awarded through a competitive bidding process.



Market Conditions and
Seasonality-Supply- Our Energy
Services segment maintains a gas supply portfolio consisting of various
term-length contracted supply in all of the major producing regions, including
the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast.  During periods of
high natural gas demand, we utilize storage capacity to supplement natural gas
supply volumes to meet our peak day demand obligations or market
needs.



Demand- Demand under
our swing and peaking natural gas requirements contracts in our wholesale
operation is usually driven by the extent to which temperatures vary from normal
levels.  A significant portion of this business is contracted during
the winter period of November through March.  Our retail business’
demand for natural gas is primarily driven by industrial process requirements
and the use of residential heating and is significantly impacted by temperature
variations.



Seasonality-Due to the seasonality of
natural gas consumption, storage withdrawals and demand for our products and
services, earnings are normally higher during the winter months than the summer
months.  Natural gas sales volumes are typically higher in the winter
heating months than in the summer months, reflecting increased demand due to
greater heating requirements and, typically, higher natural gas
prices.  During periods of high natural gas demand, we utilize storage
capacity to supplement natural gas supply volumes to meet our premium product
and service obligations or market needs.



-14
- -


Competition-Market conditions continue
to affect credit and liquidity, as there are fewer counterparties with which we
conduct business, compared with last year, when several counterparties exited
this business or scaled back their operations.  In response to a
competitive marketing environment, our strategy is to concentrate our efforts on
providing reliable service during peak demand periods and capturing
opportunities created by short-term pricing volatility.  We can
effectively compete in the market by utilizing our contracted storage and
transportation assets.  We continue to focus on building and
strengthening supplier and customer relationships to execute our strategy and
increase our market presence.



Government Regulation- Our
Energy Services segment purchases natural gas for resale at negotiated rates in
interstate commerce.  As such, it has automatically been granted by
FERC a blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing such
sales.  This is a limited certificate that does not subject Energy
Services to any other regulation of FERC under its Natural Gas Act
jurisdiction.  Holders of blanket marketing certificates are subject
to certain reporting and document retention requirements, and Energy Services is
in compliance with such requirements.



It is
unclear how Congress and the current Administration’s efforts to improve market
transparency and stabilize the over-the-counter (OTC) derivative markets will
impact our ability to access OTC energy derivatives products and markets, which
are critical to our business.  We currently use the OTC markets to
manage business risks including fluctuating currency rates, and commodity prices
and for the hedging of inventory and capacity contracts.  Most of the
current proposals before Congress contain exemptions for these activities that
would limit the impact on our operations.  Additional matters
associated with this action that are not yet defined include the potential for
increased capital requirements and a reduction in the overall liquidity of the
markets.  We anticipate that there will also be an administrative
burden of new reporting and record keeping that will be required by one or more
of the federal agencies providing market oversight.



Other



Through
ONEOK Leasing Company and ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C., we own a parking garage
and an office building (ONEOK Plaza) in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our
headquarters are located.  ONEOK Leasing Company leases excess office
space to others and operates our headquarters office building.  ONEOK
Parking Company, L.L.C. owns and operates a parking garage adjacent to our
headquarters.



ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SAFETY MATTERS



Additional
information about our environmental matters is included in Note L of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.



Pipeline Safety- We are
subject to United States Department of Transportation regulations, including
integrity management regulations.  The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act
of 2002 requires pipeline companies to perform integrity assessments on pipeline
segments that pass through densely populated areas or near specifically
designated high consequence areas.  We are in compliance with all
material requirements associated with the various pipeline safety
regulations.  We cannot provide assurance that existing pipeline
safety regulations will not be revised or interpreted in a different manner or
that new regulations will not be adopted that could result in increased
compliance costs or additional operating restrictions.



Air and Water Emissions- The
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws impose restrictions
and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into the air and water in the
United States.  Under the Clean Air Act, a federally enforceable
operating permit is required for sources of significant air
emissions.  We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures
for air pollution-control equipment in connection with obtaining or maintaining
permits and approvals for sources of air emissions.  The Clean Water
Act imposes substantial potential liability for the removal of pollutants
discharged to waters of the United States and remediation of waters affected by
such discharge.  We are in compliance with all material requirements
associated with the various air and water quality regulations.



The
United States Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane.  In addition,
other federal, state and regional initiatives to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions are under way.  We are monitoring federal and state
legislation to assess the potential impact on our operations.  We
estimate our direct greenhouse gas emissions annually as we collect all
applicable greenhouse gas emission data for the previous year.  Our
most recent estimate for ONEOK and ONEOK Partners indicates that our emissions
are less than 5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents on an annual
basis.  We expect to complete our annual estimate for 2009 during the
second quarter of 2010 and will post the information on our Web site when
available.  We will continue efforts to improve our ability to
quantify our direct greenhouse gas emissions and will report such emissions as
required by the EPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting rule released in
September 2009.  The rule requires greenhouse gas emissions reporting
for affected facilities on an annual basis, beginning with our 2010 emissions
report that will be due in March 2011 and will require us to track the emission
equivalents for the gas delivered by us to our distribution customers and
emission equivalents for all NGLs



-15
- -


delivered
to customers of ONEOK Partners.  At this time, no legislation or other
rules have been enacted as to what costs, fees or expenses will be associated
with any of these emissions.  In addition, the EPA has issued a
proposed rule on air-quality standards, “National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines,” also
known as RICE NESHAP, scheduled to be adopted in early 2013.  The
proposed rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for
the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment.  We do
not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.



Superfund- The Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or
Superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the
original act, on certain classes of persons who contributed to the release of a
hazardous substance into the environment.  These persons include the
owner or operator of a facility where the release occurred and companies that
disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the
facility.  Under CERCLA, these persons may be liable for the costs of
cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, damages to
natural resources and the costs of certain health studies.



Chemical Site Security- The
United States Department of Homeland Security (Homeland Security) released an
interim rule in April 2007 that requires companies to provide reports on sites
where certain chemicals, including many hydrocarbon products, are
stored.  We completed the Homeland Security assessments, and our
facilities were subsequently assigned, on a preliminary basis, one of four
risk-based tiers ranging from high (Tier 1) to low (Tier 4) risk, or not tiered
at all due to low risk.  One of our facilities has been given a Tier 4
rating, and four of our facilities have been given a preliminary Tier 4
rating.  We are currently waiting for Homeland Security’s analysis to
determine if any of our other facilities will be tiered and require Site
Security Plans and possible physical security enhancements.



Pipeline Security- Homeland
Security’s Transportation Security Administration, along with the United States
Department of Transportation have completed a review and inspection of our
“critical facilities” and identified no material security issues.



Environmental Footprint- Our
environmental and climate change strategy focuses on taking steps to minimize
the impact of our operations on the environment.  These strategies
include: (i) developing and maintaining an accurate greenhouse gas emissions
inventory, according to new rules issued by the EPA; (ii) improving the
efficiency of our various pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and
natural gas liquids fractionation facilities; (iii) following developing
technologies for emission control; (iv) following developing technologies to
capture carbon dioxide to keep it from reaching the atmosphere; and (v)
analyzing options for future energy investment.



Currently,
certain subsidiaries of ONEOK Partners participate in the Processing and
Transmission sectors, and LDCs in our Distribution segment participate in the
Distribution sector of the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program to voluntarily reduce
methane emissions.  A subsidiary in our ONEOK Partners’ segment was
honored in 2008 as the “Natural Gas STAR Gathering and Processing Partner of the
Year” for its efforts to positively address environmental issues through
voluntary implementation of emission-reduction opportunities.  In
addition, we continue to focus on maintaining low rates of
lost-and-unaccounted-for methane gas through expanded implementation of best
practices to limit the release of methane during pipeline and facility
maintenance and operations.  Our most recent calculation of our annual
lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas, for all of our business operations, is
less than 1 percent of total throughput.  We expect to complete our
annual estimate for 2009 during the second quarter of 2010 and will post the
information on our Web site when available.



EMPLOYEES



We
employed 4,758 people at January 31, 2010, including 681 people employed by
Kansas Gas Service, who are subject to collective bargaining
contracts.  The following table sets forth our contracts with
collective bargaining units at January 31, 2010:



UnionEmployeesContract
      ExpiresThe
      United Steelworkers369October
      27, 2011International
      Union of Operating Engineers11October
      27, 2011International
      Brotherhood of Electrical Workers301June
      30, 2010



-16
- -


EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS



All
executive officers are typically elected at the annual meeting of our Board of
Directors, and each serves until such person resigns, is removed or is otherwise
disqualified to serve, or until such officer’s successor is duly
elected.  Our executive officers listed below include the officers who
have been designated by our Board of Directors as our Section 16 executive
officers.



Name
      and PositionAgeBusiness
      Experience in Past Five Years

John
      W. Gibson572010President
      and Chief Executive Officer

President,
      Chief Executive Officer2007
      to 2009Chief
      Executive Officer

and
      Member of Board of Directors2006
      to presentMember
      of the Board of Directors

2010Chairman,
      President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners,
  L.P.

      to 2009Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

2006President
      and Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

      to 2006President,
      ONEOK Energy Companies

      to 2005President,
      Energy



John
      R. Barker622004
      to presentSenior
      Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary

Senior
      Vice President,

General
      Counsel and

Assistant
      Secretary



Curtis
      L. Dinan422007
      to presentSenior
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Senior
      Vice President,2004
      to 2006Senior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Chief
      Financial Officer and Treasurer



Caron
      A. Lawhorn482009
      to presentSenior
      Vice President - Corporate Planning and Development

Senior
      Vice President,2007
      to 2009Senior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Corporate
      Planning and Development2005
      to 2006Senior
      Vice President, Financial Services and Treasurer

      to 2005Vice
      President and Controller



Terry
      K. Spencer502009
      to presentChief
      Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

Chief
      Operating Officer,2007
      to 2009Executive
      Vice President - Natural Gas Liquids

ONEOK
      Partners, L.P.2006President
      - Natural Gas Liquids

2005Senior
      Vice President - Natural Gas Liquids



Robert
      F. Martinovich522009
      to presentChief
      Operating Officer

Chief
      Operating Officer2007
      to 2009President
      - Gathering and Processing

      to 2007Group
      Vice President, EHS, Operations & Technical Services, DCP Midstream
      LLC

      to 2006Senior
      Vice President, Northern Division (Mid-Continent and Rockies),
      DCP

Midstream  LLC



Derek
      S. Reiners382009
      to presentSenior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Senior
      Vice President and2004
      to 2009Partner,
      Grant Thornton LLP

Chief
      Accounting Officer



No family
relationships exist between any of the executive officers, nor is there any
arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person
pursuant to which the officer was selected.



INFORMATION
AVAILABLE ON OUR WEB SITE



We make
available on our Web site (www.oneok.com) copies
of our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and reports of holdings of our
securities filed by our officers and directors under Section 16 of the Exchange
Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically
or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.  Copies of our Code of Business
Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Director Independence Guidelines
are also



-17
- -


available
on our Web site, and we will provide copies of these documents upon
request.  Our Web site and any contents thereof are not incorporated
by reference into this report.



We also
make available on our Web site the Interactive Data Files required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.  In
accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files shall not
be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or
otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be
incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document
filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly
set forth by specific reference in such filing.



