ITEM 1.    BUSINESS





GENERAL





EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



In 2012, producers continued to drill aggressively in a number of crude oil and NGL-rich natural gas resource areas in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions creating the need for additional natural gas gathering and processing and natural gas liquids infrastructure to bring this additional production to market.  Natural gas prices were lower in 2012 caused by increased supply from drilling activities and decreased demand driven primarily by a warmer than normal winter, less natural gas price volatility and narrower natural gas location and seasonal price differentials in the markets we serve.  NGL prices, particularly ethane and propane, also decreased in 2012 due primarily to increased NGL production from the development of NGL-rich areas.  Propane prices also were affected by a warmer than normal winter.





The price differential between the typically higher valued NGL products and the value of natural gas, particularly the price differential between ethane and natural gas, may influence the volume of ethane and propane available to be gathered from natural gas processing plants.  When economic conditions warrant, natural gas processors may elect not to recover the ethane component of the natural gas stream, also known as ethane rejection, and instead leave the ethane component in the natural gas stream sold at the tailgate of natural gas processing plants.  Price differentials between ethane and natural gas resulted in periods of ethane rejection in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions during 2012.  Ethane rejection did not have a material impact on our financial results.  We expect lower natural gas liquids volumes in ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business as a result of widespread and prolonged ethane rejection in 2013 that is expected to have a significant impact on our financial results.  We do not expect prolonged ethane rejection to continue into 2014.



Despite lower commodity prices, North American natural gas production continues to increase at a faster rate than demand, primarily as a result of increased production from nonconventional resource areas such as shale areas.  Producers receive currently higher market prices on a heating-value basis for crude oil and NGLs compared with natural gas.  As a result, many producers focused their drilling activity in shale areas that produce crude oil and NGL-rich natural gas rather than areas with










dry natural gas production.  We expect continued demand for midstream infrastructure development driven by producers who need to connect emerging production with end-use markets where current infrastructure is insufficient or nonexistent.



Additional natural gas liquids fractionation and pipeline capacity is needed to accommodate the growing NGL supply and demand, as well as new infrastructure to gather, process and transport growing natural gas production from both new and existing resource areas.  In response to this increased production and demand for NGL products, ONEOK Partners is investing approximately $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion in new capital projects to meet the needs of crude oil and natural gas producers in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin, Cana-Woodford Shale, Woodford Shale, Mississippian Lime and Granite Wash areas, and for additional natural gas liquids infrastructure in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast areas that will enhance the distribution of NGL products to meet the increasing petrochemical industry and NGL export demand.  When completed, ONEOK Partners expects these projects to provide additional earnings and cash flows.



During2012, we paid cash dividends of $1.27 per share, an increase of approximately 18 percent from the $1.08 per share paid during2011.  In January2013, we declared a dividend of $0.36 per share ($1.44 per share on an annualized basis), an increase of approximately 18 percent from the $0.305 declared in January2012.



During2012, ONEOK Partners paid cash distributions to its limited partners of $2.59 per unit, an increase of approximately 11 percent from the $2.325 per unit paid during2011.  In January2013, ONEOK Partners GP declared a cash distribution to ONEOK Partners’ limited partners of $0.71 per unit ($2.84 per unit on an annualized basis), an increase of approximately 16 percent from the $0.61 declared in January2012.



In January 2012, we completed an underwritten public offering of senior notes, generating net proceeds of approximately $694.3 million that were used to repay amounts outstanding under our $1.2 billion commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes.



During 2012, we relied primarily on operating cash flow, commercial paper and distributions from ONEOK Partners to fund our short-term liquidity and capital requirements, our purchase of 8.0 million common units from ONEOK Partners for approximately $460 million and our repurchase of approximately 3.4 million shares of our common stock for $150 million.  In 2012, ONEOK Partners issued an additional 8.0 million common units and $1.3 billion of senior notes, generating net proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion.  ONEOK Partners utilized proceeds from these equity and debt issuances, cash from operations and its commercial paper program to meet its short-term liquidity needs, repay maturing debt and to fund its capital projects.



In June 2012, we completed a two-for-one split of our common stock.  We have adjusted all share and per-share amounts contained herein to be presented on a post-split basis.



On February 1, 2012, we sold ONEOK Energy Marketing Company, our retail natural gas marketing business, to Constellation Energy Group, Inc. for $22.5 million plus working capital.  We received net proceeds of approximately $32.9 million and recognized an after-tax gain on the sale of approximately $13.5 million.  The proceeds from the sale were used to reduce short-term borrowings.  The financial information of ONEOK Energy Marketing Company is reflected as discontinued operations in this Annual Report.  All prior periods presented have been recast to reflect the discontinued operations.



We anticipate that our cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources and distributions from ONEOK Partners will enable us to maintain our current and planned levels of operations and provide us flexibility should we elect to execute on any portion of the $300 million remainder of our three-year, $750 million stock repurchase program.  ONEOK Partners anticipates that its cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources and ability to obtain financing will enable it to maintain its current and planned levels of operations.  Additionally, ONEOK Partners expects to fund its capital expenditures with proceeds from short- and long-term debt, the issuance of equity and operating cash flows.



See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, for more information on our growth projects, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources.



BUSINESS STRATEGY



Our primary business strategy is to deliver consistent growth and sustainable earnings, while focusing on safe, reliable and environmentally responsible operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the public through the following:

•Operate in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible manner- environmental, safety and health issues continue to be a primary focus for us; our emphasis on personal and process safety has produced improvements in










the key indicators we track.  We also continue to look for ways to reduce our environmental impact by conserving resources and utilizing more efficient technologies;



•

Generate consistent growth and sustainable earnings

- during


, ONEOK Partners’ cash distributions increased by 26.5 cents per unit, an increase of approximately 11 percent compared with


; ONEOK Partners is investing approximately $4.7 billion to $5.3 billion in new capital projects to meet the needs of crude oil, NGL and natural gas producers in the Williston Basin, Cana-Woodford Shale, Woodford Shale, Mississippian Lime and Granite Wash areas, and for additional natural gas liquids infrastructure in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast areas that will enhance the distribution of NGL products to meet the increasing petrochemical industry and NGL export demand.  When completed, these projects are anticipated to provide additional earnings and cash flows.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment benefits from rate strategies, including a performance-based rate mechanism in Oklahoma, capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas and cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas jurisdictions that address investments in rate base and changes in expense; our Natural Gas Distribution segment’s operating efficiencies include investments in automated meter-reading devices.  Our Energy Services segment is taking steps to realign fixed costs with its current business environment, including attempts to renegotiate various storage and transportation agreements and continuing to realign its contracted storage and transportation capacity with its customers’ premium-services requirements;

•Execute strategic acquisitions that provide long-term value- we remain disciplined in our approach and continue to evaluate assets that come to market.  We did not consummate any acquisitions in2012;

•Manage our balance sheet to maintain strong credit ratings at or above current levels- our balance sheet remains strong, and we will seek to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and

•Attract, select, develop and retain employees to support strategy execution- we continue to execute on our recruiting strategy that targets colleges, universities and vocational-technical schools in our operating areas.  We also continue development efforts with our current employees.



NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



We report operations in the following business segments:

•ONEOK Partners;

•Natural Gas Distribution; and

•Energy Services.





ONEOK Partners



Overview -ONEOK Partners is a diversified master limited partnership involved in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States.  In addition, ONEOK Partners owns one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers.



We own approximately 92.8 million common and Class B limited partner units, and the entire 2-percent general partner interest, which, together, represent a 43.4-percent ownership interest in ONEOK Partners.  We receive distributions from ONEOK Partners on our common and Class B units and our 2-percent general partner interest, which includes our incentive distribution rights.  See Note P of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for discussion of our incentive distribution rights.



We and ONEOK Partners maintain significant financial and corporate governance separations.  We seek to receive increasing cash distributions as a result of our investment in ONEOK Partners, and our investment decisions are made based on the anticipated returns from ONEOK Partners in total, not specific to any of ONEOK Partners’ businesses individually.  To aid in understanding the important business and financial characteristics of our ONEOK Partners segment, the following describes its business with reference to its underlying activities.



Natural gas gathering and processing business-ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business provides nondiscretionary services to producers that include gathering and processing of natural gas produced from crude oil and natural gas wells.  ONEOK Partners gathers and processes natural gas in the Mid-Continent region, which includes the NGL-rich Cana-Woodford Shale, Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas; the Mississippian Lime area of Oklahoma and Kansas; and the Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas.  It also gathers and/or processes natural gas in two producing basins in the Rocky Mountain region:  the Williston Basin, which spans portions of Montana and North Dakota and includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich Bakken Shale and Three Forks areas; and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming.  In the Powder River Basin, the natural gas that ONEOK Partners gathers is coal-bed methane, or dry natural gas that does not require processing or










NGL extraction in order to be marketable; dry natural gas is gathered, compressed and delivered into a downstream pipeline or marketed for a fee.



In the Mid-Continent region and the Williston Basin, unprocessed natural gas is compressed and transported through pipelines to processing facilities where volumes are aggregated, treated and processed to remove water vapor, solids and other contaminants, and to extract NGLs in order to provide marketable natural gas, commonly referred to as residue natural gas.  The residue natural gas, which consists primarily of methane, is compressed and delivered to natural gas pipelines for transportation to end users.  When the NGLs are separated from the unprocessed natural gas at the processing plants, the NGLs are in the form of a mixed, unfractionated NGL stream.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and NGLs are sold to its affiliates and a diverse customer base.



Revenue from the natural gas gathering and processing business is derived primarily from the following three types of contracts:

•POP - ONEOK Partners retains a percentage of the NGLs and/or a percentage of the residue gas as payment for gathering, treating, compressing and processing the producer’s natural gas.  This type of contract represented approximately 41 percent and 37 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2012 and 2011, respectively.

•Fee - ONEOK Partners is paid a fee for the services it provides based on Btus gathered, treated, compressed and/or processed.  This type of contract represented approximately 57 percent and 60 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2012 and 2011, respectively.

•Keep-whole - ONEOK Partners extracts NGLs from unprocessed natural gas and returns to the producer volumes of residue natural gas containing the same amount of Btus as the unprocessed natural gas that was originally delivered.  This type of contract represented approximately 2 percent and 3 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Approximately 78 percent and 75 percent of ONEOK Partners’ volume under keep-whole contracts for 2012 and 2011, respectively, contain terms that effectively convert these contracts into fee contracts when the gross processing spread is negative.



Natural gas pipelines business-ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipeline business owns and operates regulated natural gas transmission pipelines and natural gas storage facilities.  ONEOK Partners also provides interstate natural gas transportation and storage services in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.



ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated interstate assets transport natural gas through pipelines that access supply from Canada and from the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas pipeline assets are located in Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas, and have access to major natural gas producing areas in those states.  ONEOK Partners owns underground natural gas storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.



ONEOK Partners’ revenues from its natural gas pipelines are derived typically from fee-based services provided to its customers.  Its revenues are generated from the following types of fee-based contracts:

•Firm service - Customers can reserve a fixed quantity of pipeline or storage capacity for the terms of their contract.  Under this type of contract, the customer pays a fixed fee for a specified quantity regardless of their actual usage.  The customer then typically pays incremental fees, known as commodity charges, that are based upon the actual volume of natural gas they transport or store, and/or we may retain a specified volume of natural gas in-kind for fuel.  Under the firm-service contract, the customer generally is guaranteed access to the capacity they reserve; and

•Interruptible service - Customers with interruptible service transportation and storage agreements may utilize available capacity after firm-service requests are satisfied or on an as-available basis.  Interruptible service customers typically are assessed fees, such as a commodity charge, based on their actual usage, and/or we may retain a specified volume of natural gas in-kind for fuel.  Under the interruptible service contract, the customer is not guaranteed use of our pipelines and storage facilities unless excess capacity is available.



Natural gas liquids business-ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business gathers, treats, fractionates, stores and transports NGLs and distributes and stores NGL products.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering pipelines deliver unfractionated NGLs gathered from natural gas processing plants located in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas and the Rocky Mountain region to fractionators it owns in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, as well as to third-party fractionators and pipelines.  The NGLs are then separated through the fractionation process into the individual NGL products that realize the greater economic value of the NGL components.  The individual NGL products are then stored or distributed to ONEOK Partners’ customers, such as petrochemical manufacturers, heating-fuel users, refineries and propane distributors, through ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated distribution pipelines that move NGL products from Oklahoma and Kansas to the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast NGL market centers, as well as the Midwest markets near Chicago, Illinois.












Revenues from the natural gas liquids business are derived primarily from nondiscretionary fee-based services provided to ONEOK Partners’ customers and physical optimization of its natural gas liquids assets.  Its fee-based services have increased due primarily to previously completed capital projects, including the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash projects and expansion of its fractionation capacity.  The sources of revenue are categorized as follows:

•Exchange services’ activities - ONEOK Partners primarily gathers, fractionates and treats unfractionated NGLs for a fee, thereby converting them into marketable NGL products that are stored and shipped to a market center or customer-designated location.  Many of these exchange volumes are under contracts with minimum volume commitments.

•Optimization and marketing activities - ONEOK Partners utilizes its assets, contract portfolio and market knowledge to capture location and seasonal price differentials.  ONEOK Partners transports NGL products between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast in order to capture the location price differentials between the two market centers.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids storage facilities are also utilized to capture seasonal price variances.  A growing portion of its marketing activities serves truck and rail markets.

•Pipeline transportation business - ONEOK Partners transports unfractionated NGLs, NGL products and refined petroleum products primarily under our FERC-regulated tariffs.  Tariffs specify the maximum rates ONEOK Partners charges its customers and the general terms and conditions for NGL transportation service on its pipelines.

•Isomerization activities - ONEOK Partners captures the price differential when normal butane is converted into the more valuable iso-butane at its isomerization unit in Conway, Kansas.  Iso-butane is used in the refining industry to increase the octane of motor gasoline.

•Storage services - ONEOK Partners stores NGLs at its Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast facilities for a fee.



Market Conditions and Seasonality -Supply- Natural gas and NGL supply is affected by producer drilling activity, which is sensitive to commodity prices, drilling rig availability, exploration success, operating capability, the NGL content of the natural gas that is produced and processed, access to capital and regulatory control.  Crude oil prices and advances in horizontal drilling and completion technology have had a positive impact on drilling activity in the crude oil and NGL-rich shale and other nonconventional resource areas, providing an offset to the less favorable supply projections in some of the dry natural gas conventional resource areas.



In the Rocky Mountain region, Williston Basin volumes continue to grow as well connections from drilling completions increase, driven primarily by producer development of Bakken Shale and Three Forks formation crude-oil wells, which also produce associated natural gas containing significant quantities of NGLs.  However, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business has experienced declines in natural gas volumes gathered in the Powder River Basin, which produces dry natural gas.



In the Mid-Continent region, ONEOK Partners expects increased drilling activity in the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas of western Oklahoma and the Mississippian Lime area of Oklahoma and Kansas to more than offset the volumetric declines in most conventional wells that supply ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing facilities and intrastate natural gas pipelines and storage assets.



ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines access supply from major producing regions in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Gulf Coast and Canada.



ONEOK Partners expects the overall supply of NGLs to continue to increase, as well as demand for its fee-based services, as a result of the development of shale areas and other nonconventional resource areas.  Many new natural gas processing plants are being constructed in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle to process NGL-rich natural gas being produced in the Cana-Woodford Shale, Granite Wash, Woodford Shale and Mississippian Lime areas.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering and fractionation operations receive NGLs from a variety of processors and pipelines, including affiliates, located in these regions.



ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing and natural gas liquids businesses also are affected by operational or market-driven changes that impact the output of natural gas processing plants.  The price differential between the typically higher valued NGL products and the value of natural gas, particularly the price differential between ethane and natural gas, may influence the volume of NGLs available to be gathered from natural gas processing plants.  During 2012, the value of ethane was periodically below that of natural gas, which negatively impacted the economic incentive for ethane recovery and caused some natural gas processing plants that deliver NGLs to our natural gas liquids gathering pipelines to reduce ethane production.  There are a variety of factors that affect whether a processing plant will reduce or reject ethane production; however, we expect periods of low ethane prices relative to natural gas, causing periods of lower ethane production during 2013.  ONEOK Partners’










natural gas processing plant operations can be adjusted to respond to market conditions, such as demand for ethane.  By changing operating parameters at certain plants, ONEOK Partners can reduce, to some extent, the amount of ethane and propane recovered in its processing plants if prices or processing margins are unfavorable.  During 2012, ethane rejection did not have a material impact on our financial results.  We expect lower natural gas liquids volumes in ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business as a result of widespread and prolonged ethane rejection in 2013 that is expected to have a significant impact on our financial results.  We do not expect prolonged ethane rejection to continue into 2014.



Natural gas and/or natural gas liquids pipeline capacity constraints may also impact the output of natural gas processing plants in total or for specific NGL products in the future. During 2012, we experienced limited reductions of supply related to changes in plant output as a result of pipeline capacity constraints.



Demand-Demand for natural gas gathering and processing services is aligned typically with the production of natural gas from natural gas resource areas or the associated natural gas from wells drilled in crude oil resource areas.  Gathering and processing are nondiscretionary services that producers require to market their natural gas and NGL production.  As producers continue to develop shale and other resource areas, ONEOK Partners expects demand for its natural gas gathering and processing services to increase.



Demand for natural gas pipeline transportation service and natural gas storage is related directly to demand for natural gas in the markets that ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines and storage facilities serve, and is affected by weather, the economy and natural gas and NGL price volatility.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines primarily serve end-users, such as local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation companies, large industrial companies, municipalities and irrigation customers that require natural gas to operate their businesses and generally are not impacted by location price differentials.  However, narrower location price differentials may impact demand for ONEOK Partners’ services from natural gas marketers as discussed below under “Commodity Prices.”  Demand for ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines services can also be impacted as coal-fired electric generators consider natural gas as an alternative fuel.



The strength of the economy directly impacts manufacturing and industrial companies that consume natural gas.  Commodity price volatility can influence producers’ decisions related to the production of natural gas, the level of NGLs processed from natural gas, and natural gas storage injection and withdrawal activity.





Commodity Prices- Crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices can be volatile due to changes in market conditions.  Commodity prices can also be impacted by demand for products from the petrochemical industry and other consumers, storage injection and withdrawal rates and available storage capacity.  The increase in natural gas supply from shale gas development has caused natural gas prices to decline and natural gas location and seasonal price differentials to narrow across most of the regions where ONEOK Partners operates.  However, an increase in crude oil prices and the abundance of NGLs produced from the development of NGL-rich shale resource areas have made producing NGL feedstocks for the petrochemical industry more profitable.  ONEOK Partners is exposed to commodity price risk in its natural gas gathering and processing business, as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for services, primarily on POP contracts, and in its natural gas liquids business from the NGLs it purchases and sells.



ONEOK Partners is also exposed to market risk associated with the price differentials between receipt and delivery points along its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, also known as location differentials.  Fluctuations in location differentials impact the rates its natural gas pipelines’ customers with competitive alternatives are willing to pay and the optimization opportunities for its natural gas liquids business.  During the second half of 2012, due to strong production and supply growth










from the development of NGL-rich shale areas, increased demand in the Mid-Continent region and increased capacity available on pipelines that connect the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast market centers, NGL price differentials narrowed between the Mid-Continent market center at Conway, Kansas, and the Gulf Coast market center at Mont Belvieu, Texas.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and NGL storage revenues are impacted by the differential between the forward price of natural gas and NGLs and the price of natural gas and NGLs on the spot market.  Additionally, fluctuations in the relative price differential between natural gas, NGLs and individual NGL products impacts ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids exchange services and transportation revenues and, to a lesser extent, margins on its natural gas gathering and processing keep-whole contracts.



To minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, ONEOK Partners uses commodity derivative instruments such as futures, swaps and physical-forward contracts to manage commodity-price risk associated with existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas or natural gas liquids in storage and location price differentials.



Seasonality-Our ONEOK Partners segment’s products are subject to weather-related seasonal demand.  Cold temperatures typically increase demand for natural gas and propane, which are used to heat homes and businesses.  Warm temperatures typically drive demand for natural gas used for natural gas-fired electric generation needed to meet the electricity-generation demand required to cool residential and commercial properties.  Precipitation levels also can impact the demand for natural gas that is used to fuel irrigation activity in the Mid-Continent region and demand for propane used to fuel crop-drying activity.  Demand for butane and natural gasoline, which are used primarily by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denaturant for ethanol and diluents for crude oil, may also be subject to some variability as automotive travel increases and as seasonal gasoline formulation standards are implemented.  During periods of peak demand for a certain commodity, prices for that product typically increase, which may influence natural gas processing and NGL fractionation decisions.



Competition-ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids businesses compete directly with other companies for natural gas and NGL supply, markets and services.  Competition for natural gas transportation services continues to increase as new infrastructure projects are completed and the FERC and state regulatory bodies continue to encourage additional competition in the natural gas markets.  Competition is based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and forward natural gas and NGL prices and proximity to supply areas and markets.  ONEOK Partners believes that the location and integration of its assets enable it to compete effectively.



ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business competes for natural gas supplies with independent exploration and production companies that have gathering and processing assets, pipeline companies and their affiliated marketing companies, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, and marketers in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business competes with other fractionators, intrastate and interstate pipeline companies, storage providers, gatherers and transporters for NGL supplies in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.  The factors that typically affect ONEOK Partners’ ability to compete for natural gas and NGL supply are:

•quality of services provided;

•producer drilling activity;

•the petrochemical industry’s level of capacity utilization and feedstock requirements;

•fees charged under its contracts;

•current and forward NGL prices;

•location of its assets relative to those of its competitors;

•location of its assets relative to drilling activity;

•proximity to NGL supply areas and markets;

•efficiency and reliability of its operations;

•pressures maintained on its gathering systems; and

•receipt and delivery capabilities that exist for natural gas and NGLs in each pipeline system, processing plant, fractionator and storage location.



ONEOK Partners is responding to these factors by making capital investments to access new supply; increasing gathering, fractionation and distribution capacity;  increasing storage, withdrawal and injection capabilities; and improving natural gas processing efficiency and reducing operating costs.  ONEOK Partners’ competitors have also recently announced plans for, and in some cases are already constructing or have completed, new natural gas gathering and processing facilities and natural gas liquids pipelines and fractionators to address the growing natural gas and NGL supply and petrochemical demand.  ONEOK Partners is also evaluating opportunities to maximize earnings and renegotiating low-margin contracts with the principal goals of improving margins and reducing risk.  When completed, ONEOK Partners’ growth projects and those of its competitors are expected to impact NGL prices and narrow location price differentials between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast market










centers.  We believe ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing, NGL fractionation, pipelines and storage assets are located strategically, connecting diverse supply areas to market centers.



Government Regulation -The FERC traditionally has maintained that a natural gas processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act.  Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing operations or facilities, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in extracting NGLs and, therefore, ONEOK Partners believes its natural gas processing plants are exempt from FERC jurisdiction.  The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC.  ONEOK Partners believes its natural gas gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the FERC for nonjurisdictional gathering facility status.  Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction.  The FERC has distinguished historically between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis.  ONEOK Partners also transports residue gas from its natural gas processing plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.



Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, in various degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states.  In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency.



ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines are regulated under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act, which give the FERC jurisdiction to regulate virtually all aspects of the pipeline activities.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas transportation assets in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are regulated by the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively.  ONEOK Partners has flexibility in establishing natural gas transportation rates with customers.  However, there are maximum rates that ONEOK Partners can charge its customers in Oklahoma and Kansas.



The operations and revenues of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids pipelines are regulated by various state and federal government agencies.  Its interstate natural gas liquids pipelines are regulated by the FERC, which has authority over the terms and conditions of service, rates, including depreciation and amortization policies and initiation of service.  In Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas liquids pipelines that provide common carrier service are subject to the jurisdiction of the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively.



PHMSA has asserted jurisdiction over certain portions of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids fractionation facilities in Bushton, Kansas, that ONEOK Partners believes are not subject to its jurisdiction.  ONEOK Partners has objected to the scope of PHMSA’s jurisdiction and is seeking resolution of this matter.  We do not anticipate that the cost of compliance will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.



Unconsolidated Affiliates- Our ONEOK Partners segment has investments in unconsolidated affiliates that include Northern Border Pipeline, Overland Pass Pipeline Company, three partnerships that operate natural gas gathering systems located primarily in the Powder River of Wyoming and other investments.  Northern Border Pipeline is a leading transporter of natural gas imported from Canada into the United States.  Overland Pass Pipeline Company operates an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline system that transports natural gas liquids from the Rocky Mountain region to the Mid-Continent NGL market center.



See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of ONEOK Partners’ unconsolidated affiliates.





Natural Gas Distribution



Overview -Our Natural Gas Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas through Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service.  We serve residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers in all three states.  In addition, our LDCs serve wholesale and public authority customers.  We operate subject to regulations and oversight of the state regulatory agencies.  Our regulatory strategy incorporates features that reduce earnings lag, protect margin and mitigate risks.



Our strategies to reduce earnings lag include a performance-based rate mechanism in Oklahoma and capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas.  In addition, we also have cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas markets that address investments in rate base and changes in operating expenses.












Margin protection strategies include increasing the portion of our service fees that is fixed rather than volumetrically based.  Customer consumption is affected by end-use equipment efficiency, natural gas prices and weather conditions.  Weather normalization mechanisms in place in Oklahoma, Kansas and portions of Texas are designed to limit our sensitivity to weather.



Risk mitigation strategies include mechanisms to recover the fuel-related component of bad debts in all three states, pension and other postretirement benefits in Kansas and portions of Texas, and ad valorem taxes in Kansas.



Our operating results are affected primarily by the number of customers, usage and the ability to collect service fees that provide a reasonable rate of return on our investment and recovery of our cost of service.  Natural gas costs are passed through to our customers based on the actual cost of natural gas purchased by the respective natural gas distribution company and related expenses, including transportation and storage costs.  Substantial fluctuations in natural gas sales can occur from year to year without materially or adversely impacting our net margin, since the fluctuations in natural gas costs affect natural gas sales and cost of gas by an equivalent amount.  Higher natural gas costs may cause customers to conserve or use alternative energy sources.  Higher natural gas costs may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense.



Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service distribute natural gas as public utilities to approximately 87 percent, 70 percent and 14 percent of the natural gas distribution customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, respectively.  Natural gas sold to residential and commercial customers as a percentage of our LDC’s total natural gas sales by state is presented in the table below:

OklahomaKansasTexasResidential83%79%70%Commercial17%19%22%



Market Conditions and Seasonality -Supply- Our LDCs purchased 140 Bcf and 163 Bcf of natural gas supply in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Our natural gas supply portfolio consists of long-term, seasonal and short-term contracts from a diverse group of suppliers.  These contracts are awarded through competitive-bidding processes to ensure reliable and competitively priced natural gas supply.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment’s natural gas supply is acquired from natural gas processing plants, natural gas marketers and natural gas producers.



An objective of our supply-sourcing strategy is to provide value to customers through reliable, competitively priced and flexible natural gas supply and transportation purchases from multiple production areas and suppliers.  This strategy is designed to prevent supply from being curtailed by physical interruption, possible financial difficulties of a single supplier, natural disasters and other unforeseen force majeure events, as well as ensuring these resources are reliable and flexible to meet the variations of customer demands.



We do not anticipate problems with securing natural gas supply to satisfy customer demand; however, if supply shortages were to occur, each of our LDCs has curtailment tariff provisions in place that provide for:  reducing or discontinuing natural gas service to large industrial users; and requesting that residential and commercial customers reduce their natural gas requirements to an amount essential for public health and safety.  In addition, during times of critical supply disruptions, curtailments of deliveries to customers with firm contracts may be made in accordance with guidelines established by appropriate federal, state and local regulatory agencies.



Natural gas supply requirements are affected by weather conditions.  In addition, economic conditions impact the requirements of our commercial and industrial customers.  Natural gas usage per residential customer may decline as customers change their consumption patterns in response to:  (i) more volatile and higher natural gas prices, as discussed above; (ii)customers’ improving the energy efficiency of existing homes by replacing doors and windows and adding insulation, and replacing appliances with more efficient appliances; (iii) more energy-efficient construction; and (iv) fuel switching.  In each jurisdiction in which we operate, changes in customer-usage profiles are considered in the periodic redesign of our rates.



In managing our natural gas supply portfolios, we partially mitigate price volatility using a combination of physical and financial derivatives and natural gas in storage.  We have natural gas hedging programs that have been authorized by the regulatory authorities in each state in which our LDCs do business.  We do not utilize financial derivatives for speculative purposes nor do we have trading operations associated with our Natural Gas Distribution segment.  We utilized 39.3 Bcf of contracted storage capacity in2012, which allows natural gas to be purchased during the off-peak season and stored for use in the winter periods.












Demand- See discussion below under “Seasonality” and “Competition” for factors affecting demand for our services.



Seasonality- Natural gas sales to residential and commercial customers are seasonal, as a substantial portion of their natural gas requirements are for heating.  Accordingly, the volume of natural gas sales is higher normally during the months of November through March than in other months of the year.  The impact on margins for our LDCs resulting from weather that is above or below normal is offset in part through weather-normalization adjustments (WNA).  These adjustments have been approved by the regulatory authorities for our Oklahoma, Kansas and certain Texas service territories.  WNA allow us to increase customer billing to offset lower gas usage when weather is warmer than normal and decrease customer billing to offset higher gas usage when weather is colder than normal.



Competition- We encounter competition based on customers’ preference for natural gas, compared with other energy products and their comparative prices.  The most significant product competition occurs between natural gas and electricity in the residential and small commercial markets.  We compete for space and water heating, cooking, clothes drying and other general energy needs.  Customers and builders typically make the decision on the type of equipment at initial installation and use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment.  The markets in our service territories have become increasingly competitive.  Changes in the competitive position of natural gas relative to electricity and other energy products have the potential to cause a decline in consumption or in the number of natural gas customers.



However, industry studies have demonstrated that assessing energy efficiency in terms of full fuel-cycle analysis highlights the high overall efficiency of natural gas in residential and commercial uses, compared with electricity.  The Department of Energy issued a statement of policy that it will use full fuel-cycle measures of energy use and emissions when evaluating energy-conservation standards for appliances.  Further, independent studies show that natural gas provides a cost advantage over electricity for typical home and business applications.



We believe that we must maintain a competitive advantage in order to retain our customers, and, accordingly, we focus on providing safe, reliable and efficient service and controlling costs.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment is subject to competition from other pipelines for our existing industrial load.  Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service compete for service to large industrial and commercial customers, and competition has and may continue to impact margins.



Under our transportation tariffs, qualifying industrial and commercial customers are able to purchase their natural gas commodity from the supplier of their choice and have us transport it for a fee.  A portion of transportation services provided is at negotiated rates that are generally below the maximum approved transportation tariff rates.  Reduced rate transportation service may be negotiated when a competitive pipeline is in proximity or another viable energy option is available.  Increased competition could potentially lower these rates.



Government Regulation- Rates charged for natural gas transportation services by the LDCs in our Natural Gas Distribution segment are established by the OCC for Oklahoma Natural Gas and by the KCC for Kansas Gas Service.  Texas Gas Service is subject to regulatory oversight by the various municipalities that it serves, which have primary jurisdiction in their respective areas.  Rates in unincorporated areas of Texas and all appellate matters are subject to regulatory oversight by the RRC.  Natural gas supply costs for our LDCs are passed on to our customers through a purchased-gas cost-adjustment mechanism.  We do not make a profit on the cost of natural gas.  Other changes in costs must be recovered through periodic rate adjustments approved by the OCC, KCC, RRC and various municipalities in Texas.  See page56for a detailed description of our various regulatory initiatives.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.





Energy Services



Overview -Our Energy Services segment is a provider of natural gas supply and risk-management services for natural gas and electric utilities and commercial and industrial customers.  We use a network of leased storage and transportation capacity to supply natural gas to our customers.  This network connects the major supply and demand centers throughout the United States and into Canada and, coupled with our industry knowledge and market intelligence, allows us to provide our customers with customized services in a more efficient and reliable manner than they can achieve independently.



Strategy- We follow a strategy of optimizing our storage and cross-regional transportation capacity through the application of market knowledge and effective risk management.  We seek to maximize value by actively hedging the risks associated with seasonal and location price differentials that are inherent to storage and transportation contracts.  At the same time, we attempt to capitalize on opportunities created by market volatility, weather-related events, supply-demand imbalances and market










inefficiencies, which allow us to capture additional margin.  Using market information, we manage these asset-based positions and seek to provide incremental margin in our trading portfolio.



To ensure natural gas is available when our customers need it, we offer premium services and products that satisfy our customers’ nonuniform supply needs such as swing and peaking natural gas load requirements on a year-round basis.  Types of premium services include next-day and no-notice services.  Next-day services allow our customers to call on additional gas supply up to an amount agreed upon in a service contract and expect delivery the following day.  No-notice services allow customers to call on additional gas supply and expect immediate delivery.  We also provide weather-related protection and other custom solutions based on our customers’ specific needs.  Our storage and transportation assets enable us to provide these services and provide us with opportunities to capture daily, monthly and seasonal value due to market inefficiencies.





Approximately 311.1 MMcf/d, or 32 percent, of our transportation capacity expires by the end of 2013, and an additional 390.4 MMcf/d, or 41 percent, of our transportation capacity expires by the end of 2015.  Approximately 22.3 Bcf, or 31 percent, of our storage capacity expires by the end of 2013, and an additional 40.5 Bcf, or 57 percent, of our storage capacity expires by the end of 2015.  Our strategy is to either release this capacity or recontract at market rates.



Derivatives- We intend to minimize the mark-to-market earnings impact that our forward hedges have on current period earnings. When possible, we implement hedging strategies using derivative instruments that qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.  We actively manage the commodity price and volatility risks associated with providing energy risk-management services to our customers by executing derivative instruments in accordance with the parameters established in our risk-management and compliance policy.  The derivative instruments consist of over-the-counter transactions such as forward, swap and option contracts, and NYMEX futures and option contracts.



We utilize our experience to optimize the value of our contracted assets and use our risk management and marketing capabilities to manage risk and generate additional margins.  We apply a combination of cash flow and fair value hedge accounting when implementing hedging strategies that take advantage of favorable market conditions.  See Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information.  Additionally, certain non-trading transactions, which are economic hedges of our accrual transactions such as certain of our storage and transportation contracts, will not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  These economic hedges receive mark-to-market accounting treatment, as they are derivative contracts and are not designated as part of a hedge relationship.  As a result, the underlying risk being hedged receives accrual accounting treatment, while we use mark-to-market accounting treatment for the economic hedges.  We cannot predict the earnings fluctuations from mark-to-market accounting, and the impact on earnings could be material.



In prior years, we were able to hedge location price differentials and seasonal storage price differentials at more favorable levels compared with opportunities currently available to us.  These factors have impacted negatively our Energy Services segment’s results of operations in 2011 and 2012, and we anticipate these factors will persist throughout 2013.  A significant amount of our storage and transportation hedges that were entered into at favorable levels were realized by the end of 2011.



Working Capital- Our Energy Services segment requires working capital to purchase natural gas inventory, to reserve transportation and storage capacity and to meet cash collateral requirements associated with our risk-management activities.  Our inventory purchases and hedging strategies are implemented with consideration given to ONEOK’s overall working capital requirements and liquidity.  Restrictions on our access to working capital may impact our inventory purchases and risk-management activities, which could impact our results.  Our working capital costs would be impacted by a change in ONEOK’s current investment-grade credit ratings or a significant increase in commodity prices.  See discussion under “Credit Risk” of










Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information about the impact of a change in ONEOK’s credit rating.



Our working capital requirements related to our inventory in storage were as high as $202.3 million during 2012 and had decreased to $169.1 million by December 31, 2012.  In addition, margin requirements can result in increased working capital requirements.  During 2012, the amount we were required to post with counterparties to meet our margin requirements ranged from zero to $31.4 million, and the amount posted for our benefit by our counterparties ranged from zero to $69.7 million.



Sales with Affiliates- Our Energy Services segment conducts business with our ONEOK Partners and Natural Gas Distribution segments.  These services are provided under agreements with market-based terms.  Additionally, business with our LDCs is awarded through a competitive-bidding process.



Market Conditions and Seasonality -Supply- Our Energy Services segment maintains a natural gas supply portfolio consisting of various term-length contracted supply in all of the major producing regions, including the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast.  During periods of high natural gas demand, we utilize storage capacity that allows us to supplement natural gas supply volumes to meet our peak-day demand obligations or market needs.



An increase in shale natural gas production and related pipeline construction across North America has resulted in greater natural gas supply, putting downward pressure on natural gas prices and narrowing the price differentials between regions.  The impact of lower natural gas prices and price volatility and narrower location and seasonal price differentials has resulted in reduced opportunities to capture incremental margin through optimization efforts.



Demand- Demand under our swing and peaking natural gas requirements contracts in our wholesale operation usually is driven by the extent to which temperatures vary from normal levels.  A significant portion of this business is contracted during the winter period of November through March.



The displacement of electric power-generation plants from coal to natural gas is resulting in a moderate increase in demand for natural gas.  These displacements are being driven by the lower cost of natural gas relative to coal and to a lesser extent due to potential government regulations.



Customers continue to contract for storage, transportation and premium services but at lower prices due to lower natural gas prices resulting from the increased supply and lower natural gas price volatility.  Although future improvements in the U.S. economy, coupled with the depressed natural gas price environment, could increase modestly customer demand, we do not anticipate a significant change in customer demand in 2013.



Seasonality- Due to the seasonality of natural gas consumption, storage withdrawals and demand for our products and services, earnings are higher normally during the winter months than the summer months.  Natural gas sales volumes are higher typically in the winter heating months than in the summer months, reflecting increased demand due to greater heating requirements and, typically, higher natural gas prices.



Increased natural gas supply is also impacting negatively the seasonal price differentials.  There could be situations where winter prices are lower, due to mild weather and abundant supply, than the prices in the upcoming summer.  These changes could result in unfavorable pricing between periods that could result in losses on the withdrawal of natural gas from inventory.



Competition- In response to a challenging marketing environment, our strategy is to concentrate our efforts on providing reliable service during peak-demand periods.  We can compete effectively in the market by utilizing our contracted storage and transportation assets.  We continue to focus on building and strengthening supplier and customer relationships to execute our strategy and increase our market presence.



Government Regulation -Our Energy Services segment purchases natural gas for resale at negotiated rates in interstate commerce.  As such, it has been granted by FERC an automatic blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing such sales.  This is a limited certificate that does not subject our Energy Services segment to any other regulation of FERC under its Natural Gas Act jurisdiction.  Holders of blanket marketing certificates are subject to certain reporting and document retention requirements.



Market conditions and uncertainties associated with the implementation of financial reform through the Dodd-Frank Act have reduced liquidity in the financial derivatives markets, particularly for basis swaps, which make it difficult to implement forward hedges around our transportation and storage positions.  See “Financial Markets Legislation” for discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act.














SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Operating Income, Customers and Total Assets -See Note R of theNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for disclosure by segment of our operating income and total assets and for a discussion of revenues from external customers.





Other



Through ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., and ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C., we own a parking garage and an office building (ONEOK Plaza) in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our headquarters are located.  ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., leases excess office space to others and operates our headquarters office building.  ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C. owns and operates a parking garage adjacent to our headquarters.





FINANCIAL MARKETS LEGISLATION



The Dodd-Frank Act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for regulation of United States financial markets.  Various regulatory agencies, including the SEC and the CFTC, have proposed regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC has issued final regulations for many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have varying effective dates for compliance, but others remain outstanding.  Based on our assessment of the regulations issued to date and those proposed, we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our business, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the capital requirements and costs of hedging may increase as a result of the regulations.  We also may incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations; however, we do not believe the costs will be material.  These requirements could affect adversely market liquidity and pricing of derivative contracts, making it more difficult to execute our risk-management strategies in the future.  Also, the anticipated increased costs of compliance by dealers and counterparties likely will be passed on to customers, which could decrease the benefits of hedging to us and could reduce our profitability and liquidity.





ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY MATTERS



Additional information about our environmental matters is included in Note Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.



Environmental Matters -



Pipeline Safety -We are subject to PHMSA regulations, including integrity-management regulations.  The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 requires pipeline companies operating high-pressure pipelines to perform integrity assessments on pipeline segments that pass through densely populated areas or near specifically designated high-consequence areas.  In January 2012, The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 was signed into law.  The new law increased maximum penalties for violating federal pipeline safety regulations and directs the DOT and Secretary of Transportation to conduct further review or studies on issues that may or may not be material to us.  These issues include but are not limited to the following:










•an evaluation on whether hazardous natural gas liquids and natural gas pipeline integrity-management requirements should be expanded beyond current high-consequence areas;

•a review of all natural gas and hazardous natural gas liquids gathering pipeline exemptions;

•a verification of records for pipelines in class 3 and 4 locations and high-consequence areas to confirm maximum allowable operating pressures; and

•a requirement to test previously untested pipelines operating above 30-percent yield strength in high-consequence areas.



The potential capital and operating expenditures related to this legislation, the associated regulations or other new pipeline safety regulations are unknown.



Air and Water Emissions -The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, analogous state laws and/or regulations promulgated thereunder, impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into the air and water in the United States.  Under the Clean Air Act, a federally enforceable operating permit is required for sources of significant air emissions.  We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures for air-pollution-control equipment in connection with obtaining or maintaining permits and approvals for sources of air emissions.  The Clean Water Act imposes substantial potential liability for the removal of pollutants discharged to waters of the United States and remediation of waters affected by such discharge.





In May 2010, the EPA finalized the “Tailoring Rule” that regulates greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified facilities that meet certain criteria.  Affected facilities are required to review best available control technology, conduct air-quality analysis, impact analysis and public reviews with respect to such emissions.  The rule was phased in beginning January 2011 and at current emission threshold levels has not had a material impact on our existing facilities.  The EPA has stated it will consider lowering the threshold levels over the next five years, which could increase the impact on our existing facilities; however, potential costs, fees or expenses associated with the potential adjustments are unknown.



In 2010, the EPA issued a rule on air-quality standards titled, “National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines,” also known as RICE NESHAP, which initially included a compliance date in 2013.  Subsequent industry appeals and settlements with the EPA have extended timelines associated with the final RICE NESHAP rule.  While the rule could require capital expenditures for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment, we do not expect these expenditures will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



In July 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would change the air emission New Source Performance Standards, also known as NSPS, and Maximum Achievable Control Technology requirements applicable to the oil and natural gas industry, including natural gas production, processing, transmission and underground storage sectors.  In April 2012, the EPA released the final rule, which includes new NSPS and air toxic standards for a variety of sources within natural gas processing plants, oil and natural gas production facilities and natural gas transmission stations.  The rule also regulates emissions from the hydraulic fracturing of wells for the first time.  The EPA’s final rule reflects significant changes from the proposal issued in 2011 and allows for more manageable compliance options.  The NSPS final rule became effective in October 2012, but the dates for compliance vary and depend in part upon the type of affected facility and the date of construction, reconstruction or modification.  Further, pursuant to various industry comments, administrative petitions for reconsideration and/or judicial appeals of portions of the NSPS final rule, the EPA has indicated it may provide certain responses, amendments and/or policy










guidance to amend or clarify portions of the final rule in 2013.  We anticipate that if the EPA issues additional responses, amendments and/or policy guidance on the final rule, it will reduce the anticipated capital, operations and maintenance costs resulting from the regulation.  Generally, the NSPS final rule will require expenditures for updated emissions controls, monitoring and record-keeping requirements at affected facilities in the crude-oil and natural gas industry.  We do not expect these expenditures will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



CERCLA- The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also commonly known as Superfund (CERCLA), imposes strict, joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on certain classes of “persons” (defined under CERCLA) that caused and/or contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment.  These persons include but are not limited to the owner or operator of a facility where the release occurred and/or companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the facility.  Under CERCLA, these persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies.  Neither we nor ONEOK Partners expect our respective responsibilities under CERCLA, for this facility and any other, will have a material impact on our respective results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Chemical Site Security -The United States Department of Homeland Security released an interim rule in April 2007 that requires companies to provide reports on sites where certain chemicals, including many hydrocarbon products, are stored.  We completed the Homeland Security assessments, and our facilities subsequently were assigned one of four risk-based tiers ranging from high (Tier 1) to low (Tier 4) risk, or not tiered at all due to low risk.  To date, four of our facilities have been given a Tier 4 rating.  Facilities receiving a Tier 4 rating are required to complete Site Security Plans and possible physical security enhancements.  We do not expect the Site Security Plans and possible security enhancements cost will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Pipeline Security -The United States Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration and the DOT have completed a review and inspection of our “critical facilities” and identified no material security issues.  Also, the Transportation Security Administration has released new pipeline security guidelines that include broader definitions for the determination of pipeline “critical facilities.”  We have reviewed our pipeline facilities according to the new guideline requirements, and there have been no material changes required to date.



Environmental Footprint -Our environmental and climate change strategy focuses on taking steps to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment.  These strategies include:  (i) developing and maintaining an accurate greenhouse gas emissions inventory according to current rules issued by the EPA; (ii) improving the efficiency of our various pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and natural gas liquids fractionation facilities; (iii) following developing technologies for emission control and the capture of carbon dioxide to keep it from reaching the atmosphere; and (iv) utilizing practices to reduce the loss of methane from our facilities.



We participate in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program to voluntarily reduce methane emissions.  We continue to focus on maintaining low rates of lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas through expanded implementation of best practices to limit the release of natural gas during pipeline and facility maintenance and operations.





EMPLOYEES



We employed4,859people at January 31,2013, including705people at Kansas Gas Service who are subject to collective bargaining agreements.  The following table sets forth our contracts with collective bargaining units at January 31,2013:

UnionEmployeesContract ExpiresThe United Steelworkers406October 28, 2016International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)299June 30, 2014














EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



All executive officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors and each serves until such person resigns, is removed or is otherwise disqualified to serve or until such officer’s successor is duly elected.  Our executive officers listed below include the officers who have been designated by our Board of Directors as our Section 16 executive officers.





Name and PositionAgeBusiness Experience in Past Five Years

John W. Gibson602012 to presentChairman and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer2011Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2011Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, ONEOK

2010 to 2011President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2010 to 2011Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners

2007 to 2009Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2007 to 2009Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners

2006 to presentMember of the Board of Directors, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Terry K. Spencer532012 to presentPresident, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

President2010 to presentMember of the Board of Directors, ONEOK Partners

2009 to 2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners

2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas Liquids, ONEOK Partners

Pierce H. Norton II532013 to presentExecutive Vice President, Commercial, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Executive Vice President, Commercial2012Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK

2009 to 2011President, ONEOK Distribution Companies, ONEOK

2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas, ONEOK Partners

Robert F. Martinovich552013 to presentExecutive Vice President, Operations, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Executive Vice President, Operations2012Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2011 to 2012Member of the Board of Directors, ONEOK Partners

2011Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2009 to 2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK

2007 to 2009President, Gathering and Processing, ONEOK Partners

Stephen W. Lake492012 to presentSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Senior Vice President, General Counseland Assistant Secretary2011Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2008 to 2011Executive Vice President and General Counsel, McJunkin Red Man Corporation

1998 to 2008Partner, Gable & Gotwals, A Professional Corporation

Derek S. Reiners412013 to presentSenior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer2009 to 2012Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2004 to 2009Partner, Grant Thornton LLP

Sheppard F. Miers III442013 to presentVice President and Chief Accounting Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer2009 to 2012Vice President and Controller, ONEOK Partners

2005 to 2009Vice President, ONEOK



No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.





INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE



We make available, free of charge, on our website (www.oneok.com) copies of our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and reports of holdings of our securities filed by our officers and directors under Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.  Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Governance Guidelines, Partnership Agreement and the written charter of our Audit Committee are also available on our website, and we will provide copies of these documents upon request.  Our website and any contents thereof are not incorporated by reference into this report.



We also make available on our website the Interactive Data Files required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.














