ITEM 1.                      BUSINESS



GENERAL



We are a diversified energy company and successor to the company founded in 1906 known as Oklahoma Natural Gas Company.  We are a corporation incorporated under the laws of the state of Oklahoma and our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol “OKE.”  We are the sole general partner and own 42.8 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships.  ONEOK Partners is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States.  In addition, ONEOK Partners owns one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers.  We are the largest natural gas distributor in Oklahoma and Kansas and the third largest natural gas distributor in Texas, providing service as a regulated public utility to wholesale and retail customers.  Our largest distribution markets are Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Oklahoma; Kansas City, Wichita and Topeka, Kansas; and Austin and El Paso, Texas.  Our energy services business is engaged in providing premium natural gas marketing services to its customers across the United States.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



North American natural gas production continues to increase at a faster rate than demand, primarily as a result of increased production from unconventional resource areas, such as shale plays.  Because of the relatively higher market prices of crude oil and NGLs, drilling activity is especially robust in shale plays with crude oil and NGL-rich natural gas production.  As a result, we expect producers to focus development efforts on crude oil and NGL-rich supply basins rather than areas with dry natural gas production.  We expect inter-regional opportunities for midstream infrastructure development driven by producers who need to connect emerging production with end use markets where current infrastructure is either insufficient or nonexistent.



In 2011, producers continued to drill aggressively in a number of NGL-rich resource plays in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions, creating a need for additional infrastructure to bring this new supply to market.  The resulting increase in natural gas supply has caused lower natural gas prices, less volatility and narrower natural gas location and seasonal price differentials in the markets we serve.

Additionally, we have seen strong ethane demand from the petrochemical sector in the Gulf Coast, due to the price advantage ethane has over other feedstocks.  Consequently, NGL pipeline capacity between the Conway, Kansas, and Mont Belvieu, Texas, market centers is constrained and contributes to wider location price differentials between those markets.  The natural gas supply growth has also increased NGL supply in the Mid-Continent, coupled with increased demand in the Gulf Coast, resulting in decreased NGL prices in the Mid-Continent market center at Conway, Kansas, relative to prices in the Gulf Coast market center at Mont Belvieu, Texas.



Additional fractionation and pipeline capacity is needed to accommodate the growing NGL supply and demand, as well as new infrastructure to gather, process and transport growing natural gas production from both new and existing resource plays.  In response to this increased production and demand for NGL products, ONEOK Partners is investing approximately $2.7 billion to $3.3 billion in new capital projects to meet the needs of oil and natural gas producers in the Bakken Shale, the Cana-Woodford Shale and the Granite Wash areas, and for additional NGL infrastructure in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast areas that will enhance the distribution of NGL products to meet the increasing petrochemical industry and NGL export demand.  When completed, ONEOK Partners expects these projects to provide additional earnings and cash flows.



During 2011, we paid cash dividends of $2.16 per share, an increase of approximately 18.7 percent from the $1.82 per share paid during 2010.  In January 2012, we declared a dividend of $0.61 per share ($2.44 per share on an annualized basis), an increase of approximately 17.3 percent from the $0.52 declared in January 2011.



During 2011, ONEOK Partners paid cash distributions to its limited partners of $2.325 per unit, an increase of approximately 4.3 percent from the $2.23 per unit paid during 2010.  In January 2012, a cash distribution to ONEOK Partners’ limited partners of $0.61 per unit ($2.44 per unit on an annualized basis) was declared, an increase of approximately 7.0 percent from the $0.57 declared in January 2011.



In January 2012, we completed an underwritten public offering of $700 million of 4.25-percent senior notes due 2022.  The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated expenses, of approximately $693.9 million were used to repay amounts outstanding under our $1.2 billion commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes, which may include one or more of the following:  the repurchase of our common stock, the purchase of additional common units of ONEOK Partners and the payment of dividends.





During 2011, we relied primarily on operating cash flow, commercial paper and distributions from ONEOK Partners to fund our short-term liquidity and capital requirements, repay $400 million of maturing senior notes and redeem $90.5 million of 6.4-percent senior notes.  In January 2011, ONEOK Partners completed an underwritten public offering of senior notes generating net proceeds of approximately $1.28 billion.  ONEOK Partners utilized proceeds from its January 2011 debt issuance, its cash from operations and its commercial paper program, to repay $225 million of its maturing senior notes and to fund its capital projects and short-term liquidity needs.



In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell ONEOK Energy Marketing Company to Constellation Energy Group, Inc. for $22.5 million plus working capital.  The transaction closed on February 1, 2012.  The financial information of ONEOK Energy Marketing Company is reflected as discontinued operations in this Annual Report.  All prior periods presented have been recast to reflect the discontinued operations.



We anticipate that our cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources, including proceeds from the issuance of our $700 million 4.25-percent senior notes issued in January 2012, and distributions from ONEOK Partners will enable us to maintain our current level of operations, our planned operations and fund the remainder of our three-year, $750 million stock repurchase program.  ONEOK Partners anticipates that its cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources and ability to obtain financing will enable it to maintain its current level of operations and its planned operations.  Additionally, ONEOK Partners expects to fund its capital expenditures with short- and long-term debt, the issuance of equity and operating cash flows.



See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, for more information on our growth projects, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources.



BUSINESS STRATEGY



Our primary business strategy is to deliver consistent growth and sustainable earnings, while focusing on safe, reliable and environmentally responsible operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the public through the following:

·Operate in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible manner- environmental, safety and health issues continue to be a primary focus for us; our emphasis on personal and process safety has produced improvements in the key indicators we track.  We also continue to look for ways to reduce our environmental impact by conserving resources and utilizing more efficient technologies;

·Generate consistent growth and sustainable earnings- during 2011, ONEOK Partners’ cash distributions increased by 9.5 cents, an approximate 4.3-percent increase compared with 2010; ONEOK Partners is investing approximately $2.7 billion to $3.3 billion in new capital projects to meet the needs of oil and natural gas producers in the Bakken Shale, the Cana-Woodford Shale and the Granite Wash areas, and to provide additional NGL infrastructure in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast areas that will enhance its ability to distribute NGL products to meet the increasing petrochemical industry and NGL export demand.  When completed, these projects are anticipated to provide additional earnings and cash flows.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment benefits from rate strategies, including a performance-based rate mechanism in Oklahoma, capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas and cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas jurisdictions that address investments in rate base and changes in expense; our Natural Gas Distribution segment’s operating efficiencies include investments in automated meters in Oklahoma and Texas.  Our Energy Services segment has undertaken several steps to realign fixed costs with its current business environment, including attempts to renegotiate various storage and transportation agreements and continuing to realign its contracted storage and transportation capacity with its customers’ premium-service requirements;

·Execute strategic acquisitions that provide long-term value- we remain a disciplined buyer of assets and continue to evaluate assets that come to market.  We did not consummate any acquisitions in 2011;

·Manage our balance sheet to maintain strong credit ratings- our balance sheet remains strong, ending 2011 with a capital structure of 45-percent debt and 55-percent equity, excluding the debt of ONEOK Partners.  We will seek to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and

·Attract, develop and retain employees to support strategy execution- we continue to execute on our recruiting strategy that targets colleges, universities and vocational-technical schools in our operating areas.  We also continue development efforts with our employees.



NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



We report operations in the following business segments:

·ONEOK Partners;

·Natural Gas Distribution; and

·Energy Services.





ONEOK Partners



Overview-ONEOK Partners is a diversified master limited partnership involved in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States.  In addition, ONEOK Partners owns one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers.



We own approximately 84.8 million common and Class B limited partner units, and the entire 2-percent general partner interest, which, together, represent a 42.8-percent ownership interest in ONEOK Partners.  We receive distributions from ONEOK Partners on our common and Class B units and our 2-percent general partner interest, which includes our incentive distribution rights.  See Note P of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for discussion of our incentive distribution rights.



We and ONEOK Partners maintain significant financial and corporate governance separations.  We seek to receive increasing cash distributions as a result of our investment in ONEOK Partners, and our investment decisions are made based on the anticipated returns from ONEOK Partners in total, not specific to any of ONEOK Partners’ businesses individually.  To aid in understanding the important business and financial characteristics of our ONEOK Partners segment, the following describes its business with reference to its underlying activities.



Natural gas gathering and processing business-ONEOKPartners’ natural gas gathering and processing business provides nondiscretionary services to producers that include gathering and processing of natural gas produced from crude oil and natural gas wells.  ONEOK Partners gathers and processes natural gas in the Mid-Continent region, which includes the NGL-rich Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash formations; the Mississippian Lime formation of Oklahoma and Kansas; and the Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas.  It also gathers and/or processes natural gas in two producing basins in the Rocky Mountain region:  the Williston Basin, which spans portions of Montana and North Dakota and includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations; and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming.  In the Powder River Basin, the natural gas that ONEOK Partners gathers is coal-bed methane, or dry, natural gas that does not require processing or NGL extraction in order to be marketable; dry, natural gas is gathered, compressed and delivered into a downstream pipeline or marketed for a fee.



In the Mid-Continent region and the Williston Basin, unprocessed natural gas is compressed and transported through pipelines to processing facilities where volumes are aggregated, treated and processed to remove water vapor, solids and other contaminants, and to extract NGLs in order to provide marketable natural gas, commonly referred to as residue gas.   The residue gas, which consists primarily of methane, is compressed and delivered to natural gas pipelines for transportation to end users.  When the NGLs are separated from the unprocessed natural gas at the processing plants, the NGLs are in the form of a mixed, unfractionated NGL stream.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and NGLs are sold to affiliates and a diverse customer base.



Revenue from the natural gas gathering and processing business is derived primarily from the following three types of contracts:

·POP - ONEOK Partners retains a percentage of the NGLs and/or a percentage of the residue gas as payment for gathering, treating, compressing and processing the producer’s natural gas.  This type of contract represented approximately 37 percent and 35 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2011 and 2010, respectively.

·Fee - ONEOK Partners is paid a fee for the services it provides based on Btus gathered, treated, compressed and/or processed.  This type of contract represented approximately 60 percent and 61 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2011 and 2010, respectively.

·Keep-whole - ONEOK Partners extracts NGLs from unprocessed natural gas and returns to the producer volumes of residue gas containing the same amount of Btus as the unprocessed natural gas that was originally delivered.  This type of contract represented approximately 3 percent and 4 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2011 and 2010, respectively, with approximately 75 percent and 85 percent, respectively, of that volume under contracts that effectively convert into fee contracts when the gross processing spread is negative.



Natural gas pipelines business-ONEOKPartners’ natural gas pipeline business owns and operates regulated natural gas transmission pipelines, natural gas storage facilities and natural gas gathering systems for unprocessed natural gas.  ONEOK Partners also provides interstate natural gas transportation and storage services in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.



ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated interstate assets transport natural gas through pipelines that access supply from Canada and from the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas pipeline assets are located in Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas, and have access to major natural gas producing areas in those states.  ONEOK Partners owns underground natural gas storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.





ONEOK Partners’ revenues from its natural gas pipelines are derived typically from fee-based services provided to its customers under the following types of fee-based contracts:

·Firm service - Customers can reserve a fixed quantity of pipeline or storage capacity for the terms of their contracts.  Under firm-service contracts, the customer pays a fixed fee for a specified quantity regardless of their actual usage and is generally guaranteed access to the capacity they reserve; and

·Interruptible service - Customers may utilize available capacity after firm-service requests are satisfied or on an as-available basis.  Under the interruptible service contract, the customer is provided capacity in of our pipelines and storage facilities on an interruptible basis.



Natural gas liquids business-ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business gathers, treats, fractionates, stores and transports NGLs and distributes and stores NGL products.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering pipelines deliver unfractionated NGLs gathered from natural gas processing plants located in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas and the Rocky Mountain region to fractionators it owns in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, as well as to third-party fractionators and pipelines.  The NGLs are then separated through the fractionation process into the individual NGL products that realize the greater economic value of the NGL components.  The individual NGL products are then stored or distributed to petrochemical manufacturers, heating-fuel users, refineries and propane distributors through ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated distribution pipelines that move NGL products from Oklahoma and Kansas to the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast NGL market centers, as well as the Midwest markets near Chicago, Illinois.



Revenue for the natural gas liquids business is derived primarily from fee-based services provided to ONEOK Partners’ customers and physical optimization of its assets.  The sources of revenue are categorized as follows:

·ONEOK Partners’ exchange services business primarily collects fees to gather, fractionate and treat unfractionated NGLs, thereby converting them into marketable NGL products that are stored and shipped to a market center or customer-designated location.

·ONEOK Partners’ optimization and marketing business utilizes our assets, contract portfolio and market knowledge to capture location and seasonal price differentials.  ONEOK Partners transports NGL products between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast in order to capture the location price differentials between the two market centers.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids storage facilities are also utilized to capture seasonal price variances.

·ONEOK Partners’ pipeline transportation business transports raw NGLs, finished NGL products and refined petroleum products primarily under our FERC-regulated tariffs.  Tariffs specify the rates ONEOK Partners charges its customers and the general terms and conditions for NGL transportation service on its pipelines.

·ONEOK Partners’ isomerization business captures the price differential when normal butane is converted into the more valuable iso-butane at its isomerization unit in Conway, Kansas.  Iso-butane is used in the refining industry to increase the octane of motor gasoline.

·ONEOK Partners’ storage business collects fees to store NGLs at its Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast facilities.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply- Natural gas and NGL supply is affected by drilling rig availability, operating capability and producer drilling activity, which are sensitive to commodity prices, exploration success, the liquid content of the natural gas that is produced and processed, access to capital and regulatory control.  Higher crude oil prices and advances in horizontal drilling and completion technologies are having a positive impact on drilling activity in the oil and NGL-rich shale areas and other resource plays, providing an offset to the less favorable supply projections in the dry gas areas.  As new supply is developed, ONEOK Partners’ customers may require incremental services to bring their production to market.



In the Rocky Mountain region, Williston Basin volumes continue to grow as drilling activity increases, driven primarily by producer development of Bakken Shale crude oil wells, which also produce associated natural gas containing significant amounts of NGLs.  However, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business has seen declines in natural gas volumes gathered in the Powder River Basin, which is dry gas.



In the Mid-Continent region, ONEOK Partners expects increased drilling activity in the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas of western Oklahoma and the Mississippian Lime formation of Oklahoma and Kansas to more than offset the volumetric declines in most conventional wells that supply ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing facilities and intrastate natural gas pipelines and storage assets.



ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines access supply from major producing regions in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Gulf Coast and Canada.





ONEOK Partners expects the overall supply of NGLs to continue to increase as well as demand for fee-based services as a result of the development of shale areas and other resource plays.  Many new natural gas processing plants are being constructed in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle to process NGL-rich natural gas being produced in the Cana-Woodford Shale, the Granite Wash, the Woodford Shale and the emerging Mississippian Lime formations.  ONEOK Partners’ NGL gathering and fractionation operations receive NGLs from a variety of processors and pipelines, including affiliates, located in these regions.



ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing and natural gas liquids businesses are also affected by operational or market-driven changes that impact the output of natural gas processing plants.  The differential between the composite price of NGL products and the price of natural gas, particularly the differential between the price of ethane and the price of natural gas, may influence processing plant NGL output.  During 2011, ethane prices remained significantly above natural gas prices on a relative Btu basis, which resulted in an economic incentive for ethane recovery from ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plants and third-party natural gas processing plants that deliver NGLs to ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering pipelines.



Demand-Demand for natural gas gathering and processing services is aligned typically with the production of natural gas from natural gas plays or the associated natural gas from wells drilled in crude oil plays.  Gathering and processing are nondiscretionary services that producers require to market their natural gas and natural gas liquid production.  As producers continue to develop shale and other resource plays, ONEOK Partners expects demand for its gathering and processing services to increase.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plant operations can be adjusted to respond to market conditions, such as demand for ethane.  By changing operating parameters at certain plants, ONEOK Partners can reduce, to some extent, the amount of ethane and propane recovered in its processing plants if prices or processing margins are unfavorable.



Demand for natural gas pipeline transportation service and natural gas storage is related directly to demand for natural gas in the markets that the natural gas pipelines and storage facilities serve, and is affected by weather, the economy and natural gas price volatility.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines primarily serve end-users, such as natural gas distribution companies and electric-generation companies, that require natural gas to operate their businesses and generally are not impacted by location price differentials.  However, narrower location differentials may impact demand for ONEOK Partners’ services from natural gas marketers as discussed below under “Commodity Prices.”  Demand for ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines services can also be impacted as coal-fired electric generators consider natural gas as an alternative fuel.



The strength of the economy directly impacts manufacturing and industrial companies that consume natural gas.  Commodity price volatility can influence producers’ decisions related to the production of natural gas, the level of NGLs processed from natural gas and natural gas storage injection and withdrawal activity.



Demand for NGLs and the ability of natural gas processors to sustain successfully and economically their operations impacts the volume of unfractionated NGLs produced by natural gas processing plants, thereby affecting the demand for NGL gathering, fractionation and distribution services.  Natural gas and propane are subject to weather-related seasonal demand.  Other NGL products are affected by economic conditions and the demand associated with the various industries that utilize the commodity, such as butanes and natural gasoline, which are used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denaturant for ethanol and diluents for crude oil.  Ethane, propane, normal butane and natural gasoline are used by the petrochemical industry to produce chemical products, such as plastics, rubber and synthetic fibers.  During 2011, several petrochemical companies announced new plants, plant expansions, additions or enhancements that improve the light-NGL feed capability of their facilities due primarily to the increased supply and attractive price of ethane as a petrochemical feedstock in the United States.  These projects are expected to increase significantly ethane demand over the next five years.  In addition, international demand for propane is expected to impact the NGL market in the future.  ONEOK Partners expects this increase in demand for NGLs to add incremental fee-based earnings to its natural gas liquids business.



Commodity Prices-Crudeoil, natural gas and NGL prices can be volatile due to changes in market conditions.  Commodity prices can also be impacted by demand for products from the petrochemical industry and other consumers, storage injection and withdrawal rates and available storage capacity.  The increase in natural gas supply from shale gas development has caused natural gas prices to decline and natural gas location and seasonal price differentials to narrow across most of the regions where ONEOK Partners operates.  However, an increase in crude oil prices and the abundance of NGLs produced from the development of NGL-rich shale resource plays have made producing NGL feedstocks for the petrochemical industry more profitable.  ONEOK Partners is exposed to commodity price risk in its natural gas gathering and processing business, as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for services, primarily on POP contracts, and in its natural gas liquids business from the NGLs it purchases and sells.  ONEOK Partners is also exposed to market risk associated with the price differentials between receipt and delivery points along its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, also known as location





differentials.  Fluctuations in location differentials impact the rates its natural gas pipelines’ customers with competitive alternatives are willing to pay and the optimization opportunities for its natural gas liquids business.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and NGL storage revenues are impacted by the differential between the forward price of natural gas and NGLs and the price of natural gas and NGLs on the spot market.  Additionally, fluctuations in the relative price differential between natural gas, NGLs and individual NGL products impacts ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids exchange services and transportation revenues and, to a lesser extent, margins on its natural gas gathering and processing keep-whole contracts.



Seasonality-OurONEOK Partners segment’s products are subject to weather-related seasonal demand.  Cold temperatures typically increase demand for natural gas and propane, which are used to heat homes and businesses.  Warm temperatures typically drive demand for natural gas used for natural gas-fired electric generation needed to meet the electricity-generation demand required to cool residential and commercial properties.  Precipitation levels also can impact the demand for natural gas that is used to fuel irrigation activity in the Mid-Continent region and demand for propane used to fuel crop-drying activity.  Demand for butane and natural gasoline, which are used primarily by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denaturant for ethanol and diluents for crude oil, may also be subject to some variability as automotive travel increases and as seasonal gasoline formulation standards are implemented.  During periods of peak demand for a certain commodity, prices for that product typically increase, which may influence processing and fractionation decisions.



Competition-ONEOKPartners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids businesses compete directly with other companies for natural gas and NGL supplies, markets and services.  Competition for natural gas transportation services continues to increase as new infrastructure projects are completed and the FERC and state regulatory bodies continue to encourage additional competition in the natural gas markets.  Competition is based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and forward natural gas and NGL prices and proximity to supply areas and markets.  ONEOK Partners believes that the location and integration of its assets enable it to compete effectively.



ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business competes for natural gas supplies with independent exploration and production companies that have gathering and processing assets, pipeline companies and their affiliated marketing companies, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, and marketers in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business competes with other fractionators, storage providers, gatherers and transporters for NGL supplies in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.  The factors that typically affect ONEOK Partners’ ability to compete for natural gas and NGL supplies are:

·fees charged under its contracts;

·pressures maintained on its gathering systems;

·location of its assets relative to those of its competitors;

·location of its assets relative to drilling activity;

·efficiency and reliability of its operations; and

·receipt and delivery capabilities that exist in each system, plant, fractionator and storage location.



ONEOK Partners is responding to these factors by making capital investments to access new supplies; increasing gathering, fractionation, storage and transportation capacity; increasing storage, withdrawal and injection capabilities; and improving natural gas processing efficiency and reducing operating costs.  ONEOK Partners’ competitors have also recently announced plans for new natural gas gathering and processing facilities and natural gas liquids pipelines and fractionators to address the growing natural gas and NGL supply and petrochemical demand.  When completed, ONEOK Partners’ growth projects and those of its competitors are expected to impact NGL prices and narrow location differentials between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast market centers.  ONEOK Partners is also evaluating asset consolidation opportunities to maximize earnings and renegotiating low-margin contracts.  The principal goal of the contract renegotiation effort is to improve margins and reduce risk.



Government Regulation-The FERC traditionally has maintained that a natural gas processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act.  Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing operations or facilities, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in extracting NGLs and, therefore, ONEOK Partners believes, its natural gas processing plants are exempt from FERC jurisdiction.  The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC.  ONEOK Partners believes its natural gas gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the FERC for nonjurisdictional gathering facility status.  However, ONEOK Partners is subject to newly adopted FERC regulations that require it to post publicly certain natural gas flow information on ONEOK Partners’ website.  Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction.  The FERC has distinguished historically between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis.  ONEOK Partners also transports residue gas from its natural gas processing plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.





Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, in various degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states.  In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency.



ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines are regulated under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act, which give the FERC jurisdiction to regulate virtually all aspects of the pipeline activities.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas transportation assets in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are regulated by the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively.  ONEOK Partners has flexibility in establishing natural gas transportation rates with customers.  However, there are maximum rates that ONEOK Partners can charge its customers in Oklahoma and Kansas.



ONEOK Partners’ proprietary natural gas liquids gathering pipelines, fractionation and storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are not regulated by the FERC or the states’ respective corporation commissions.  ONEOK Partners’ remaining natural gas liquids pipelines are regulated by the FERC, which has authority over the terms and conditions of service, rates, including depreciation and amortization policies, and initiation of service.  In Kansas and Texas, ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas liquids pipelines that provide common carrier services are subject to the jurisdiction of the KCC and RRC, respectively, which have oversight regarding services provided.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.



Unconsolidated Affiliates- Our ONEOK Partners segment has investments in unconsolidated affiliates that include Northern Border Pipeline, Overland Pass Pipeline Company, three partnerships that operate natural gas gathering systems located primarily in the Powder River of Wyoming and other investments.  Northern Border Pipeline is a leading transporter of natural gas imported from Canada into the United States.  Overland Pass Pipeline Company operates an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline system that transports natural gas liquids from the Rocky Mountain region to the Mid-Continent NGL market center.



See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of ONEOK Partners’ unconsolidated affiliates.



Natural Gas Distribution



Overview-Our Natural Gas Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas through Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service.  We serve residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers in all three states.  In addition, our LDCs serve wholesale and public authority customers.  We operate subject to regulations and oversight of the state regulatory agencies.  Our regulatory strategy incorporates features that reduce earnings lag, protect margin and mitigate risks.



Our strategies to reduce earnings lag include a performance-based rate mechanism in Oklahoma and capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas.  In addition, we also have cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas markets that address investments in rate base and changes in operating expenses.



Margin protection strategies include increasing the portion of our service fees that is fixed rather than volumetrically based.  Customer consumption is a function of price levels and weather conditions.  Weather normalization mechanisms limit our sensitivity to weather.



Risk mitigation strategies include mechanisms to recover the fuel-related component of bad debts in Oklahoma, Kansas and portions of Texas and pension and other post-retirement benefits and ad valorem taxes in Kansas.



Our operating results are affected primarily by the number of customers, usage and the ability to collect delivery rates that provide a reasonable rate of return on our investment and recovery of our cost of service.  Natural gas costs are passed through to our customers based on the actual cost of natural gas purchased by the respective natural gas distribution companies and related expenses.  Substantial fluctuations in natural gas sales can occur from year to year without materially or adversely impacting our net margin, since the fluctuations in natural gas costs affect natural gas sales and cost of gas by an equivalent amount.  Higher natural gas costs may cause customers to conserve or use alternative energy sources.  Higher natural gas costs may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense.  Recovery of the fuel-related portion of bad debts is allowed in all three states.



Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service distribute natural gas as public utilities to approximately 82 percent, 67 percent and 14 percent of the natural gas distribution markets for Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, respectively.  Natural gas sold to residential and commercial customers accounts for approximately 81 and 18 percent of our natural gas





sales, respectively, in Oklahoma; 80 and 19 percent of our natural gas sales, respectively, in Kansas; and 69 and 23 percent of our natural gas sales, respectively, in Texas.



In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell ONEOK Energy Marketing Company to Constellation Energy Group, Inc. for $22.5 million plus working capital.  The transaction closed on February 1, 2012.  The financial information of ONEOK Energy Marketing Company is reflected as discontinued operations in this Annual Report.  All prior periods presented have been recast to reflect the discontinued operations.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply-Our LDCs purchased 163 Bcf and 186 Bcf of natural gas supply in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Our natural gas supply portfolio consists of long-term, seasonal and short-term contracts from a diverse group of suppliers.  These contracts are awarded through competitive-bidding processes to ensure reliable and competitively priced natural gas supply.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment’s natural gas supply is acquired from natural gas processing plants, natural gas marketers and natural gas producers.



An objective of our supply-sourcing strategy is to provide value to customers through reliable, competitively priced and flexible gas supply and transportation purchases from multiple production areas and suppliers.  This strategy isdesigned to protect receipt of supply from being curtailed by physical interruption, possible financial difficulties of a single supplier, natural disasters and other unforeseen force majeure events, as well as ensuring these resources are reliable and flexible to meet the variations of customer demands.



We do not anticipate problems with securing natural gas supply to satisfy customer demand; however, if supply shortages were to occur, each of our LDCs has curtailment tariff provisions in place that provide for:  reducing or discontinuing natural gas service to large industrial users; and requesting that residential and commercial customers reduce their natural gas requirements to an amount essential for public health and safety.  In addition, during times of critical supply disruptions, curtailments of deliveries to customers with firm contracts may be made in accordance with guidelines established by appropriate federal, state and local regulatory agencies.



Natural gas supply requirements are affected by weather conditions.  In addition, economic conditions impact the requirements of our commercial and industrial customers.  Natural gas usage per residential customer may decline as customers change their consumption patterns in response to:  (i) more volatile and higher natural gas prices, as discussed above; (ii)customers’ improving the energy efficiency of existing homes by replacing doors and windows and adding insulation, and retrofitting natural gas appliances with more efficient appliances; (iii) more energy-efficient construction; and (iv) fuel switching.  In each jurisdiction in which we operate, changes in customer usage profiles are considered in the design of our rates.



In managing our natural gas supply portfolios, we partially mitigate price volatility using a combination of financial derivatives and fixed price contracts.  We have natural gas hedging programs in each state that have been approved by the respective states’ regulatory authorities.  We do not utilize financial derivatives for speculative purposes nor do we have trading operations associated with our Natural Gas Distribution segment.  In addition, we utilized 39.3 Bcf of contracted storage capacity in 2011, which allows gas to be purchased during the off-peak season and stored for use in the winter periods.



Demand-See discussion below under “Seasonality” and “Competition” for factors affecting demand for our services.



Seasonality-Natural gas sales to residential and commercial customers are seasonal, as a substantial portion of their natural gas requirements are for heating.  Accordingly, the volume of natural gas sales is higher normally during the months of November through March than in other months of the year.  The impact on margins for our LDCs resulting from weather that is above or below normal is offset in part through weather-normalization adjustments (WNA).  These adjustments have been approved by the regulatory authorities for our Oklahoma, Kansas and certain Texas service territories.  WNA allows us to increase customer billing to offset lower gas usage when weather is warmer than normal and decrease customer billing to offset higher gas usage when weather is colder than normal.



Competition-We encounter competition based on customers’ preference for natural gas, compared with other energy products and their comparative prices.  The most significant product competition occurs between natural gas and electricity in the residential and small commercial markets.  We compete for space and water heating, cooking, clothes drying and other general energy needs.  Customers and builders typically make the decision on the type of equipment at initialinstallation and use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment.  The markets in our service territories have become increasingly competitive.  Changes in the competitive position of natural gas relative to electricity and other energy products have the potential to cause a decline in consumption or in the number of natural gas customers.





However, recent studies have demonstrated that assessing energy efficiency in terms of full fuel-cycle analysis highlights the high overall efficiency of natural gas in residential and commercial uses, compared with electricity.  The Department of Energy recently issued a statement of policy that it will use full fuel-cycle measures of energy use and emissions when evaluating energy-conservation standards for appliances.  Further, independent studies show that natural gas provides a cost advantage over electricity for typical home and business applications.



We believe that we must maintain a competitive advantage in order to retain our customers, and, accordingly, we focus on providing safe, reliable and efficient service and controlling costs.  Our Natural Gas Distribution segment is subject to competition from other pipelines for our existing industrial load.  Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service compete for service to large industrial and commercial customers, and competition has and may continue to impact margins.



Under our transportation tariffs, qualifying industrial and commercial customers are able to purchase their natural gas commodity from the supplier of their choice and have us transport it for a fee.  A portion of transportation services provided is at negotiated rates that are generally below the maximum approved transportation tariff rates.  Reduced rate transportation service may be negotiated when a competitive pipeline is in proximity or another viable energy option is available.  Increased competition could potentially lower these rates.



Government Regulation- Rates charged by LDCs in our Natural Gas Distribution segment for natural gas services are established by the OCC for Oklahoma Natural Gas and by the KCC for Kansas Gas Service.  Texas Gas Service is subject to regulatory oversight by the various municipalities that it serves, which have primary jurisdiction in their respective areas.  Rates in unincorporated areas of Texas and all appellate matters are subject to regulatory oversight by the RRC.  Natural gas supply costs for our LDCs are passed on to our customers through a purchased-gas cost-adjustment mechanism.  We do not make a profit on the cost of natural gas.  Other changes in costs must be recovered through periodic rate adjustments approved by the OCC, KCC, RRC and various municipalities in Texas.  See pages 52 for a detailed description of our various regulatory initiatives.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.



Energy Services



Overview-Our Energy Services segment is a provider of non-uniform natural gas supply and risk-management services for natural gas and electric utilities and commercial and industrial customers with natural gas needs.  We use a network of leased storage and transportation capacity to supply natural gas to our customers.  This network connects the major supply and demand centers throughout the United States and into Canada and, coupled with our industry knowledge and market intelligence, allows us to provide our customers customized services in a more efficient and reliable manner than they can achieve independently.



Strategy- We follow a strategy of optimizing our storage and cross-regional transportation capacity through the application of market knowledge and effective risk management.  We seek to maximize value by actively hedging the risks associated with seasonal and location price differentials that are inherent to storage and transportation contracts.  At the same time, we attempt to capitalize on opportunities created by market volatility, weather-related events, supply-demand imbalances and market inefficiencies, which allow us to capture additional margin.  Using market information, we manage these asset-based positions and seek to provide incremental margin in our trading portfolio.



To ensure natural gas is available when our customers need it, we offer premium services and products that satisfy our customers’ non-uniform supply needs such as swing and peaking natural gas load requirements on a year-round basis.  Types of premium services include next-day and no-notice services.  Next-day services allow our customers to call on additional gas supply, up to an amount agreed upon in a service contract, and expect delivery the following day.  No-notice services allow customers to call on additional gas supply and expect immediate delivery.  We also provide weather-related protection and other custom solutions based on our customers’ specific needs.  Our storage and transportation assets enable us to provide these services and provide us with opportunities to capture daily, monthly and seasonal value due to market inefficiencies.



As a result of significant increases in the supply of natural gas, primarily from shale production across North America, location and seasonal differentials have significantly narrowed, resulting in reduced opportunities to optimize our firm transportation and storage capacity.  Additionally, price volatility in the natural gas markets has diminished, which further limits opportunities to optimize our assets.  We have undertaken several steps to better align fixed costs with the current business environment, including attempts to renegotiate various natural gas storage and transportation contracts.  Contract renegotiation activities that we have taken or expect to consider further include renewing contracts at current market prices at contract expiration, extending contracts in order to negotiate a more favorable rate or paying to terminate contracts in areas that are no longer strategic to our business.  It is possible that we may recognize charges to our earnings as a result of certain of these actions.  These changes would result in a better alignment of our contracted natural gas transportation and storage



capacity with the needs of our premium-services customers.  We also expect the effect of these strategies to be a reduction in our contracted natural gas transportation and storage capacity, which should reduce our operating costs and working-capital requirements primarily through a reduction in natural gas inventory levels.



Approximately 14 percent of our transportation capacity and approximately 20 percent of our storage capacity expire by the end of 2012, and an additional amount of approximately 64 percent of our transportation capacity and an additional amount of approximately 68 percent of our storage capacity expires by the end of 2015.



Derivatives- It is our intention to minimize the mark-to-market earnings impact that our forward hedges have on current period earnings. When possible, we implement hedging strategies using derivative instruments that qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.  We actively manage the commodity price and volatility risks associated with providing energy risk-management services to our customers by executing derivative instruments in accordance with the parameters established in our commodity risk-management policy.  The derivative instruments consist of over-the-counter transactions such as forward, swap and option contracts, and NYMEX futures and option contracts.



We utilize our experience to optimize the value of our contracted assets and use our risk management and marketing capabilities to both manage risk and generate additional margins.  We apply a combination of cash flow and fair value hedge accounting when implementing hedging strategies that take advantage of favorable market conditions.  See Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information.  Additionally, certain non-trading transactions, which are economic hedges of our accrual transactions such as certain of our storage and transportation contracts, will not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  These economic hedges receive mark-to-market accounting treatment, as they are derivative contracts and are not designated as part of a hedge relationship.  As a result, the underlying risk being hedged receives accrual accounting treatment, while we use mark-to-market accounting treatment for the economic hedges.  We cannot predict the earnings fluctuations from mark-to-market accounting, and the impact on earnings could be material.



In prior years, we were able to hedge location differentials and seasonal storage differentials at more favorable levels compared with opportunities currently available to us.  These factors have impacted negatively our Energy Services segment’s results of operations in 2011, and we anticipate these factors will persist throughout 2012 and potentially into 2013.  A significant amount of our storage and transportation hedges that were entered into at favorable levels were realized by the end of 2011.



Working Capital- Our Energy Services segment requires working capital to purchase natural gas inventory, to reserve transportation and storage capacity and to meet cash collateral requirements associated with our risk-management activities.  Our inventory purchases and hedging strategies are implemented with consideration given to ONEOK’s overall working capital requirements and liquidity.  Restrictions on our access to working capital may impact our inventory purchases and risk-management activities, which could impact our results.  Our working capital costs would be impacted by a change in ONEOK’s current investment-grade credit ratings or a significant increase in commodity prices.  See discussion under “Credit Risk” of Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information about the impact of a change in ONEOK’s credit rating.



Our working capital requirements related to our inventory in storage were as high as $297.9 million during 2011 and had decreased to $215.0 million by December 31, 2011.  In addition, margin requirements can result in increased working capital requirements.  During 2011, the amount we were required to post with counterparties to meet our margin requirements ranged from zero to $22.6 million, and the amount posted for our benefit by our counterparties ranged from zero to $60.5 million.



Sales with Affiliates- Our Energy Services segment conducts business with our ONEOK Partners and Natural Gas Distribution segments.  These services are provided under agreements with market-based terms.  Additionally, business with our LDCs is awarded through a competitive-bidding process.  We provide supply and risk-management service to certain retail marketing operations, including the retail marketing portion of our Natural Gas Distribution segment that was sold in February 2012.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply- Our Energy Services segment maintains a natural gas supply portfolio consisting of various term-length contracted supply in all of the major producing regions, including the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast.  During periods of high natural gas demand, we utilize storage capacity that allows us to supplement natural gas supply volumes to meet our peak day demand obligations or market needs.



An increase in shale natural gas production and related pipeline construction across North America has resulted in greater natural gas supply, putting downward pressure on natural gas prices and narrowing the price differentials between regions.  The impact of lower natural gas prices and price volatility and narrower location and seasonal price differentials has resulted in reduced opportunities to capture incremental margin through optimization efforts.





Demand- Demand under our swing and peaking natural gas requirements contracts in our wholesale operation usually is driven by the extent to which temperatures vary from normal levels.  A significant portion of this business is contracted during the winter period of November through March.



The displacement of electric power-generation plants from coal to natural gas is resulting in a slight increase in demand for natural gas.  These displacements are being driven by the cost of natural gas relative to coal and to a lesser extent due to potential government regulations.



Customers continue to contract for storage, transportation and premium services but at lower prices due to lower natural gas prices resulting from the increased supply and lower natural gas price volatility.  Although future improvements in the U.S. economy, coupled with the depressed natural gas price environment, could increase modestly customer demand, we do not anticipate a significant change in customer demand in 2012.



Seasonality-Due to the seasonality of natural gas consumption, storage withdrawals and demand for our products and services, earnings are higher normally during the winter months than the summer months.  Natural gas sales volumes are higher typically in the winter heating months than in the summer months, reflecting increased demand due to greater heating requirements and, typically, higher natural gas prices.



Increased natural gas supply is also impacting negatively the seasonal price differentials.  There could be situations where winter prices are lower, due to mild weather and abundant supply, than the prices in the upcoming summer.  These changes could result in unfavorable pricing between periods that could result in losses on the withdrawal of natural gas from inventory.



Competition-In response to a challenging marketing environment, our strategy is to concentrate our efforts on providing reliable service during peak-demand periods.  We can compete effectively in the market by utilizing our contracted storage and transportation assets.  We continue to focus on building and strengthening supplier and customer relationships to execute our strategy and increase our market presence.



Government Regulation-Our Energy Services segment purchases natural gas for resale at negotiated rates in interstate commerce.  As such, it has been granted by FERC an automatic blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing such sales.  This is a limited certificate that does not subject our Energy Services segment to any other regulation of FERC under its Natural Gas Act jurisdiction.  Holders of blanket marketing certificates are subject to certain reporting and document retention requirements.



Market conditions and uncertainties associated with the implementation of financial reform through the Dodd-Frank Act have reduced liquidity in the financial derivatives markets, particularly for basis swaps, which make it difficult to implement forward hedges around our transportation and storage positions.  See “Financial Markets Legislation” for discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act.



SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Operating Income, Customers and Total Assets-See Note R of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for disclosure by segment of our operating income and total assets and for a discussion of revenues from external customers.



Other



Through ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., and ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C., we own a parking garage and an office building (ONEOK Plaza) in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our headquarters are located.  ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., leases excess office space to others and operates our headquarters office building.  ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C. owns and operates a parking garage adjacent to our headquarters.



FINANCIAL MARKETS LEGISLATION



The Dodd-Frank Act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for regulation of United States financial markets.  Various regulatory agencies, including the SEC and the CFTC, have proposed regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Although the CFTC has issued final regulations for certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, many remain outstanding.  In November 2011, the CFTC published final rules on speculative position limits, which we do not expect to impact directly our current risk-management practices.  In December 2011, the CFTC issued an order that further defers the effective date of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that require a rulemaking, such as definitions of





certain terms, until the earlier of the effective date of the final rule defining the reference terms or July 16, 2012.  Until the remaining final regulations are established, we are unable to ascertain how we may be affected by them.  Based on our assessment of the regulations issued to date and those proposed, we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our business, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the costs of doing so may increase as a result of the new legislation.  We also may incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations; however, we do not believe the costs will be material.  These requirements could affect adversely market liquidity and pricing of derivative contracts making it more difficult to execute our risk-management strategies in the future.  Also, the anticipated increased costs of compliance by dealers and counterparties likely will be passed on to customers, which could decrease the benefits of hedging to us and could reduce our profitability and liquidity.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY MATTERS



Additional information about our environmental matters is included in Note Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.



Environmental Liabilities-We are subject to multiple historical and wildlife preservation laws and environmental regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations.  Regulated activities include those involving air emissions; storm water and wastewater discharges; handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; hazardous materials transportation; and pipeline and facility construction.  These laws and regulations require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental clearances, registrations, licenses, permits and other approvals.  Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, licenses and permits may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations.  If a leak or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products occurs from pipelines or facilities that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including response, investigation and cleanup costs, which could affect materially our results of operations and cash flows.

In addition, emission controls required under the Clean Air Act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities.  We cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Pipeline Safety-We are subject to Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration regulations, including integrity- management regulations.  The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 requires pipeline companies operating high-pressure pipelines to perform integrity assessments on pipeline segments that pass through densely populated areas or near specifically designated high-consequence areas.  In January 2012, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 was signed into law.  The new law contains numerous requirements for the Secretary of Transportation to conduct further review or studies on issues that may or may not be material to us.  These issues include but are not limited to:

·an evaluation on whether hazardous natural gas liquid and natural gas pipeline integrity-management requirements should be expanded beyond current high-consequence areas;

·a review of all natural gas and hazardous natural gas liquid gathering pipeline exemptions;

·a verification of records for pipelines in Class 3 and 4 locations and high-consequence areas to confirm maximum allowable operating pressures; and

·a requirement to test pipelines previously untested in high-consequence areas operating above 30-percent yield strength.



The potential capital and operating expenditures related to this legislation, the associated regulations or other new pipeline safety regulations are unknown.



Air and Water Emissions-The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into the air and water in the United States.  Under the Clean Air Act, a federally enforceable operating permit is required for sources of significant air emissions.  We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures for air-pollution-control equipment in connection with obtaining or maintaining permits and approvals for sources of air emissions.  The Clean Water Act imposes substantial potential liability for the removal of pollutants discharged to waters of the United States and remediation of waters affected by such discharge.



Federal, state and regional initiatives to measure and regulate greenhouse gas emissions are under way.  We are monitoring federal and state legislation to assess the potential impact on our operations.  The EPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting rule, released in September 2009, requires greenhouse gas emissions reporting for affected facilities on an annual





basis and requires us to track the emission equivalents for the natural gas delivered by us to our distribution customers and emission equivalents for all NGLs delivered to customers of ONEOK Partners.  Our 2010 total reported emissions were less than 66.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents.  This total includes direct emissions from the combustion of fuel in our equipment, such as compressor engines and heaters, and carbon dioxide equivalents from NGL products and natural gas delivered to customers, as if all such fuel and NGL products were combusted and carbon dioxide injected directly into disposal wells.  The next required reporting period for 2011 greenhouse gas emissions will be due March 31, 2012.  Also, the EPA released a subpart to the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule that will require the reporting of vented and fugitive emissions of methane from our facilities.  The new requirements began in January 2011, with the first reporting of fugitive emissions due September 30, 2012.  We do not expect the cost to gather this emission data to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  In addition, Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane.  At this time, no rule or legislation has been enacted that assesses any costs, fees or expenses on any of these emissions.



In May 2010, the EPA finalized the “Tailoring Rule” that will regulate greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified facilities that meet certain criteria.  Affected facilities will be required to review best available control technology, conduct air-quality analysis, impact analysis and public reviews with respect to such emissions.  Since January 2011, the rule has been in the process of being phased in, and at current emission threshold levels, we believe it will have a minimal impact on our existing facilities.  The EPA has stated it will consider lowering the threshold levels over the next five years, which could increase the impact on our existing facilities; however, potential costs, fees or expenses associated with the potential adjustments are unknown.



In addition, the EPA issued a rule on air-quality standards, “National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines,” also known as RICE NESHAP, with a compliance date in 2013.  The rule will require capital expenditures over the next two years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment.  We do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



On July 28, 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule package that would change the air emission New Source Performance Standards and Maximum Achievable Control Technology requirements applicable to natural gas production, processing, transmission and underground storage.  The proposed rules would impact emission limits for specific equipment through the use of controls; however, potential costs associated with the proposed rules currently are unknown.



Superfund-The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment.  These persons include the owner or operator of a facility where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the facility.  Under CERCLA, these persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies.  In 2011, ONEOK Partners received notice from the EPA of potential liability for the U.S. Oil Recovery Superfund Site location in Harris County, Texas.  ONEOK Partners is named a potentially responsible party as a result of waste disposal at the now-abandoned site.  Neither we nor ONEOK Partners expect our respective current responsibilities under CERCLA, for this facility and any other, to have a material impact on our respective results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Chemical Site Security-The United States Department of Homeland Security (Homeland Security) released an interim rule in April 2007 that requires companies to provide reports on sites where certain chemicals, including many hydrocarbon products, are stored.  We completed the Homeland Security assessments, and our facilities subsequently were assigned one of four risk-based tiers ranging from high (Tier 1) to low (Tier 4) risk, or not tiered at all due to low risk.  To date, four of our facilities have been given a Tier 4 rating.  Facilities receiving a Tier 4 rating are required to complete Site Security Plans and possible physical security enhancements.  We do not expect the Site Security Plans and possible security enhancements cost to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Pipeline Security-Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration and the United States Department of Transportation have completed a review and inspection of our “critical facilities” and identified no material security issues.  Also, the Transportation Security Administration has released new pipeline security guidelines that include broader definitions for the determination of pipeline “critical facilities.”  We have reviewed our pipeline facilities according to the new guideline requirements and there have been no material changes required to date.



Environmental Footprint-Our environmental and climate change strategy focuses on taking steps to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment.  These strategies include:  (i) developing and maintaining an accurate greenhouse gas emissions inventory, according to current rules issued by the EPA; (ii) improving the efficiency of our various pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and natural gas liquids fractionation facilities; (iii) following developing technologies for emission control; and (iv) following developing technologies to capture carbon dioxide to keep it from reaching the atmosphere.





ONEOK Partners participates in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program to reduce voluntarily methane emissions.  We continue to focus on maintaining low rates of lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas through expanded implementation of best practices to limit the release of natural gas during pipeline and facility maintenance and operations.  Our most recent calculation of our annual lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas, for all of our business operations, is less than 1 percent of total throughput.



EMPLOYEES



We employed 4,795 people at January 31, 2012, including 694 people at Kansas Gas Service who are subject to collective bargaining contracts.  The following table sets forth our contracts with collective bargaining units at January 31, 2012:





UnionEmployeesContract ExpiresThe United Steelworkers388October 28, 2016International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)306June 30, 2014



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



All executive officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors, and each serves until such person resigns, is removed or is otherwise disqualified to serve, or until such officer’s successor is duly elected.  Our executive officers listed below include the officers who have been designated by our Board of Directors as our Section 16 executive officers.



Name and PositionAgeBusiness Experience in Past Five Years

John W. Gibson592012 to presentChairman and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer2011Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2011Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, ONEOK

2010 to 2011President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2010 to 2011Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners

2007 to 2009Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK

2007 to 2009Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners

2006 to presentMember of the Board of Directors, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Terry K. Spencer522012 to presentPresident, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

President2010 to presentMember of the Board of Directors, ONEOK Partners

2009 to 2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners

2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas Liquids, ONEOK Partners

Pierce H. Norton II522012 to presentExecutive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Executive Vice President and2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK

Chief Operating Officer2009 to 2011President, ONEOK Distribution Companies, ONEOK

2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas, ONEOK Partners

2006 to 2007President, Gathering and Processing, ONEOK Partners

Robert F. Martinovich542012 to presentExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer,ONEOK and ONEOKPartners

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer2011 to presentMember of the Board of Directors, ONEOK Partners

and Treasurer2011Senior Vice President, ChiefFinancial Officer and Treasurer,ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

2009 to 2011Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK

2007 to 2009President, Gathering and Processing, ONEOK Partners

2006 to 2007Group Vice President, EHS, Operations & Technical Services, DCP Midstream LLC

Stephen W. Lake482012 to presentSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary,ONEOK and ONEOKPartners

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and2011Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary,ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Assistant Secretary2008-2011Executive Vice President and General Counsel, McJunkin Red Man Corporation

1998-2008Partner, GableGotwals

Derek S. Reiners402009 to presentSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, ONEOK and ONEOK Partners

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer2004 to 2009Partner, Grant Thornton LLP



No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.



INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE



We make available, free of charge, on our website (www.oneok.com) copies of our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and reports of holdings of our securities filed by our officers and directors under Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.  Copies of our Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Director Independence Guidelines are also available on our website, and we will provide copies of these documents upon request.  Our website and any contents thereof are not incorporated by reference into this report.



We also make available on our website the Interactive Data Files required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.



