ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL



We are a diversified energy company and successor to the company founded in 1906 known as Oklahoma Natural Gas Company.  Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol “OKE.”  We are the sole general partner and own 42.8 percent of ONEOK Partners, L.P. (NYSE: OKS), one of the largest publicly traded master limited partnerships.  ONEOK Partners is a leader in the gathering, processing, storage and transportation of natural gas in the United States.  In addition, ONEOK Partners owns one of the nation’s premier natural gas liquids systems, connecting NGL supply in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions with key market centers.  We are the largest natural gas distributor in Oklahoma and Kansas and the third largest natural gas distributor in Texas, prov
iding service as a regulated public utility to wholesale and retail customers.  Our largest distribution markets are Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Oklahoma; Kansas City, Wichita and Topeka, Kansas; and Austin and El Paso, Texas.  Our energy services business is engaged in providing premium natural gas marketing services to its customers across the United States.



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



We report operations in the following business segments:

·ONEOK Partners;

·Distribution; and

·Energy Services.



Business Strategy



Our primary business strategy is to deliver consistent growth and sustainable earnings, while focusing on safe, reliable, environmentally responsible and legally compliant operations for our customers, employees, contractors and the public through the following:

·Operate in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible manner- environmental, safety and health issues continue to be a primary focus for us; our emphasis on environmental, safety and health initiatives has produced improvements in the key indicators we track;

·Increase distributable cash flow at our ONEOK Partners segment through a combination of internal growth projects and strategic acquisitions- during 2010 ONEOK Partners’ cash distributions increased by 1 cent per unit each quarter, approximately a 3-percent increase compared with 2009; ONEOK Partners has added to its fee-based earnings with the completion of its more than $2.0 billion of capital projects in 2009, which generate predominantly fee-based earnings; ONEOK Partners has announced in 2010 and early 2011 an additional $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion in new capital projects in the Bakken Shale, the Cana-Woodford Shale and the Granite Wash areas, which, when completed, ONEOK Partners anticipates will provide additional earnings and cash flows;

·Increase operating income in our Distribution segment- our Distribution segment benefited from rate strategies including a performance-based rate mechanism in Oklahoma, capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas and cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas jurisdictions that address investments in rate base and changes in expense;  our Distribution segment’s operating efficiencies include investments in automated meters in Oklahoma, upgrades to service-order scheduling and dispatch systems and a driver-monitoring system;

·Continue our focus on our key markets in our Energy Services segment- our Energy Services segment continues its focus on providing customer-specific premium services and continues to realign its contracted storage and transportation capacity with its customers’ premium-service requirements;

·Execute strategic acquisitions that provide long-term value- we remain a disciplined buyer of assets and continue to evaluate assets that come to market.  We did not consummate any acquisitions in 2010;

·Manage our balance sheet to maintain strong credit ratings- our balance sheet remains strong, ending 2010 with a capitalization structure of 40-percent debt and 60-percent equity, excluding the debt of ONEOK Partners; we will seek to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and

·Attract, develop and retain employees to support strategy execution- we continue to execute on our recruiting strategy that targets colleges, universities and vocational-technical schools in our operating areas; we also continue development efforts with our current employees.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Our 2010 operating results include the benefits from a full year of operation of more than $2.0 billion in growth projects completed by ONEOK Partners in 2009, reflecting increases in NGL volumes gathered, fractionated and sold, natural gas





transportation capacity contracted and natural gas volumes processed in the Williston Basin.  ONEOK Partners expects continued development of the reserves in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin and in the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas in Oklahoma and Texas as drilling activities increase in these areas.   Additionally, we benefited from the new rate design that was implemented in Oklahoma in our Distribution segment.  Our Energy Services segment continues to align its contracted natural gas transportation and storage capacity with the needs of its premium-services customers to reduce annual earnings volatility.



ONEOK Partners has announced approximately $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion in growth projects, primarily in the Williston Basin in North Dakota and the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas in Oklahoma and Texas that will enable it to meet the rapidly growing needs of crude oil and natural gas producers as they increase their drilling activities.



Drilling rig counts in Dunn, McKenzie and Williams counties in North Dakota have increased dramatically since the beginning of 2010.  The development of the reserves in the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin are being driven primarily by crude oil economics, with the associated natural gas production having a high NGL content.  Current natural gas processing and natural gas liquids infrastructure in the Williston Basin is being expanded to accommodate the additional production from the increased development activities.  ONEOK Partners has announced plans to invest $1.5 to $1.8 billion in the Williston Basin in North Dakota.



In addition to the growth projects in the Williston Basin, ONEOK Partners has announced plans to invest approximately $270 million to $330 million in its existing Mid-Continent infrastructure, primarily in the Cana-Woodford Shale and Granite Wash areas.  The expansions and upgrades will increase its ability to accommodate the growing natural gas and NGL supply from producers and natural gas processors as drilling activities increase in these areas.  These investments will expand its ability to transport raw NGLs from these supply areas to fractionation facilities in Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas and distribute NGL products to the Mid-Continent, Gulf Coast and upper Midwest market centers.  A portion of these investments will also allow ONEOK Partners to increase the utilization of its natural gas processing capa
city in Oklahoma.



During 2010, we paid cash dividends of $1.82 per share, an increase of approximately 11.0 percent from the $1.64 per share paid during 2009.  In January 2011, we declared a dividend of $0.52 per share ($2.08 per share on an annualized basis), an increase of approximately 18.2 percent from the $0.44 declared in January 2010.



During 2010, ONEOK Partners paid cash distributions to its limited partners totaling $4.46 per unit, an increase of approximately 3.0 percent from the $4.33 per unit paid during 2009.  In January 2011, a cash distribution to ONEOK Partners’ limited partners of $1.14 per unit ($4.56 per unit on an annualized basis) was declared, an increase of approximately 3.6 percent from the $1.10 declared in January 2010.



During 2010, we relied primarily on operating cash flow, commercial paper and distributions from ONEOK Partners to fund our liquidity and capital requirements.  ONEOK Partners utilized available cash, its ONEOK Partners Credit Agreement, commercial paper and the proceeds from the sale of a 49-percent ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company to fund its liquidity needs, repay $250 million of its maturing senior notes and fund its capital expenditures.  Additionally, ONEOK Partners accessed the public equity markets in February 2010, generating net proceeds of approximately $322.7 million for its long-term financing needs.



In January 2011, ONEOK Partners completed an underwritten public offering of senior notes generating net proceeds of approximately $1.28 billion.  ONEOK’s and ONEOK Partners’ ability to continue to access capital markets for debt and equity financing under reasonable terms depends on market conditions and their respective financial condition and credit ratings.  We anticipate that our cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources and distributions from ONEOK Partners will enable us to maintain our current level of operations, our planned operations and fund our three-year, $750 million stock repurchase program.  ONEOK Partners anticipates that its cash flow generated from operations, existing capital resources and ability to obtain financing will enable it to maintain its current
 level of operations and its planned operations, as well as fund its capital expenditures.



See Item 7,  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, for more information on our growth projects, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources.



SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION



Operating Income, Customers and Total Assets- See Note Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for disclosure by segment of our operating income and total assets and for a discussion of revenues from external customers.





NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



ONEOK Partners



Ownership- We own approximately 42.4 million common and Class B limited partner units, and the entire 2-percent general partner interest, which, together, represents a 42.8-percent ownership interest in ONEOK Partners.  We receive distributions from ONEOK Partners on our common and Class B units and our 2-percent general partner interest, which includes our incentive distribution rights.  See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for discussion of our incentive distribution rights.



Description of Business



Natural gas gathering and processing business- ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business is engaged in the gathering and processing of natural gas produced from crude oil and natural gas wells, primarily in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions, which include the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma that contains the NGL-rich Cana-Woodford Shale formation, Hugoton and Central Kansas Uplift Basins of Kansas, the Williston Basin of Montana and North Dakota that includes the oil-producing, NGL-rich Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations, and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming.  Through gathering systems, natural gas is aggregated and treated or processed for removal of water vapor, solids and other contaminants, and to extract NGLs in order to 
provide marketable natural gas, commonly referred to as residue gas.  When the NGLs are separated from the unprocessed natural gas at the processing plants, the NGLs are generally in the form of a mixed, unfractionated NGL stream.  In the Powder River Basin, the natural gas that ONEOK Partners gathers is coal-bed methane, or dry natural gas, that does not require processing or NGL extraction, in order to be marketable; dry natural gas is gathered, compressed and delivered into a downstream pipeline or marketed for a fee.



Revenue from the natural gas gathering and processing business is derived primarily from the following three types of contracts:

·Percent of proceeds - ONEOK Partners retains a percentage of the NGLs and/or a percentage of the residue gas as payment for gathering, treating, compressing and processing the producer’s natural gas.  This type of contract represented approximately 35 percent and 32 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2010 and 2009, respectively.

·Fee - ONEOK Partners is paid a fee for the services it provides based on Btus gathered, treated, compressed and/or processed.  This type of contract represented approximately 61 percent and 63 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2010 and 2009, respectively.

·Keep-whole - ONEOK Partners extracts NGLs from unprocessed natural gas and returns to the producer volumes of residue gas containing the same amount of Btus as the unprocessed natural gas that was originally delivered.  This type of contract represented approximately 4 percent and 5 percent of gathering and processing contracted volumes for 2010 and 2009, respectively, with approximately 85 percent and 84 percent of that contracted volume containing language that effectively converts these contracts into fee contracts when the gross processing spread is negative.



Natural gas pipelines business- ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipeline business operates interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines, natural gas storage facilities and non-processable natural gas gathering facilities.  ONEOK Partners also provides natural gas transportation and storage services in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.  ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated interstate assets transport natural gas through pipelines that access supply from Canada and from the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas pipeline assets are located in Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas, and have access to major natural gas producing areas in those states.
60; ONEOK Partners owns underground natural gas storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas.



ONEOK Partners’ revenues from its natural gas pipelines are derived typically from fee-based services provided to its customers.  ONEOK Partners’ revenues from its natural gas pipelines are generated under the following types of fee-based contracts:

·Firm service - Customers can reserve a fixed quantity of pipeline or storage capacity for the terms of their contracts.  Under this type of contract, the customer pays a fixed fee for a specified quantity regardless of their actual usage and is generally guaranteed access to the capacity they reserve; and

·Interruptible service - Customers may utilize available capacity after firm-service requests are satisfied or on an as-available basis.  Under the interruptible service contract, the customer is not guaranteed use of our pipelines and storage facilities unless excess capacity is available.





Natural gas liquids business- ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business gathers, treats, fractionates and transports NGLs and distributes and stores NGL products.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids gathering pipelines deliver unfractionated NGLs gathered from natural gas processing plants located in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas and the Rocky Mountain region to fractionators it owns in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, as well as to third-party fractionators and third-party pipelines.  The NGLs are then separated through the fractionation process into the individual NGL products that realize the greater economic value of the NGL components.  The individual NGL products are then stored or distributed to petrochemical manufacturers, heating-
fuel users, refineries and propane distributors through ONEOK Partners’ FERC-regulated distribution pipelines that move NGL products from Oklahoma and Kansas to the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast NGL market centers, as well as the Midwest markets near Chicago, Illinois.



Revenue for the natural gas liquids business is derived primarily from fee-based services provided to ONEOK Partners’ customers and physical optimization of its assets.  The sources of revenue are categorized as follows:

·Exchange services - ONEOK Partners gathers and transports unfractionated NGLs to owned and third-party fractionators and third-party pipelines, where they are separated into marketable NGL products and redelivered to a market center for a fee;

·Optimization and marketing - ONEOK Partners uses its asset base, portfolio of contracts and market knowledge to capture location and seasonal price differentials through transactions that optimize the flow and value of its NGL products between the major market centers in the Mid-Continent and the Gulf Coast, as well as markets near Chicago, Illinois;

·Isomerization - ONEOK Partners converts normal butane to the more valuable iso-butane used by the refining industry to increase the octane of motor gasoline;

·Storage services - ONEOK Partners stores NGLs for a fee; and

·Transportation - ONEOK Partners transports NGLs under its FERC-regulated tariffs.



The main factors that affect ONEOK Partners’ margins from its natural gas liquids business are:

·NGL transportation and fractionation volumes and associated fees;

·natural gas processing, gathering, transportation and storage volumes and associated fees;

·weather impacts on demand and operations;

·the differences between the Mid-Continent, Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain natural gas prices, the crude oil and the daily average prices for its NGL products sold;

·the relative value of ethane to natural gas; and

·location and seasonal natural gas and NGL product price differentials.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply- ONEOK Partners’ business is affected by the economy, commodity price volatility and weather.  The strength of the economy has a direct relationship on manufacturing and industrial companies’ demand for natural gas and NGL products.  Volatility in the commodity markets impacts the decisions of ONEOK Partners’ producers and customers related to the output from natural gas wells, storage activity for natural gas and natural gas liquids, and demand for the various NGL products.  In addition, its natural gas liquids pipelines and fractionation facilities are affected by operational or market-driven changes in the output of the natura
l gas processing plants to which they are connected.  Natural gas and NGL output from gas processing plants may increase or decrease, affecting the quality of natural gas and volume of NGLs transported through the systems, as a result of the gross processing spread, which is the difference between the relative Btu value of the composite price of NGLs and the Btu value of natural gas, primarily ethane and natural gas.  In addition, volumes delivered through the system may increase or decrease as a result of the relative NGL price fluctuations between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast NGL market centers.  Natural gas transportation throughput fluctuates due to rainfall that impacts irrigation demand, warmer temperatures that affect power generation demand and cooler temperatures that affect heating demand.



Natural gas and NGL supply is affected by drilling rig availability, operating capability and producer drilling activity, which is sensitive to commodity prices, exploration success, access to capital and regulations.  Higher crude oil prices and advances in horizontal drilling and completion technology are having a positive impact on drilling activity in the shale areas, providing an offset to the less favorable supply development in the non-shale areas.



Additionally, significant factors that can impact the supply of Canadian natural gas transported by certain ONEOK Partners’ pipelines are the Canadian natural gas available for export, Canadian storage capacity and United States demand for Canadian natural gas.



Demand-Demand for natural gas gathering and processing services is typically aligned with the production of natural gas.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plant operations can be adjusted to respond to market conditions, such as demand





for ethane.  By changing operating parameters at certain plants, ONEOK Partners can reduce, to some extent, the amount of ethane and propane recovered if prices or processing margins are unfavorable.



Demand for natural gas pipeline transportation service and natural gas storage is related directly to demand for natural gas in the markets that the natural gas pipelines and storage facilities serve, and is affected by weather, the economy and natural gas price volatility.  Demand for services can also be impacted as coal-fired electric generators consider natural gas as an alternative fuel.  The effect of weather on ONEOK Partners’ natural gas pipelines operations is discussed below under “Seasonality.”  The strength of the economy impacts directly manufacturing and industrial companies that consume natural gas.  Commodity price volatility can influence customers’ decisions related to the usage of natural gas versus alternative fuels and natural gas storage injection and wi
thdrawal activity.



Demand for NGLs and the ability of natural gas processors to sustain successful and economical operations impacts the volume of unfractionated NGLs produced by natural gas processing plants, thereby affecting the demand for natural gas liquids gathering, fractionation, storage and distribution services.  Natural gas and propane are subject to weather-related seasonal demand.  Other NGL products are affected by economic conditions and the demand associated with the various industries that utilize the commodity, such as butanes and natural gasoline, which are used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denaturant for ethanol and diluents for crude oil.  Ethane/propane mix, propane, normal butane and natural gasoline are used by the petrochemical industry to produce chemical products, such a
s plastic, rubber and synthetic fiber.



Commodity Prices- Crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices can be volatile due to market conditions.  Commodity prices can also be impacted by demand for products by the petrochemical industry and other consumers, storage injection and withdrawal rates and available storage capacity.  ONEOK Partners is exposed to commodity price risk in its natural gas gathering and processing business, as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for services primarily on percent-of-proceeds contracts and in its natural gas liquids business from the NGLs it purchases and sells.  ONEOK Partners is also exposed to market risk associated with the price differentials between receipt and delivery points along its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, also
 known as basis differentials.  Fluctuations in basis differentials impact the rates its natural gas pipelines’ customers with competitive alternatives are willing to pay and the optimization opportunities for its natural gas liquids business.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and NGL storage revenues are impacted by the differential between the forward price of natural gas and NGLs and the price of natural gas and NGLs on the spot market.  Additionally, fluctuations in the relative price differential between natural gas, NGLs and individual NGL products impacts ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids exchange services and transportation revenues and, to a lesser extent, margins on its natural gas gathering and processing keep-whole contracts.



Seasonality- Our ONEOK Partners segment’s products are subject to weather-related seasonal demand.  Cold temperatures typically increase demand for natural gas and propane, which are used to heat homes and businesses.  Warm temperatures typically drive demand for natural gas used for gas-fired electric generation needed to meet the electricity-generation demand required to cool residential and commercial properties.  Precipitation levels can impact the demand for natural gas that is used to fuel irrigation activity in the Mid-Continent region and demand for propane used to fuel crop-drying activity.  Demand for butane and natural gasoline, which are primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor fuel, denat
urant for ethanol and diluents for crude oil, may also be subject to some variability as automotive travel increases and as seasonal gasoline formulation standards are implemented.  During periods of peak demand for a certain commodity, prices for that product typically increase, which may influence processing and fractionation decisions.



Competition- ONEOK Partners’ natural gas and natural gas liquids businesses compete directly with other companies for natural gas and NGL supplies, markets and services.  Competition for natural gas transportation services continues to increase as new infrastructure projects are completed and the FERC and state regulatory bodies continue to encourage additional competition in the natural gas markets.  Competition is based primarily on fees for services, quality of services provided, current and forward natural gas and NGL prices and proximity to supply areas and markets.  ONEOK Partners believes that its assets enable it to compete effectively.



ONEOK Partners’ natural gas gathering and processing business competes for natural gas supplies with independent exploration and production companies that have gathering and processing assets, pipeline companies and their affiliated marketing companies, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, and marketers in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions.  ONEOK Partners’ natural gas liquids business competes with other fractionators, storage providers, gatherers and transporters for NGL supplies in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.  The factors that typically affect ONEOK Partners’ ability to compete for natural gas and NGL supplies are:

·fees charged under its contracts;

·pressures maintained on its gathering systems;





·location of its assets relative to those of its competitors;

·location of its assets relative to drilling activity;

·efficiency and reliability of its operations; and

·receipt and delivery capabilities that exist in each system, plant, fractionator and storage location.



ONEOK Partners is responding to these industry conditions by making capital investments to access new supplies; increasing gathering, fractionation, storage and transportation capacity; increasing storage, withdrawal and injection capabilities; and improving natural gas processing efficiency and reduce operating costs.  ONEOK Partners is also evaluating asset consolidation opportunities to maximize earnings and renegotiating low-margin contracts.  The principal goal of the contract renegotiation effort is to improve margins and reduce risk.



Government Regulation- The FERC has traditionally maintained that a natural gas processing plant is not a facility for the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and, therefore, is not subject to jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act.  Although the FERC has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing operations or facilities, ONEOK Partners’ natural gas processing plants are primarily involved in removing NGLs and, therefore, ONEOK Partners believes, its natural gas processing plants are exempt from FERC jurisdiction.  The Natural Gas Act also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC.  ONEOK Partners believes its nat
ural gas gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the FERC for non-jurisdictional gathering facility status.  However, ONEOK Partners is subject to newly adopted FERC regulations that require it to publicly post certain natural gas flow information on ONEOK Partners’ website.  Interstate transmission facilities remain subject to FERC jurisdiction.  The FERC has historically distinguished between these two types of facilities, either interstate or intrastate, on a fact-specific basis.  ONEOK Partners also transports residue gas from its natural gas processing plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with Section 311(a) of the Natural Gas Policy Act.



Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota also have statutes regulating, in various degrees, the gathering of natural gas in those states.  In each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency.



ONEOK Partners’ interstate natural gas pipelines are regulated under the Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act, which give the FERC jurisdiction to regulate virtually all aspects of the pipeline activities.  ONEOK Partners’ intrastate natural gas transportation assets in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are regulated by the OCC, KCC and RRC, respectively.  ONEOK Partners has flexibility in establishing natural gas transportation rates with customers.  However, there are maximum rates that ONEOK Partners can charge its customers in Oklahoma and Kansas.



ONEOK Partners’ proprietary natural gas liquids gathering pipelines, fractionation and storage facilities in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas are not regulated by the FERC or the states’ respective corporation commissions.  ONEOK Partners’ remaining natural gas liquids gathering and distribution pipelines are interstate pipelines regulated by the FERC.  ONEOK Partners transports unfractionated NGLs and NGL products pursuant to filed tariffs.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.



Unconsolidated Affiliates- Our ONEOK Partners segment has investments in unconsolidated affiliates which include Northern Border Pipeline, Overland Pass Pipeline Company, three partnerships that operate natural gas gathering systems located primarily in the Powder River of Wyoming and other investments.  Northern Border Pipeline is a leading transporter of natural gas imported from Canada into the United States.  Overland Pass Pipeline Company operates an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline system that transports natural gas liquids from the Rocky Mountain region to the Mid-Continent NGL market center.



See Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of ONEOK Partners’ unconsolidated affiliates.



Distribution



Business Strategy-The strategies for our Distribution segment include:

·minimizing the gap between actual and allowed returns through sustainable cost reductions and innovative rate strategies that provide faster cost recovery for shareholders while simultaneously stabilizing rates for consumers;

·growing rate base through investment in our system while emphasizing safety and efficiency; and

·providing customer programs designed to reduce volumetric sensitivity and create value for our customers.





Our regulatory strategy incorporates rate features that reduce earnings lag, protect margin and mitigate risks.  These strategies include performance-based rate mechanisms in Oklahoma and capital-recovery mechanisms in Kansas and portions of Texas.  In addition, we also have cost-of-service adjustments in certain Texas markets that address investments in rate base and changes in expense.  Margin protection strategies include increased fixed-customer charges in all three states, as well as weather normalization mechanisms.  Risk mitigation strategies include fuel-related bad-debt recovery mechanisms in Oklahoma, Kansas and portions of Texas.



Description of Business- Our Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to more than 2 million customers in Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas through Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service.  We serve residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers in all three states.  In addition, our distribution companies serve wholesale and public authority customers.



Our operating results are affected primarily by the number of customers, usage and the ability to collect delivery rates that provide a reasonable rate of return on our investment and recovery of our cost of service.  Natural gas costs are passed through to our customers based on the actual cost of natural gas purchased by the respective distribution companies and related expenses.  Substantial fluctuations in natural gas sales can occur from year to year without materially or adversely impacting our net margin, since the fluctuations in natural gas costs affect natural gas sales and cost of gas by an equivalent amount.  Higher natural gas costs may cause customers to conserve or use alternative energy sources.  Higher natural gas costs may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, 
resulting in higher bad-debt expense.  Recovery of the fuel-related portion of bad debts is allowed in all three states.



Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service distribute natural gas as public utilities to approximately 82 percent, 67 percent and 13 percent of the distribution markets for Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas, respectively.  Natural gas sold to residential and commercial customers accounts for approximately 80 and 19 percent of our natural gas sales, respectively, in Oklahoma; 75 and 19 percent of our natural gas sales, respectively, in Kansas; and 70 and 22 percent of our natural gas sales, respectively, in Texas.



In the first quarter of 2010, responsibility for our retail marketing business was transferred to our Distribution segment from our Energy Services segment.  As a result, we have revised our reportable segments to reflect this change in responsibility.  Our retail marketing business provides physical marketing and supply services.  We manage the commodity price and volumetric risk in our retail operations through a variety of risk management and hedging activities.  Our retail marketing business serves municipal, small commercial, industrial and agricultural customers in the Mid-Continent region, residential and agricultural customers in Nebraska and residential customers in Wyoming.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply- Our LDCs purchased 186 Bcf and 169 Bcf of natural gas supply in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Our natural gas supply portfolio consists of long-term, seasonal and short-term contracts from a diverse group of suppliers.  These contracts are awarded through competitive-bidding processes to ensure reliable and competitively priced natural gas supply.  Our Distribution segment’s natural gas supply is purchased from a combination of natural gas processing plants, natural gas marketers and natural gas producers.



We are responsible for acquiring sufficient natural gas supplies, interstate and intrastate pipeline capacity and storage capacity to meet customer requirements.  As such, we must contract for both reliable and adequate supplies and delivery capacity to our distribution system, while considering: (i)the dynamics of the interstate and intrastate pipeline and storage capacity market; (ii) our peaking facilities and storage and contractual commitments; and (iii)the demand characteristics of our customer base.



An objective of our supply-sourcing strategy is to diversify our supply among multiple production areas and suppliers.  This strategy is designed to protect receipt of supply from being curtailed by physical interruption, possible financial difficulties of a single supplier, natural disasters and other unforeseen force majeure events.



We do not anticipate problems with securing natural gas supply to satisfy customer demand; however, if supply shortages were to occur, each of our LDCs has curtailment tariff provisions in place that provide for: (i) reducing or discontinuing natural gas service to large industrial users; and (ii) requesting that residential and commercial customers reduce their natural gas requirements to an amount essential for public health and safety.  In addition, during times of critical supply problems, curtailments of deliveries to customers with firm contracts may be made in accordance with guidelines established by appropriate federal, state and local regulatory agencies.



Natural gas supply requirements are affected by changes in the natural gas consumption pattern of our customers that are driven by factors other than weather.  Economic conditions impact usage of commercial and industrial customers.  Natural





gas usage per residential customer may decline as customers change their consumption patterns in response to: (i) more volatile and higher natural gas prices, as discussed above; (ii)customers’ improving the energy efficiency of existing homes by replacing doors and windows and adding insulation, along with retrofitting natural gas appliances with more efficient appliances; (iii) more energy-efficient construction; and (iv) fuel switching.  In each jurisdiction in which we operate, changes in customer usage profiles have been reflected in recent rate case proceedings, where rates have been adjusted to reflect current customer usage.



In managing our natural gas supply portfolios, we partially mitigate price volatility using a combination of financial derivatives and fixed price contracts.  Our regulatory authorities in each of the three states have approved natural gas hedging programs that have been in place over the last few years.  We do not utilize financial derivatives for speculative purposes nor do we have trading operations associated with our Distribution segment.  In addition, we utilized 39.3 Bcf of contracted storage capacity in 2010, which allows gas to be purchased during the off-peak season and stored for use in the winter periods.



Demand- Our retail business’ demand for natural gas is driven primarily by industrial and small commercial process requirements, heating requirements for municipalities and residential users, and agricultural requirements for irrigation.  Demand for the retail business is impacted significantly by temperature and precipitation variations.



See discussion below under “Seasonality” and “Competition” for factors affecting LDC demand.



Seasonality- Natural gas sales to residential and commercial customers are seasonal, as a substantial portion of their natural gas is used for heating.  Accordingly, the volume of natural gas sales is higher normally during the months of November through March than in other months of the year.  The impact on margins for our LDCs resulting from weather that is above or below normal is offset substantially through weather-normalization adjustments (WNA).  These adjustments are now approved by the regulatory authorities for our Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas service territories.  WNA allows us to increase customer billing to offset lower gas usage when weather is warmer than normal and decrease customer billing to offset higher gas usage whe
n weather is colder than normal.



Competition-We encounter competition based on customers’ preference for natural gas, compared with other energy products, and the comparative prices of those other energy products.  The most significant product competition occurs between natural gas and electricity in the residential and small commercial markets.  We compete for space and water heating, cooking, clothes drying and other general energy needs.  Customers and builders typically make the decision on the type of equipment to install at initial installation and use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment.  The markets in our service territori
es have become increasingly competitive.  Changes in the competitive position of natural gas relative to electricity and other energy products have the potential to cause a decline in consumption or in the number of future natural gas customers.



However, recent studies have demonstrated that assessing energy efficiency in terms of full fuel cycle analysis highlights the high overall efficiency of natural gas as a preferred fuel in residential and commercial uses, compared with electricity.  These studies may have a positive impact on the promotion of natural gas for these primary uses, as national energy and environmental policies and standards are reshaped.



We believe that we must maintain a competitive advantage in order to retain our customers, and, accordingly, we focus on providing safe, reliable and efficient service and controlling costs.  Our Distribution segment is subject to competition from other pipelines for our existing industrial load.  Oklahoma Natural Gas, Kansas Gas Service and Texas Gas Service compete for service to large industrial and commercial customers, and competition has and may continue to impact margins.



Under our transportation tariffs, qualifying industrial and commercial customers are able to purchase their natural gas commodity from the supplier of their choice and have us transport it for a fee.  A portion of transportation services provided is at negotiated rates that are generally below the maximum approved transportation tariff rates.  Reduced rate transportation service may be negotiated when a competitive pipeline is in proximity or another viable energy option is available.  Increased competition could potentially lower these rates.



Government Regulation- Rates charged by LDCs in our Distribution segment for natural gas services are established by the OCC for Oklahoma Natural Gas and by the KCC for Kansas Gas Service.  Texas Gas Service is subject to regulatory oversight by the various municipalities that it serves, which have primary jurisdiction in their respective areas.  Rates in unincorporated areas of Texas and all appellate matters are subject to regulatory oversight by the RRC.  Natural gas purchase costs for our LDCs are included in the Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clause rate that is billed to customers.  Our LDCs do not make a profit on the cost of natural gas.  Other changes in costs must be recovered through periodic rate adjustments





approved by the OCC, KCC, RRC and various municipalities in Texas.  See pages 49-50 for a detailed description of our various regulatory initiatives.



See further discussion in the “Environmental and Safety Matters” section.



Energy Services



Business Strategy- Our Energy Services segment utilizes our network of contracted natural gas supply and contracted transportation and storage assets to provide premium services to our customers.  The asset positions afford us the flexibility to develop innovative, customer-specific demand delivery services for those we serve, at a competitive cost.  We also continue to align our strategic supply portfolio to complement our contracted asset position.  With these services and a focus on customer relationships, we expect to retain existing customers and attract new customers that generate recurring margins.



We follow a strategy of optimizing our storage and cross-regional transportation capacity through the application of market knowledge and effective risk management.  We maximize value by actively hedging the risks associated with seasonal and locational price differentials that are inherent to storage and transportation contracts.  At the same time, we capitalize on opportunities created by market volatility, weather-related events, supply-demand imbalances and market inefficiencies, which allow us to capture additional margin.  Using market information, we manage these asset-based positions and seek to provide incremental margin in our trading portfolio.



It is our intention to minimize the mark-to-market earnings impact that our forward hedges have on current period earnings. When possible, we implement effective hedging strategies using derivative instruments that qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.



Our Energy Services segment requires working capital to purchase natural gas inventory, to reserve transportation and storage capacity and to meet cash collateral requirements associated with our risk management activities.  Our inventory purchases and hedging strategies are implemented with consideration given to ONEOK’s overall working capital requirements and liquidity.  Restrictions on our access to working capital may impact our inventory purchases and risk management activities, which could impact our results.  Our working capital costs would be impacted by a change in ONEOK’s current investment-grade credit rating.  See discussion under “Credit Risk” of Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information.



Description of Business- Our Energy Services segment’s primary focus is to create value for our customers by delivering physical natural gas products and risk-management services through our network of contracted natural gas transportation and storage capacity and natural gas supply.  This contracted storage and transportation capacity connects the major supply and demand centers throughout the United States and into Canada.  Our customers are primarily LDCs, electric utilities, and commercial and industrial end-users.  Our customers’ natural gas needs vary with seasonal changes in weather and are therefore somewhat unpredictable.



To ensure natural gas is available when our customers need it, we offer premium services and products that satisfy our customers’ swing and peaking natural gas commodity requirements on a year-round basis.  We also provide no-notice service, weather-related protection and other custom solutions based on our customers’ specific needs.  Our storage and transportation assets enable us to provide these services and provide us with opportunities to optimize our contracted assets through our application of market knowledge and risk-management skills.



We actively manage the commodity price and volatility risks associated with providing energy risk management services to our customers by executing derivative instruments in accordance with the parameters established in our commodity risk management policy.  The derivative instruments consist of over-the-counter transactions such as forward, swap and option contracts, and NYMEX futures and option contracts.



We utilize our experience to optimize the value of our contracted assets and use our risk management and marketing capabilities to both manage risk and generate additional margins.  We apply a combination of cash flow and fair value hedge accounting when implementing hedging strategies that take advantage of favorable market conditions.  See Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information.  Additionally, certain non-trading transactions, which are economic hedges of our accrual transactions, such as our storage and transportation contracts, will not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  These economic hedges receive mark-to-market accounting treatment, as they are derivative contracts and are not designated as part of a hedge relationship.
  As a result, the underlying risk being hedged receives accrual accounting treatment, while we use mark-to-market accounting treatment for the economic hedges.  We cannot predict the earnings fluctuations from mark-to-market accounting, and the impact on earnings could be material.





Our working capital requirements related to our inventory in storage were as high as $284.3 million during 2010 and had decreased to $256.9 million by December 31, 2010.  In addition, margin requirements can result in increased working capital requirements.  During 2010, the amount we were required to post with counterparties to meet our margin requirements ranged from $0.7 million to $35.5 million, and the amount posted for our benefit by our counterparties ranged from $32.1 million to $115.2 million.



Our Energy Services segment conducts business with our ONEOK Partners and Distribution segments.  These services are provided under agreements with market-based terms.  Additionally, business with our LDCs is awarded through a competitive-bidding process. Through our wholesale marketing and risk management capabilities, we are a full-service supply provider to our Distribution segment’s retail marketing operations.  We manage the commodity price and volumetric risk in these operations through a variety of risk management and hedging activities.



Market Conditions and Seasonality-Supply- Our Energy Services segment maintains a natural gas supply portfolio consisting of various term-length contracted supply in all of the major producing regions, including the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast.  During periods of high natural gas demand, we utilize storage capacity that allows us to supplement natural gas supply volumes to meet our peak day demand obligations or market needs.



Demand- Demand under our swing and peaking natural gas requirements contracts in our wholesale operation is usually driven by the extent to which temperatures vary from normal levels.  A significant portion of this business is contracted during the winter period of November through March.



Seasonality-Due to the seasonality of natural gas consumption, storage withdrawals and demand for our products and services, earnings are higher normally during the winter months than the summer months.  Natural gas sales volumes are higher typically in the winter heating months than in the summer months, reflecting increased demand due to greater heating requirements and, typically, higher natural gas prices.  During periods of high natural gas demand, we utilize storage and transportation capacity that allows us to supplement natural gas supply volumes to meet our premium-services obligations or market needs.



Competition-Market conditions and uncertainties associated with the implementation of financial reform continue to affect liquidity in the financial derivatives market, particularly for basis swaps, which make it difficult to implement forward hedges around our transportation and storage positions.  In response to a competitive marketing environment, our strategy is to concentrate our efforts on providing reliable service during peak demand periods and capturing opportunities created by short-term pricing volatility.  We can compete effectively in the market by utilizing our contracted storage and transportation assets.  We continue to focus on building and strengthening supplier and cust
omer relationships to execute our strategy and increase our market presence.



Government Regulation- Our Energy Services segment purchases natural gas for resale at negotiated rates in interstate commerce.  As such, it has been granted by FERC an automatic blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing such sales.  This is a limited certificate that does not subject our Energy Services segment to any other regulation of FERC under its Natural Gas Act jurisdiction.  Holders of blanket marketing certificates are subject to certain reporting and document retention requirements.



Other



Through ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., and ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C., we own a parking garage and an office building (ONEOK Plaza) in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our headquarters are located.  ONEOK Leasing Company, L.L.C., leases excess office space to others and operates our headquarters office building.  ONEOK Parking Company, L.L.C. owns and operates a parking garage adjacent to our headquarters.



FINANCIAL MARKETS LEGISLATION



In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was enacted, representing a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for regulation of United States financial markets.  Various regulatory agencies, including the SEC and the CFTC, have proposed regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and are currently seeking comments on the proposals.  We expect additional proposed regulations as the remaining provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented.  Until the final regulations are established, we are unable to ascertain how we may be affected.  Based on our assessment of the proposed regulations issued to date, we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our busi
ness, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the costs of doing so may increase as a result of the new legislation.  We may also incur





additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record-keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations.



ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY MATTERS



Additional information about our environmental matters is included in Note P of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.



Pipeline Safety- We are subject to Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration regulations, including integrity-management regulations.  The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 requires pipeline companies to perform integrity assessments on pipeline segments that pass through densely populated areas or near specifically designated high-consequence areas.  Currently, Congress is reauthorizing existing Pipeline Safety legislation, and there are also a number of new bills addressing pipeline safety being considered.  We are monitoring activity concerning the reauthorization and proposed new legislation, as well as potential changes in the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s regulations, to assess the potential impa
ct on our operations.  At this time, no revised or new legislation has been enacted, and potential cost, fees or expenses associated with changes or new legislation are unknown.  We cannot provide assurance that existing pipeline safety regulations will not be revised or interpreted in a different manner or that new regulations will not be adopted that could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions.



Air and Water Emissions- The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into the air and water in the United States.  Under the Clean Air Act, a federally enforceable operating permit is required for sources of significant air emissions.  We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures for air-pollution-control equipment in connection with obtaining or maintaining permits and approvals for sources of air emissions.  The Clean Water Act imposes substantial potential liability for the removal of pollutants discharged to waters of the United States and remediation of waters affected by such discharge.





In May 2010, the EPA finalized the “Tailoring Rule” that will regulate greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified facilities that meet certain criteria.  Affected facilities will be required to review best available control technology, conduct air-quality analysis, impact analysis and public reviews with respect to such emissions.  The rule was phased in beginning January 2011 and, at current emission threshold levels, will have a minimal impact on our existing facilities.  The EPA has stated it will consider lowering the threshold levels over the next five years, which could increase the impact on our existing facilities.  However, potential costs, fees or expenses associated with the potential adjustments are unknown.



In addition, the EPA issued a rule on air-quality standards, “National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines,” also known as RICE NESHAP, scheduled to be adopted in 2013.  The rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment.  We do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Finally, while the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) has been delegated primary responsibility for implementing federal environmental programs under the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act in Texas, the EPA retains program oversight.  Recently, an apparent division has arisen between TCEQ and the EPA over key aspects of these Texas regulatory programs (including among others, air and new source review permitting).  This division has led to





increased EPA scrutiny of TCEQ’s environmental permitting decisions and uncertainty with respect to how these programs will be administered in the future.



Superfund- The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on certain classes of persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment.  These persons include the owner or operator of a facility where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the facility.  Under CERCLA, these persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies.  We do not expect our current responsibilities under CERCLA, if
 any, to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Chemical Site Security- The United States Department of Homeland Security (Homeland Security) released an interim rule in April 2007 that requires companies to provide reports on sites where certain chemicals, including many hydrocarbon products, are stored.  We completed the Homeland Security assessments, and our facilities were subsequently assigned one of four risk-based tiers ranging from high (Tier 1) to low (Tier 4) risk, or not tiered at all due to low risk.  To date, four of our facilities have been given a Tier 4 rating.  Facilities receiving a Tier 4 rating are required to complete Site Security Plans and possible physical security enhancements.  We do not expect the Site Security Plans and possible security enhancements cost to have
 a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Pipeline Security- Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration, along with the United States Department of Transportation have completed a review and inspection of our “critical facilities” and identified no material security issues.



Environmental Footprint- Our environmental and climate change strategy focuses on taking steps to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment.  These strategies include: (i) developing and maintaining an accurate greenhouse gas emissions inventory, according to current rules issued by the EPA; (ii) improving the efficiency of our various pipelines, natural gas processing facilities and natural gas liquids fractionation facilities; (iii) following developing technologies for emission control; and (iv) following developing technologies to capture carbon dioxide to keep it from reaching the atmosphere.



ONEOK Partners participates in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program to voluntarily reduce methane emissions.  In 2010, ONEOK Partners received a Continuing Excellence award for five years of active participation in the STAR Program, including consistent reporting of emission-reduction activities, by its natural gas pipelines business.  We continue to focus on maintaining low rates of lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas through expanded implementation of best practices to limit the release of natural gas during pipeline and facility maintenance and operations.  Our most recent calculation of our annual lost-and-unaccounted-for natural gas, for all of our business operations, is less than 1 percent of total throughput.  We expect to complete our annual estimate for 2010 during the second quarter 
of 2011 and will post the information on our website when available.



EMPLOYEES



We employed 4,839 people at January 31, 2011, including 728 people employed by Kansas Gas Service who are subject to collective bargaining contracts.  The following table sets forth our contracts with collective bargaining units at January 31, 2011:



UnionEmployeesContract ExpiresThe United Steelworkers412October 27, 2011International Union of Operating Engineers12October 27, 2011International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)304June 30, 2014

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

All executive officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors, and each serves until such person resigns, is removed or is otherwise disqualified to serve, or until such officer’s successor is duly elected.  Our executive officers listed below include the officers who have been or, in the case of Mr. Norton, will be designated by our Board of Directors as our Section 16 executive officers.



Name and PositionAgeBusiness Experience in Past Five Years

John W. Gibson582010 to presentPresident and Chief Executive Officer

President, Chief Executive Officer2007 to 2009Chief Executive Officer

and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors (1)2011 to presentVice Chairman of the Board of Directors

2006 to presentMember of the Board of Directors

2010Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

2007 to 2009Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

2006President and Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

2005 to 2006President, ONEOK Energy Companies



Curtis L. Dinan432007 to presentSenior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer2004 to 2006Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

and Treasurer (2)



Robert F. Martinovich532009 to presentChief Operating Officer

Chief Operating Officer (3)2007 to 2009President, Gathering and Processing

2006 to 2007Group Vice President, EHS, Operations & Technical Services, DCP Midstream LLC

2002 to 2006Senior Vice President, Northern Division (Mid-Continent and Rockies), DCP

Midstream  LLC



Pierce H. Norton512009 to presentPresident, ONEOK Distribution Companies

President, ONEOK Distribution Companies (4)2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas

2006 to 2007President, Gathering and Processing



Terry K. Spencer512009 to presentChief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.

Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK Partners, L.P.2007 to 2009Executive Vice President, Natural Gas Liquids

2006President, Natural Gas Liquids



John R. Barker632004 to presentSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and

Assistant Secretary



Derek S. Reiners392009 to presentSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer2004 to 2009Partner, Grant Thornton LLP



(1) - Mr. Gibson was elected Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors on February 17, 2011, and will become Chairman of the Board of Directors following our Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 25, 2011.

(2) - Mr. Dinan will become President, Natural Gas of ONEOK Partners, L.P. effective March 1, 2011.

(3) - Mr. Martinovich will become Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer effective March 1, 2011.

(4) - Mr. Norton will become Chief Operating Officer, ONEOK, Inc. effective March 1, 2011.



No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.



INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE



We make available on our website (www.oneok.com) copies of our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and reports of holdings of our securities filed by our officers and directors under Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.  Copies of our Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Director Independence Guidelines are also available on our website, and we will provide copies of these documents upon request.  Our website and any contents thereof are not incorporated by reference into this report.<
/font>



We also make available on our website the Interactive Data Files required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.  In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be



incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.



