Item 1.Business



Introduction



Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager operating in more than 20 countries. As ofDecember 31, 2013, the firm managed$778.7 billionin assets for investors around the world.  By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive range of enduring solutions for our clients. We have a significant presence in the institutional and retail markets within the investment management industry in North America, U.K., Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.





Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).



Strategy



The company focuses on four key strategic objectives that are designed to further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:



•Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs;

•Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs;

•Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving executional effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and

•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels.



Since 2005, when we adopted our strategy to become an integrated global asset manager, Invesco has taken a number of steps to unify our business and present the organization as a single firm to our clients around the world. We believe this work has strengthened Invesco's ability to operate more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global organization.  We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”  See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note17, "Geographic Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011.











One of Invesco's great strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. The ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm. As an example, real estate securities and REITs managed in Dallas were first introduced to the U.S. institutional and retail markets in 1988. A few years later, we saw demand for this highly marketable capability in Japan and Australia, and made it available to investors through mutual funds in those markets. We introduced our REIT capability to the European cross-border market in August 2005 and to the Canadian retail market in 2007. We have also had success expanding our industry-leading balanced risk allocation capability globally. While this capability was initially created for institutional clients in the U.S. market, Invesco quickly expanded to the retail market with mutual funds in the U.S. and in the cross-border market. In 2013, Invesco further expanded its multi-asset capability with the addition of a dedicated multi-asset team in the U.K.



Recent Developments



Throughout 2013, we continued to execute our long-term strategy, which further improved our ability to serve clients, strengthened our investment reputation, and helped to deliver competitive levels of operating income and margins. We also took advantage of opportunities in the market and continued to invest in our products and capabilities, our brand, our global platform and our people in ways that strengthened our business and competitive position for long-term success. In late 2013, we launched the Global Targeted Return product line, with strong flows to the new fund in the U.K. market in the fourth quarter.  In addition, late in 2013, we launched a number of new "liquid alternative" capabilities. These capabilities leverage the firm's 25 years of experience managing alternative assets to bring existing institutional-quality alternative investment capabilities to our retail clients.  The company launched more funds in the fourth quarter of 2013 than in any year within the last five years.

On October 15, 2013, the company announced that the Head of U.K. Equities, Neil Woodford, will be leaving on April 29, 2014. Mark Barnett will succeed Mr. Woodford as Head of U.K. Equities. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Woodford was the named lead manager for U.K. Equity AUM totaling $46.6 billion. Between October 15, 2013 and December 31, 2013, U.K. equity income AUM experienced net outflows of $4.8 billion.Our total AUM in EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) at December 31, 2013 was $171.9 billion. Excluding the net outflows from U.K. equity income, EMEA long-term net inflows for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $4.3 billion.

On December 31, 2013, the company completed the sale of Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management (Atlantic Trust) to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC).  The transaction offered compelling advantages to the shareholders of Invesco, including improved allocation of capital and resources to support future growth of our core investment management business, and immediate expansion of the company's net operating margin. The results of Atlantic Trust, together with expenses and gain associated with the sale, are reflected as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income and are therefore excluded from the continuing operations of Invesco. Comparative periods shown in the Consolidated Statements of Income have been adjusted to conform with this presentation. Similarly, total AUM excludes the AUM of Atlantic Trust with comparative periods adjusted to a consistent basis.



Invesco's continued progress against a multi-year strategy set a firm foundation for the company's many achievements throughout the year.  Specifically, the firm:



•Maintained strong, long-term investment performance - 83% of actively managed assets ahead of peers* on a 3-year basis at year-end;

•Made solid progress toward building world-class fixed income capabilities anchored by a scaled global fixed income center and key hires;

•Continued to meet client demand by broadening our investment capabilities, including the introduction of new multi-asset capabilities and liquid alternative products;

•Completed the outsourcing of our European transfer agency processes;

•Completed the divestiture of Atlantic Trust to CIBC; and

•Successfully closed the acquisition of a minority joint venture investment in Religare Invesco Asset Management, a company in the fast-growing India market.



Together, these efforts drove meaningful organic growth across the firm, with positive net flows of$34.4 billionfor our business in2013.

____________



*As ofDecember 31, 2013, 83% of ranked assets were performing ahead of peers on a 3-year basis. Of total Invesco AUM,61%were ranked at year-end. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investment Capabilities Performance Overview,” for more discussion of AUM rankings by investment capability.











Certain Demographic and Industry Trends



Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:



•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is a large segment of the world population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in some emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding middle class with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, there is a high degree of global demand for an array of investment solutions that span the breadth of investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement. We believe Invesco, as one of the few truly global, independent investment managers, is very well positioned to attract these retirement assets through its products that are focused on long-term investment performance.

•Given the dynamics of the global markets over the past year, we have seen increased demand for investment solutions that provide reasonable returns in volatile markets. Investors increasingly recognize the need for reducing downside risk while maintaining upside participation.  Invesco has been growing rapidly in this market space and has a market-leading asset allocation capability.

•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets in order to increase their returns and mitigate risk. They seek firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.

•Although the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other markets in the world, such as China and India, are rapidly growing. As these population-heavy markets mature, we believe investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and pension type also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in these markets. Invesco has a meaningful and expanding market presence in many of the world's most attractive regions, including the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and the U.K., the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. We believe our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business.

•The global trend towards the provision of defined contribution retirement plans continues, although significant opportunity remains for managers to increase defined benefit market share. Invesco has the capability to serve both the defined benefit and defined contribution markets globally.



We believe Invesco is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities created by global demographic and industry trends. Our comprehensive range of investment capabilities and broad diversification enable us to continue building our business and strengthening our competitive position through a variety of economic and market environments. Our multi-year strategy is designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive investment management capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and foster our long-term success.



Investment Management Capabilities



Supported by a global platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment capabilities and services to retail and institutional investors. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.



We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management provide us with a competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, balanced, equity, fixed income, and alternatives. Approximately49%of our AUM as ofDecember 31, 2013, were invested in equity securities and51%in fixed income and other investments (December 31, 2012:44.3%in equity and55.7%in fixed income and other investments).











The following sets forth our managed investment objectives by asset class:



Money MarketBalancedEquityFixed IncomeAlternatives●Cash Plus●Balanced Risk●Emerging Markets●Convertibles●Absolute Return●Government/Treasury●Global●Enhanced Index/Quantitative●Core/Core Plus●Commodities●Prime● Single Country●International/Global●Emerging Markets●Currencies●Taxable●Target Date●Large Cap Core●Enhanced Cash●Financial Structures●Tax-Free●Target Risk●Large Cap Growth●Government Bonds●Global Macro●Traditional Balanced●Large Cap Value●High-Yield Bonds●Long/Short Equity●Low Volatility●Intermediate Term●Managed Futures●Mid Cap Core●International/Global●Private Capital - Direct●Mid Cap Growth●Investment Grade Credit●Private Capital - Fund of Funds●Mid Cap Value●Multi-Sector●Private Direct Real Estate – Asia●Regional/Single Country●Municipal Bonds●Private Direct Real Estate – Europe●Sector Funds●Passive/Enhanced●Private Direct Real Estate – U.S.●Small Cap Core●Short Term●Public Real Estate Securities – U.S.●Small Cap Growth●Stable Value●Public Real Estate Securities – Global●Small Cap Value●Structured Securities (ABS, MBS, CMBS)●Senior Secured Loans



Distribution Channels



Retail AUM originates from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originates from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities, or charities.  AUM disclosure by distribution channel represents consolidated AUM distributed by type of sales team (the company's internal distribution channels). AUM amounts disclosed as retail channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team; whereas AUM amounts disclosed as institutional channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team.



Since 2005, when the company adopted its strategy to become an integrated global asset manager, one of the steps taken was to unify the business and present the organization as a single firm to clients around the world.  These efforts included increased efforts to cross-sell investment capabilities globally and better integrate internal sales forces.  As a result, the company's retail and institutional sales forces are able to sell products that cross over traditional delineations of retail or institutional vehicle types. Therefore, not all products sold in the disclosed retail distribution channel are "retail" products, and not all products sold in the disclosed institutional channel are "institutional" products. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate.



Retail



Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major markets including the U.S., U.K., Canada, Continental Europe and Asia. Retail AUM was$519.6 billionatDecember 31, 2013. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including traditional broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance companies and trust companies.



The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Invesco Perpetual was one of the largest retail fund providers in the U.K.; Invesco's U.S. retail business was among the 10 largest non-proprietary fund complexes in the U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco Powershares franchise; and Invesco Canada was among the top 10 largest retail fund managers in Canada by long-term assets. Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with AUM of approximately$10.1 billionas ofDecember 31, 2013. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.











Institutional



We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia with$259.1 billionin AUM as ofDecember 31, 2013. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional equities, structured equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, private equity, distressed equities, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds and financial institutions. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions and corporations in the world.



The following lists our investment vehicles by distribution channel:



RetailInstitutional● Closed-end Mutual Funds● Collective Trust Funds● Exchange Traded Funds (ETF)● Exchange Traded Funds (ETF)● Individual Savings Accounts● Institutional Separate Accounts● Investment Companies with Variable Capital (ICVC)● Open-end Mutual Funds● Investment Trusts● Private Capital Funds● Open-end Mutual Funds● Separately Managed Accounts (SMA)● Unit Investment Trusts (UIT)● Variable Insurance Funds



AUM Diversification



One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of67%retail and33%institutional as ofDecember 31, 2013. By client domicile,33%of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than100countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as ofDecember 31, 2013. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active. Passive AUM includes ETFs, unit investment trusts (UITs), leveraged fund balances upon which we do not earn a fee, and other passive mandates. Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM.













By Client Domicile($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecU.S.521.315.2%cCanada27.17.5%cU.K.114.812.7%cContinental Europe60.957.0%cAsia54.611.4%Total778.7

By Distribution Channel($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecRetail519.622.0%cInstitutional259.17.2%Total778.7

By Asset Class($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecEquity383.129.6%cFixed Income171.7(0.1)%cBalanced53.322.2%cMoney Market82.712.8%cAlternatives87.95.9%Total778.7

Active vs. Passive($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecActive639.015.5%cPassive139.722.5%Total778.7









Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, on a continuing operations basis, the company had5,932employees across the globe. As ofDecember 31, 2012and2011, we had5,889and5,917employees, respectively. As ofDecember 31, 2012and2011, we had6,128and6,162employees including employees of the Atlantic Trust business, respectively. None of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements.



Competition



The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment styles, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both manage and distribute and/or service those products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.



Management Contracts



We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.



Available Information



We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





