Item 1.Business



Introduction



Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors worldwide achieve their financial objectives. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive range of investment strategies and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients around the world. Operating in more than 20 countries, Invesco had$625.3 billionin assets under management (AUM) as ofDecember 31, 2011.



The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, effective distribution relationships, and high-quality client service delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased AUM and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market movement by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, investment vehicles, client domiciles and geographies. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment product and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. Quality of client service is monitored in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants.



Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).



Strategy



The company focuses on four key strategic priorities that are designed to strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:



•Achieve strong investment performance over the long term for our clients;

•Deliver our investment capabilities anywhere in the world to meet our clients' needs;

•Harness the power of our global operating platform by continuously improving our processes and procedures and further integrating the support structures of our business globally; and

•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability and execution at all levels.



Since 2005 Invesco has taken a number of steps to unify our business and present the organization as a single firm to our clients around the world. We believe these changes have strengthened Invesco's ability to operate more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global organization.



One of Invesco's great strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe.  A key focus of our business is nurturing a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to develop well-performing investment capabilities within our local and global markets.



The ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm.  As an example, our highly regarded real estate team in Dallas has produced industry-leading results for clients over most of its 20 years in the business.  Real estate securities and REITs managed in Dallas were first introduced to the U.S. institutional and retail markets in 1988.  A few years later, we saw demand for this highly marketable capability in Japan and Australia, and made it available to investors through mutual funds in those markets.  We introduced our REIT capability to the European offshore market in August 2005, and to the Canadian retail market in 2007.  More recently, we leveraged this capability in an actively managed real estate exchange-traded fund (ETF) delivered in the US - the first of its kind.



There are many more examples where Invesco has leveraged market-leading capabilities in one part of our business to meet client demand in other parts of our business.  This is another of Invesco's great strengths, and it is supported by our efficient global operating platform and effective sales platform that span established and growing markets around the world.  It's also a tremendous competitive advantage, since few firms have the breadth of strategies, strong investment culture and on-the-ground sales and service presence to match Invesco's.  Our ability to understand local needs and provide solutions globally represents a significant









opportunity in a world-wide market of investable funds that exceeds $54 trillion (as of December 31, 2011).



We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”



Recent Developments



Throughout 2011, we continued to execute our long-term strategy, which we believe further improved our ability to serve our clients, reinforced our reputation as a premier global investment manager, and helped to deliver competitive levels of operating income and margins. In addition, we took steps to further strengthen our financial position and augment our capital flexibility through the execution of a new credit facility and the maintenance of a balanced approach to capital management. Currently, Invesco is one of only four publicly rated investment managers designated with a “strong” enterprise risk management rating from Standard & Poor's, which reflects our comprehensive approach to identifying and mitigating risks outside of the firm's risk tolerance levels.



Invesco's commitment to a multi-year strategy set a firm foundation for the company's many achievements throughout the year:



•Relative investment performance remained strong across the enterprise, with 80% of ranked assets* performing ahead of peers on a 5-year basis at year end;

•We focused on strengthening and deepening relationships with clients in key markets. For example, we maintained a market share ranking in the top three on all major platforms in the U.K. retail market and further strengthened relationships with leading financial institutions in all U.S. retail channels, where 70% of  our U.S. AUM is with top 20 distributors;

•We expanded our presence and improved our competitive advantage as a global investment manager in fast-growing, high-priority markets and segments;

•We continued our share repurchase program, purchasing more than $436 million in shares; and

•We maintained strong inflows at Invesco PowerShares, and continued to expand our offering of intelligent ETFs within the Canadian marketplace through local exchange listings and an innovative suite of mutual funds.



The 2010 acquisition of Morgan Stanley's retail asset management business, including Van Kampen Investments, enabled Invesco to further strengthen our competitive position in the U.S. The addition of this diversified business, on June 1, 2010, brought $114.6 billion in AUM across equity, fixed income and alternative asset classes (including mutual funds, variable insurance funds, separate accounts and unit investment trusts (UITs)). Furthermore, Invesco gained the experience, knowledge and expertise of nearly 600 investment, distribution and operations support professionals globally. The combined depth and breadth of our investment capabilities, our strong investment performance and a focused client engagement effort resulted in solid momentum in our U.S. retail business throughout 2011.



Together, these efforts resulted in positive net flows for our business in 2011. Adjusted operating margin improved to36.9%in 2011 from35.6%in 2010. See Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Schedule of Non-GAAP Information,” for a reconciliation of operating income to net operating income, and by calculation, a reconciliation of operating margin to adjusted operating margin, and important additional disclosures.



____________



*As of December 31, 2011, 80% of ranked assets were performing ahead of peers on a 5-year basis. Of total Invesco AUM, 58% were ranked at year-end. See Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investment Capabilities Performance Overview,” for more discussion of AUM rankings by investment capability.



Certain Demographic and Industry Trends



Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well-diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:



•There is an increasing number of investors who seek external professional advice and investment managers to help them reach their financial goals.

•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is a large segment of the world population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding middle class and high net worth population with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, globally, there is a high degree of demand









for an array of investment solutions that span the breadth of investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement. We believe Invesco, as one of the few truly global, independent investment managers, is very well-positioned to attract these retirement assets through its products that are focused on long-term investment performance.

•Given the dynamics of the global markets over the past year, we have seen increased demand for investment solutions that provide reasonable returns in volatile markets.  Investors increasingly recognize the need for reducing downside risk in addition to upside participation.  Invesco has been growing rapidly in this market space and has a market-leading asset allocation capability that is highly sought by retail and institutional investors.

•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets in order to increase their returns and mitigate risk. They seek firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.

•Although the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other markets in the world, such as China and India, are rapidly growing. As these population-heavy markets mature, investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and pension type also differ substantially among countries. Firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in these markets. Invesco has a meaningful and expanding market presence in many of the world's fastest growing and wealthiest regions, including the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and the U.K., the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. Our strong U.S. presence and growing global presence represent significant long-term growth prospects for our business.

•The global trend towards the provision of defined contribution retirement plans continues, although significant opportunity remains for managers to increase defined benefit market share. Invesco has the capability to serve both the defined benefit and defined contribution markets globally.



Invesco is well positioned to capture the opportunities created by global demographic and industry trends. Through a variety of economic and market environments, we have significantly strengthened our competitive position. Our multi-year strategy is designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and ensure our long-term success across a variety of markets.



Investment Management Capabilities



Supported by a global operating platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment capabilities and services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors. We have a significant presence in the institutional and retail segments of the investment management industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.



We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management provide us with a competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, fixed income, balanced, equity and alternatives. Approximately43%of our AUM as ofDecember 31, 2011, were invested in equity securities (December 31, 2010:48%),24%in fixed income, and33%in other investments (December 31, 2010:21%in fixed income, and31%in other investments).











The following table sets forth the investment objectives, sorted by asset class, which we manage:



Investment Objectives by Asset Class

Money MarketFixed IncomeBalancedEquityAlternativesCash PlusConvertiblesAsset AllocationEnhanced Index/QuantitativeAbsolute ReturnGovernment/TreasuryCore/Core PlusGlobalGlobalAsian Direct Real EstatePrimeEmerging MarketsSingle CountryInternationalCommoditiesTaxableEnhanced CashTarget DateLarge Cap CoreCurrenciesTax-FreeGovernment BondsTarget RiskLarge Cap GrowthEuropean Direct Real EstateHigh-Yield BondsLarge Cap ValueFinancial StructuresIntermediate TermMid Cap CoreGlobal REITSInternational/GlobalMid Cap GrowthPrivate Capital - DirectInvestment Grade CreditMid Cap ValuePrivate Capital - Fund of FundsMunicipal BondsRegional/Single CountryRisk Premia CapturePassive/EnhancedSector FundsU.S. Direct Real EstateSenior Secured LoansSmall Cap CoreU.S. REITSShort TermSmall Cap GrowthStable ValueSmall Cap ValueStructured Securities (ABS, MBS, CMBS)



The following table sets forth the categories of investment vehicles sold through our three principal distribution channels:



Investment Vehicles by Distribution Channel

RetailInstitutionalPrivate Wealth ManagementClosed-end Mutual FundsCollective Trust FundsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsManaged AccountsIndividual Savings AccountsInstitutional Separate AccountsMutual FundsInvestment Companies with Variable CapitalPrivate Capital FundsPrivate Capital FundsInvestment TrustsSeparate AccountsOpen-end Mutual FundsSeparately Managed Accounts (SMA)Unit Investment TrustsVariable Insurance Funds



One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of60%retail,37%institutional, and3%private wealth management clients as of December 31, 2011.  By client domicile,31%of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than100countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as of December 31, 2011.  Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our higher-fee active AUM as compared to our lower-fee ETF, UIT, and passive AUM.  We define active AUM as AUM excluding ETF, UIT and passive AUM.











AUM Diversification



By Client Domicile



($ billions)1-Yr ChangeU.S.$430.03.5%Canada$23.4(16.1)%U.K.$89.8(2.5)%Continental Europe$32.0(9.3)%Asia$50.19.4%Total$625.31.4%





By Distribution Channel

($ billions)1-Yr ChangeRetail$373.9(1.1)%Institutional$233.55.5%PWM$17.95.3%Total$625.31.4%







By Asset Class





($ billions)1-Yr ChangeEquity$271.0(7.8)%Balanced$44.62.5%Money Market$74.08.3%Fixed Income$149.012.9%Alternative$86.710.2%Total$625.31.4%























Active vs. ETF, UIT, and Passive

($ billions)1-Yr ChangeActive$529.0(1.3)%ETF, UIT, and Passive$96.319.2%Total$625.31.4%





See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 18, "Geographic Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years endedDecember 31,2011,2010and2009.



Channel refers to the distribution channel from which the AUM originated. Retail AUM arose from client investments into funds available to the public with shares or units. Institutional AUM originated from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities, or charities. Private Wealth Management AUM arose from high net worth client investments.



Retail



Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major markets: Invesco in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia, Invesco Perpetual in the U.K., and Invesco PowerShares (for our ETF products).  Collectively, the retail investment management teams managed assets of$373.9 billionas ofDecember 31, 2011. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including traditional broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance companies and trust companies.



The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As ofDecember 31, 2011, Invesco Perpetual was the No. 1 retail fund provider in the U.K.; Invesco's U.S. retail business was the 9th largest non-proprietary fund complex in the U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco Powershares franchise; and Invesco Canada was the 9th largest retail fund manager in Canada by long-term assets. Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with AUM of approximately$6.7 billionas ofDecember 31, 2011. Invesco PowerShares adds a leading set of ETF products (with$59.9 billionin AUM and209exchange-traded funds as ofDecember 31, 2011) to the extensive choices we make available to our retail investors. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.



Institutional



We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia-Pacific with$233.5 billionin AUM as ofDecember 31, 2011. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional equities, structured equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, private equity, distressed equities, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds and financial institutions. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions and corporations in the world.



Private Wealth Management



Through Atlantic Trust, Invesco provides high-net-worth individuals and their families with a broad range of personalized and sophisticated wealth management services, including financial counseling, estate planning, asset allocation, investment management (including use of third-party managed investment products), private equity, trust, custody and family office services. Atlantic Trust also provides investment management services to foundations and endowments. Atlantic Trust obtains new clients through referrals from existing clients, recommendations from other professionals serving the high-net-worth market, such as attorneys and accountants, and from financial intermediaries, such as brokers. Atlantic Trust has offices in 11 U.S. cities and









managed$17.9 billionas ofDecember 31, 2011.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2011, we had6,162employees across the globe. As ofDecember 31,2010and2009, we had 5,617 and 4,890 employees, respectively. None of our employees is covered under collective bargaining agreements. The increase from 2009 is primarily driven by acquisitions in 2010 and the in-sourcing of our Hyderabad, India, facility, which commenced in late 2010 and continued into early 2011.



Competition



The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment styles, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both distribute and/or serve investment products and manage investment products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.



Management Contracts



We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional and private wealth management clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.



Available Information



We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





