Item 1.Business

Introduction

Invesco is a leading independent global investment management company, dedicated to helping
people worldwide build their financial security. By delivering the combined power of our
distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive array of
enduring investment products for retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients around the world.
Operating in 20 countries, Invesco had $423.1 billion in assets under management (AUM) as of
December 31, 2009.

The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance and client service
delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels,
geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to generate
positive net flows, increased AUM and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market
movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market
movement by offering broad investment capability, client and geographical diversification. We
measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competing
products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment
advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g.,
three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment product and manager
recommendations to their customers, although shorter-term performance may also be an important
consideration. Third-party ratings may also have an influence on client investment decisions.
Quality of client service is monitored in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction
surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and
feedback from investment consultants.

Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and
traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at
www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or to be
incorporated into, this document).





Strategy

The company focuses on four key strategic priorities that are designed to further strengthen
our business and help ensure our long-term success:

•Achieve strong investment performance over the long term for our clients;

•Deliver the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities
anywhere in the world to meet our clients’ needs;

•Unlock the power of our global operating platform by simplifying our processes and
procedures and further integrating the support structures of our business globally; and

•Continue to build a high-performance organization by fostering greater transparency,
accountability and execution at all levels.

Over the past four years, Invesco has taken a number of steps to leverage the individual
strengths of our distinct investment centers and present the organization as a single firm to our
clients around the world. We believe these changes have strengthened Invesco’s ability to operate
more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global organization.

Since we take a unified approach to our business, we are presenting our financial statements
and other disclosures under the single operating segment “asset management.”

Recent Developments

The global economic recession, the general weakening of government, agency and corporate
credit, the dissolution and strategic redirection of certain large financial institutions, and the
market volatility over the past two years has had a significant impact on our industry. These
factors, among others, created a unique competitive opportunity for few investment management firms
that were able to deliver superior relative investment performance, maintain their corporate
financial strength, and remain intensely focused on their clients. We believe Invesco was one of
these few firms that was able to emerge from this challenging economic and market environment in an
improved competitive position.

Several investment, credit, and liquidity issues affected many key competitors within the
asset management industry, including significant economic and reputational exposure to asset-backed
securities, illiquid credit derivatives, structured investment vehicles (SIVs), auction rate
preferred shares, hedge funds that were effectively operating as Ponzi schemes, and securities
lending programs that lost value. Invesco had little to no exposure to such factors.
Furthermore, while some competitors were withdrawing from the marketplace, we were meeting
regularly with clients, helping them navigate the difficult markets and sharing solutions to meet
their long-term investment needs. That enhanced visibility allowed us to deepen our existing
relationships and foster new ones, putting us in a strong position as clients began returning to
the markets.

Invesco’s commitment to our multi-year strategy set a firm foundation for the company’s many
achievements during 2009, including:

•Relative investment performance remained strong across the enterprise in 2009, with
69% of assets  performing ahead of peers on a 3-year basis at year end;

•Maintaining the number one position for Invesco Perpetual in the U.K. for retail
assets under management, with record net inflows, particularly in fixed income, and
strong investment performance;

•Positive fund flows for the year and record fixed income assets under management for
Invesco Aim;

•Selection by the U.S. Treasury, among only eight asset managers, to participate in the
Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP);





•Launch of our mortgage REIT, Invesco Mortgage Capital, Inc. (IVR), an IPO which raised
$200 million in equity. In January 2010, Invesco Mortgage Capital raised an additional
$170 million;

•75% of Invesco Fixed Income AUM above benchmark on a 3-year basis at year end, further
building our reputation as a “safe hands” manager during a volatile time in the markets;

•Successful launch of a $540 million Chinese equity fund in Japan, which was the third
largest onshore China product offering in the local market;

•Industry recognition of our Asian investment teams, including best equity group award
for our China joint venture;

•Continued strong flows at Invesco PowerShares, and the launch of intelligent
exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to Canadian investors through an innovative suite of mutual
funds;

•Extended leadership position of the team at W.L. Ross & Co. with their unique
investment discipline and ability to capture distressed market opportunities;

•Continued growth of Invesco’s Hyderabad, India, facility, which was launched early in
2007 utilizing an outsourcing model commonly referred to as “build/operate/transfer.”
The facility provides cost-effective support for our operations, technology and finance
groups, and is now firmly established with an outsourced staff of more than 400. At such
time that formal transfer of control of the facility moves to Invesco (expected to occur
within the next 18 months), the current staff will become Invesco employees and will be
added to Invesco’s headcount.

Together, these efforts resulted in positive net flows for our business in each quarter of
2009. At the same time, reflecting the decline in global markets and resulting decline in the
company’s assets under management, operating margin and net operating margin decreased to 18.4% and
25.9% in 2009, respectively, from 22.6% and 31.6% in 2008, respectively. (See Part II, Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Schedule
of Non-GAAP Information” for a reconciliation of operating income to net operating income — and by
calculation, a reconciliation of operating margin to net operating margin — and important
additional disclosures.

We continued to execute on our long-term strategy, making disciplined capital and resource
allocation decisions in a challenging environment, which we believe further improved our ability to
serve our clients, reinforced our reputation as one of the premiere global asset managers, and
helped to deliver competitive levels of operating income and margins as we progressed through the
year. In addition, we took steps to further strengthen our financial position and augment our
capital flexibility through a successful capital raise and a new credit facility. We retain a
positive outlook by S&P and stable outlook with Moody’s.

Perhaps the most visible of our accomplishments in 2009 was our announcement in October that
we are acquiring Morgan Stanley’s retail asset management business, including Van Kampen. The
combination of our organizations has tremendous implications for Invesco’s business when the
transaction closes in mid-2010. Through this transaction, we expect to expand the depth and breadth
of our investment strategies, strengthen our overall distribution capabilities and greatly enhance
our ability to serve clients, both in the U.S. and globally. The planned acquisition provided
Invesco the opportunity to review its overall branding approach in the U.S. Under the new
approach, beginning April 30, 2010, Invesco Aim will be
rebranded as Invesco and AIM funds will be rebranded
with the Invesco name (e.g., AIM Charter Fund will become Invesco Charter Fund). In addition,
after the close of the transaction, Invesco will be added to the Van Kampen open-end fund names
(e.g., Van Kampen Comstock Fund will become Invesco Van Kampen Comstock Fund), and Invesco will
rebrand the Morgan Stanley products that are included in the transaction (e.g., Morgan Stanley
Special Value Fund will become Invesco Special Value Fund).

Certain Demographic and Industry Trends

Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment
management industry and our business:

•There is an increasing number of investors who seek external professional advice and
investment managers to help them reach their financial goals.





•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is an increasingly large
segment of the world population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in
emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding global middle class
and high net worth population with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, globally,
there is a high degree of demand for an array of investment solutions that span
investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement.
We believe Invesco, as one of the few, truly global, independent investment managers is
very well-positioned to attract these retirement assets through its enduring products
that are focused on long-term investment performance,

•We have seen increasing demand from clients for alpha and beta to be separated as
investment strategies in the investment management industry. (“Alpha” is defined as
excess return attributable to a manager, and “beta” refers to the return of an underlying
benchmark.) This trend reflects how clients are differentiating between low-cost beta
solutions such as passive, index and ETF products and higher-priced alpha strategies such
as those offered by many alternative products.

•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets. They seek
firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.
Invesco, with a comprehensive range of investment capabilities managed by distinct
investment teams worldwide, is well-positioned to benefit from this trend.

Our four strategic priorities and our plans for taking the business forward acknowledge these
demographic and economic trends, as we work to further strengthen our competitive position. Our
multi-year strategy is designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive worldwide
investment management capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and ensure
our long-term success.

Investment Management Capabilities

Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager with operations in 20 countries. As
of December 31, 2009, Invesco managed $423.1 billion in assets for retail, institutional and
high-net-worth investors around the world. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive
worldwide investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive array of enduring
solutions for our clients.

Supported by a global operating platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment
products and services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors on a global basis. We
have a significant presence in the institutional and retail segments of the investment management
industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, with clients in more than 100 countries.

We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers
and their well-defined investment disciplines provide us with a competitive advantage in the eyes
of many of our clients. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally
diverse as Invesco’s and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and products.
We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we
manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, fixed income, balanced, equity
and alternatives. Approximately 41% of our AUM as of December 31, 2009, was invested in equities
(December 31, 2008: 36% in equities), with the balance invested in fixed income and other
securities.





The following table sets forth the investment objectives by which we manage, sorted by asset
class:

Objectives by Asset Class

Money MarketFixed IncomeBalancedEquityAlternativesPrimeConvertiblesSingle CountrySmall Cap CoreFinancial StructuresGovernment/TreasuryCore/Core PlusGlobalSmall Cap GrowthAbsolute ReturnTax-FreeEmerging MarketsAsset AllocationSmall Cap ValueU.S. REITSCash PlusEnhanced CashTarget DateMid Cap CoreGlobal REITSTaxableGovernment BondsTarget RiskMid Cap GrowthU.S. Direct Real EstateHigh-Yield BondsMid Cap ValueEuropean Direct Real EstateBank LoansLarge Cap CoreAsian Direct Real EstatePassive/EnhancedLarge Cap GrowthPrivate Capital Direct InvestmentsIntermediate TermLarge Cap ValuePrivate Capital Fund of FundsInternational/GlobalEnhanced Index QuantitativePrivate Capital DistressedMunicipal BondsSector FundsPortable AlphaShort TermInternationalAlternative BetaStable ValueGlobalGTAA/Global MacroStructured SecuritiesRegional/Single Country(ABS, MBS, CMBS)Investment Grade Credit

The following table sets forth the categories of products sold through our three
principal distribution channels:

Investment Vehicles by Distribution Channel

RetailInstitutionalPrivate Wealth ManagementMutual FundsInstitutional Separate AccountsSeparate AccountsInvestment Companies with Variable CapitalCollective Trust FundsManaged AccountsInvestment TrustsManaged AccountsMutual FundsIndividual Savings AccountsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsPrivate Capital FundsPrivate Capital FundsVariable Insurance Funds





One of Invesco’s greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in our AUM by client
domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has gathered assets of
approximately 49% retail, 47% institutional, and 4% Private Wealth Management clients. 39% of
client assets under management are outside the U.S., and we service clients in more than 100
countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel
and asset class as of December 31, 2009:AUM DiversificationSee Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 12, Geographic
Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.9




Distribution Channels

Retail

Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients through our
distribution channels: Invesco Aim in the U.S., Invesco Trimark in Canada, Invesco Perpetual in the
U.K., Invesco in Europe and Asia, and Invesco PowerShares (for our ETF products). Collectively, the
retail investment management teams manage assets of $206.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. We
offer retail products within all of the major asset classes (money market, fixed income, balanced,
equity and alternatives). Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party
financial intermediaries, including traditional broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement
platforms, financial advisors, insurance companies and trust companies.

The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their
respective markets. As of December 31, 2009, Invesco Perpetual was the largest retail fund provider
in the U.K., Invesco Aim was the 15thlargest non-proprietary mutual fund complex in the
U.S., and Invesco Trimark was the 9thlargest retail fund manager in Canada, and in
addition, Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China was one of the largest Sino-foreign
managers of equity products in China, with AUM of approximately $8 billion as of December 31,
2009. Invesco PowerShares adds a leading set of ETF products (with $15 billion in AUM and 120
exchange-traded funds as of December 31, 2009) to the extensive choices we make available to our
retail investors. We believe that we provide our retail clients with one of the industry’s most
robust and comprehensive product lines.

Institutional

We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in
the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia-Pacific regions through Invesco and Invesco Aim
($201.0 billion in AUM as of December 31, 2009). We offer a broad suite of domestic and global
products, including traditional equities, structured equities, fixed income (including money market
funds for institutional clients), real estate, private equity, distressed equities, financial
structures, and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and
provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base
that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments,
foundations and financial institutions. Clients of Invesco Aim’s institutional money market funds
included 20 of the 25 largest commercial banks in the U.S., 11 of the 20 largest global banks, and
10 of the Fortune 20 corporations as of December 31, 2009.

Private Wealth Management

Through Atlantic Trust, Invesco provides high-net-worth individuals and their families with a
broad range of personalized and sophisticated wealth management services, including financial
counseling, estate planning, asset allocation, investment management (including use of third-party
managed investment products), private equity, trust, custody and family office services. Atlantic
Trust also provides asset management services to foundations and endowments. Atlantic Trust obtains
new clients through referrals from existing clients, recommendations from other professionals
serving the high-net-worth market, such as attorneys and accountants, and from financial
intermediaries, such as brokers. Atlantic Trust has offices in 11 U.S. cities and managed
$15.2 billion as of December 31, 2009.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 4,890 employees across the globe. As of December 31, 2008 and
2007, we had 5,325 and 5,475 employees, respectively. None of our employees is covered under
collective bargaining agreements.

Competition

The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation
including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business
reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and
the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management
firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and
other financial institutions. We believe that the diversity of our investment styles, product types
and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management
business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as
our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both distribute
investment products and manage investment products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against
our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.





Management Contracts

We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients
and funds. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively
managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and
lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts. Investment management
contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days’ notice. Typically, retail investors
may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional and private wealth
management clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount
of assets under management with very short-notice periods.

Available Information

We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC,
copies of which can be obtained from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make
available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
to, the SEC.



