Item 1.Business



Introduction



Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors worldwide achieve their financial objectives. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive range of investment strategies and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients around the world. Operating in more than 20 countries, Invesco had$687.7 billionin assets under management (AUM) as ofDecember 31, 2012.



The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, effective distribution relationships, and high-quality client service delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased AUM and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market movement by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, investment vehicles, client domiciles and geographies. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. Quality of client service is monitored in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants.



Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).



Strategy



The company focuses on four key strategic priorities that are designed to strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:



•Achieve strong investment performance over the long term for our clients;

•Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities anywhere in the world to meet their needs;

•Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving our processes and procedures and further unifying the support structures of our business globally; and

•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability and execution at all levels.



Since 2005, when we adopted our strategy to become an integrated asset manager, Invesco has taken a number of steps to unify our business and present the organization as a single firm to our clients around the world. We believe these changes have strengthened Invesco's ability to operate more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global organization.



Since 2008, we have encountered business challenges as we have executed our long-term strategy.  Over the last five years, investors in global markets have focused their demand on less risky asset classes such as fixed income and passive products; this has in turn driven down the net revenue yield on Invesco's net flows as investors have shifted away from higher yielding AUM such as traditional equities.   Furthermore, during this time frame, much of our existing product lineup was based on locally or regionally focused investment capabilities, which by their nature, do not experience the same levels of operating leverage as products or capabilities that can generate global demand.  Despite this period of challenge, we were able to deliver improving investment performance and we  increased our ability to grow organically.  We have also enhanced our financial strength, have closely managed costs and shareholder returns, and have delivered new products that will allow us to add global scale.



One of Invesco's great strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe.  A key focus of our business is nurturing a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to develop









well-performing investment capabilities within our local and global markets.  The ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm.  As an example, real estate securities and REITs managed in Dallas were first introduced to the U.S. institutional and retail markets in 1988.  A few years later, we saw demand for this highly marketable capability in Japan and Australia, and made it available to investors through mutual funds in those markets.  We introduced our REIT capability to the European offshore market in August 2005, and to the Canadian retail market in 2007.  More recently, we leveraged this capability in an actively managed real estate exchange-traded fund (ETF) delivered in the US - the first of its kind.  We've also had success expanding our industry-leading balanced risk allocation capability globally.  While this capability was initially created for institutional clients in the U.S. market, Invesco quickly expanded to the retail market with mutual funds in the U.S. and offshore.  In 2012, Invesco announced that it was further expanding its multi-asset capability with the addition of a dedicated multi-asset team in the U.K.



We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”



Recent Developments



Throughout 2012, we continued to execute our long-term strategy, which further improved our ability to serve clients, reinforced our reputation as a premier global investment manager, and helped to deliver competitive levels of operating income and margins.  We also took advantage of opportunities in the market and continued to invest in our products and capabilities, our brand, our global platform and our people in ways that strengthened our business and competitive position for long-term success.



Invesco's continued progress against a multi-year strategy set a firm foundation for the company's many achievements throughout the year:



•Relative investment performance remained strong across the enterprise, with78%of ranked assets* performing ahead of peers on a 5-year basis at year-end;

•We focused on strengthening and deepening relationships with clients in key markets. For example, we maintained a market share ranking in the top three on all major platforms in the U.K. retail market and further strengthened relationships with leading financial institutions in all U.S. retail channels;

•We expanded our presence and improved our competitive advantage as a global investment manager in fast-growing, high-priority markets (e.g., China) and segments (e.g., multi-asset strategies);

•We continued our share repurchase program, purchasing $265 million in shares; and

•We maintained strong inflows at Invesco PowerShares, and leveraged our expertise to build our ETF capabilities and brand in China and Canada.



Together, these efforts resulted in strong, positive net flows for our business in2012.



____________



*As of December 31, 2012,78%of ranked assets were performing ahead of peers on a 5-year basis. Of total Invesco AUM,59%were ranked at year-end. See Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investment Capabilities Performance Overview,” for more discussion of AUM rankings by investment capability.



Certain Demographic and Industry Trends



Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:



•There is an increasing number of investors who seek external professional advice and investment managers to help them reach their financial goals.

•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is a large segment of the world population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding middle class and high net worth population with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, there is a high degree of global demand for an array of investment solutions that span the breadth of investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement. We believe Invesco, as one of the few truly global, independent investment managers, is very well positioned to attract these retirement assets through its products that are focused on long-term investment performance.









•Given the dynamics of the global markets over the past year, we have seen increased demand for investment solutions that provide reasonable returns in volatile markets.  Investors increasingly recognize the need for reducing downside risk while maintaining upside participation.  Invesco has been growing rapidly in this market space and has a market-leading asset allocation capability that is highly sought by retail and institutional investors.

•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets in order to increase their returns and mitigate risk. They seek firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.

•Given the recent volatility in the market, the industry has seen an emphasis on risk management and yield-oriented products, many of which are experiencing strong flows.  This dynamic shifted demand to lower-risk and passive investments (e.g. ETFs) and away from traditional equities and actively managed investments.

•Although the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other markets in the world, such as China and India, are rapidly growing. As these population-heavy markets mature, investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and pension type also differ substantially among countries. Firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in these markets. Invesco has a meaningful and expanding market presence in many of the world's fastest growing and wealthiest regions, including the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and the U.K., the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. Our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business.

•The global trend towards the provision of defined contribution retirement plans continues, although significant opportunity remains for managers to increase defined benefit market share. Invesco has the capability to serve both the defined benefit and defined contribution markets globally.



Invesco is well positioned to capture the opportunities created by global demographic and industry trends. Our comprehensive range of investment capabilities and broad diversification enable us to continue building our business and strengthening our competitive position through a variety of economic and market environments.  Our multi-year strategy is designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and ensure our long-term success.



Investment Management Capabilities



Supported by a global platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment capabilities and services to retail, institutional and high net worth investors. We have a significant presence in the institutional and retail segments of the investment management industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.



We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management provide us with a competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, fixed income, balanced, equity and alternatives. Approximately43%of our AUM as ofDecember 31, 2012, were invested in equity securities (December 31, 2011:43%) and57%in fixed income and other investments (December 31, 2011:57%in fixed income and other investments).











The following table sets forth the investment objectives, sorted by asset class, which we manage:



Investment Objectives by Asset Class

Money MarketFixed IncomeBalancedEquityAlternativesCash PlusConvertiblesGlobalEmerging MarketsAbsolute ReturnGovernment/TreasuryCore/Core PlusSingle CountryEnhanced Index/QuantitativeCommoditiesPrimeEmerging MarketsTarget DateInternational/GlobalCurrenciesTaxableEnhanced CashTarget RiskLarge Cap CoreFinancial StructuresTax-FreeGovernment BondsBalanced RiskLarge Cap GrowthManaged FuturesHigh-Yield BondsTraditional BalancedLarge Cap ValuePrivate Capital - DirectIntermediate TermMid Cap CorePrivate Capital - Fund of FundsInternational/GlobalMid Cap GrowthPrivate Direct Real Estate – AsiaInvestment Grade CreditMid Cap ValuePrivate Direct Real Estate – EuropeMulti-SectorRegional/Single CountryPrivate Direct Real Estate – U.S.Municipal BondsSector FundsPublic Real Estate Securities – U.S.Passive/EnhancedSmall Cap CorePublic Real Estate Securities – GlobalShort TermSmall Cap GrowthSenior Secured LoansStable ValueSmall Cap ValueStructured Securities (ABS, MBS, CMBS)



The following table sets forth the categories of investment vehicles sold through our three principal distribution channels:



Investment Vehicles by Distribution Channel

RetailInstitutionalPrivate Wealth ManagementClosed-end Mutual FundsCollective Trust FundsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsExchange-Traded FundsManaged AccountsIndividual Savings AccountsInstitutional Separate AccountsMutual FundsInvestment Companies with Variable CapitalOpen-end Mutual FundsPrivate Capital FundsInvestment TrustsPrivate Capital FundsSeparate AccountsOpen-end Mutual FundsSeparately Managed Accounts (SMA)Unit Investment TrustsVariable Insurance Funds



One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of62%retail,35%institutional, and3%private wealth management clients as ofDecember 31, 2012.  By client domicile,31%of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than100countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as ofDecember 31, 2012.  Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active.  Passive AUM includes ETFs, UITs, non-fee earning leverage, foreign exchange overlays and other passive mandates.  Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM.













AUM Diversification



By Client Domicile



($ billions)1-Yr ChangeU.S.$472.810.0%Canada$25.27.7%U.K.$101.913.5%Continental Europe$38.821.3%Asia$49.0(2.2)%Total$687.710.0%





By Distribution Channel



($ billions)1-Yr ChangeRetail$425.813.9%Institutional$242.03.6%PWM$19.911.2%Total$687.710.0%







By Asset Class



($ billions)1-Yr ChangeEquity$297.49.7%Balanced$62.139.2%Money Market$73.3(0.9)%Fixed Income$171.915.4%Alternative$83.0(4.3)%Total$687.710.0%























Active vs. Passive



($ billions)1-Yr ChangeActive$573.78.4%Passive$114.018.4%Total$687.710.0%



See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note18, "Geographic Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years endedDecember 31,2012,2011and2010.



Channel refers to the distribution channel from which the AUM originated. Retail AUM arose from client investments into funds available to the public with shares or units. Institutional AUM originated from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities, or charities. Private Wealth Management AUM arose from high net worth client investments.



Retail



Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major markets: Invesco in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia, Invesco Perpetual in the U.K., and Invesco PowerShares (for our ETF products).  Collectively, the retail investment management teams managed assets of$425.8 billionas ofDecember 31, 2012. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including traditional broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance companies and trust companies.



The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As ofDecember 31, 2012, Invesco Perpetual was one of the largest retail fund providers in the U.K.; Invesco's U.S. retail business was among the top 10 largest non-proprietary fund complexes in the U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco Powershares franchise; and Invesco Canada was among the top 10 largest retail fund managers in Canada by long-term assets. Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with AUM of approximately$6.4 billionas ofDecember 31, 2012. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.



Institutional



We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia with$242.0 billionin AUM as ofDecember 31, 2012. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional equities, structured equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, private equity, distressed equities, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds and financial institutions. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions and corporations in the world.



Private Wealth Management



Through Atlantic Trust, Invesco provides high net worth individuals and their families with a broad range of personalized and sophisticated wealth management services, including financial counseling, estate planning, asset allocation, investment management (including use of third-party managed investment products), private equity, trust, custody and family office services. Atlantic Trust also provides investment management services to foundations and endowments. Atlantic Trust obtains new clients through referrals from existing clients, recommendations from other professionals serving the high net worth market, such as attorneys and accountants, and from financial intermediaries, such as brokers. Atlantic Trust has offices in 12 U.S. cities and managed$19.9 billionas ofDecember 31, 2012.











Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had6,128employees across the globe. As ofDecember 31,2011and2010, we had6,162and 5,617 employees, respectively. None of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The2011increase in headcount, as compared to2010, was primarily driven by the insourcing of our Hyderabad, India, facility.



Competition



The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment styles, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both distribute and/or serve investment products and manage investment products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.



Management Contracts



We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional and private wealth management clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.



Available Information



We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





