Item 1.Business

Introduction

Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors
worldwide achieve their financial objectives. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive
investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive range of investment strategies
and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients around the world. Operating in
more than 20 countries, Invesco had $616.5 billion in assets under management (AUM) as of December
31, 2010.

The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, effective
distribution relationships, and high-quality client service delivered across a diverse spectrum of
investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures.
By achieving success in these areas, we seek to generate competitive investment results, positive
net flows, increased AUM and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market
movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market
movement by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, client domiciles and
geographies. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to
competitors’ products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally,
distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment
performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment product
and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an
important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions.
Quality of client service is monitored in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction
surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and
feedback from investment consultants.

Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and
traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at
www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or be
incorporated into, this document).

Strategy

The company focuses on four key strategic priorities that are designed to strengthen our
business over time and help ensure our long-term success:

•Achieve strong investment performance over the long term for our clients;•Deliver our investment capabilities anywhere in the world to meet our clients’ needs;





•Harness the power of our global operating platform by continuously improving our
processes and procedures and further integrating the support structures of our business
globally; and•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency,
accountability and execution at all levels.

Since 2005 Invesco has taken a number of steps to further unify our business and present the
organization as a single firm to our clients around the world. We believe these changes have
strengthened Invesco’s ability to operate more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global
organization.

Since we take a unified approach to our business, we present our financial statements and
other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”

Recent Developments

On June 1, 2010, Invesco acquired Morgan Stanley’s retail asset management business, including
Van Kampen Investments. The addition of this diversified business brought $114.6 billion in AUM
across equity, fixed income and alternative asset classes (including mutual funds, variable
insurance funds, separate accounts and unit investment trusts (UITs)). Furthermore, Invesco gained
the experience, knowledge and expertise of nearly 600 investment, distribution and operations
support professionals globally. This transformational combination:

•Expanded the depth and breadth of our investment strategies, enabling us to offer an even
more comprehensive range of investment capabilities and vehicles to our clients around the
world;•Enhanced our ability to serve U.S. clients by positioning Invesco among the leading U.S.
investment managers by AUM, diversity of investment teams and client profiles;•Deepened Invesco’s relationships with clients and strengthened our overall distribution
capabilities; and•Further strengthened our position in the Japanese investment management market.

Our goal from the day we announced the transaction was to complete the preparatory integration
work prior to close. With a focused effort across Invesco, we accomplished our goal and were able
to deliver the value of the combined organization to clients from Day 1. Throughout the second half
of 2010, we saw strong momentum in the combined business.

In addition to our acquisition of Morgan Stanley’s retail asset management business, Invesco’s
commitment to a multi-year strategy set a firm foundation for the company’s many achievements
throughout the year. During 2010:

•Relative investment performance remained strong across the enterprise, with 68% of
ranked assets* performing ahead of peers on a 3-year basis at year end;•We focused on strengthening and deepening relationships with clients in key markets.
For example, we maintained a market share ranking in the top three on all major platforms
in the U.K. retail market and strengthened relationships with leading financial
institutions in all U.S. retail channels, where 70% of AUM is with top 20 distributors;•We expanded our presence and improved our competitive advantage as a global investment
manager in fast-growing, high-priority markets and segments;•We resumed our share repurchase program, purchasing 9.4 million shares for $192.2
million; and•We maintained strong inflows at Invesco PowerShares, and expanded our offering of
intelligent exchange-traded funds (ETFs) within the Canadian marketplace through an
innovative suite of mutual funds.



*As of December 31, 2010, 68% of ranked assets were performing ahead of peers on a 3-year basis.
Of total Invesco AUM, 61% were ranked at year-end. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investment Capabilities Performance Overview,”
for more discussion of AUM rankings by investment capability.





Together, these efforts resulted in positive net flows for our business in 2010. Adjusted
operating margin improved to 34.5% in 2010 from 28.5% in 2009. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Schedule of Non-GAAP
Information” for a reconciliation of operating income to net operating income, and by calculation,
a reconciliation of operating margin to adjusted operating margin, and important additional
disclosures.

Throughout 2010, we continued to execute our long-term strategy, making disciplined capital
and resource allocation decisions, which we believe further improved our ability to serve our
clients, reinforced our reputation as a premier global investment manager, and helped to deliver
competitive levels of operating income and margins as we progressed through the year. In addition,
we took steps to further strengthen our financial position and augment our capital flexibility
through the execution of a new credit facility and the maintenance of a balanced approach to
capital management. We have received credit ratings of A3/Stable and A-/Stable from Moody’s and
Standard & Poor’s credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. In the fourth quarter, Standard & Poor’s increased Invesco’s enterprise risk management
(ERM) rating from “adequate” to “strong,” making Invesco one of only four publicly rated investment
managers with a “strong” ERM designation.

Certain Demographic and Industry Trends

Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment
management industry and our business and underscore the need to be well-diversified with broad
capabilities globally and across asset classes:

•There is an increasing number of investors who seek external professional advice and
investment managers to help them reach their financial goals.



•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is an increasingly large
segment of the world population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in
emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding middle class and high
net worth population with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, globally, there is
a high degree of demand for an array of investment solutions that span the breadth of
investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement.
We believe Invesco, as one of the few truly global, independent investment managers, is
very well-positioned to attract these retirement assets through its enduring products
that are focused on long-term investment performance.



•We have seen increasing demand from clients for alpha and beta to be separated as
investment strategies in the investment management industry. (“Alpha” is defined as
excess return attributable to a manager, and “beta” refers to the volatility in returns
versus an underlying benchmark.) This trend reflects how clients are differentiating
between low-cost beta solutions such as passive, index and ETF products and higher-priced
alpha strategies such as those offered by many alternative products.



•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets. They seek
firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.



•Although the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial
assets by a wide margin, other markets in the world, such as China and India, are rapidly
growing. As these population-heavy markets mature, investment managers that are truly
global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age
differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment
needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and pension type also differ
substantially among countries. Invesco has a meaningful and expanding market presence in
many of the world’s fastest growing and wealthiest regions, including the U.S., Canada,
Western Europe and the UK, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. Our strong U.S. presence and
growing global presence represent significant long-term growth prospects for our
business.



•The global trend towards the provision of defined contribution retirement plans
continues, although significant opportunity remains for managers to increase defined
benefit market share.

Invesco is well positioned to capture the opportunities created by global demographic and
industry trends. Through a variety of economic and market environments, our progress over the past
five years has significantly strengthened our competitive position. Our multi-year strategy is
designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive worldwide investment management
capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and ensure our long-term success.





Investment Management Capabilities

Supported by a global operating platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment
capabilities and services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors on a global basis.
We have a significant presence in the institutional and retail segments of the investment
management industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than 150
countries.

We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers
and their well-defined investment disciplines provide us with a competitive advantage. There are
few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco’s and with the same
breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives
within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined,
include money market, fixed income, balanced, equity and alternatives. Approximately 48% of our AUM
as of December 31, 2010, were invested in equity securities (December 31, 2009: 41%), and
approximately 52% was invested in fixed income and other investments (December 31, 2009: 59%).

The following table sets forth the investment objectives, sorted by asset class, which we
manage:

Investment Objectives by Asset Class

Money MarketFixed IncomeBalancedEquityAlternativesCash PlusGovernment/TreasuryPrimeTaxableTax-FreeBank LoansConvertiblesCore/Core PlusEmerging MarketsEnhanced CashGovernment BondsHigh-Yield BondsIntermediate TermInternational/GlobalInvestment Grade CreditMunicipal BondsPassive/EnhancedShort TermStable ValueStructured Securities(ABS, MBS, CMBS)Asset AllocationGlobalSingle CountryTarget DateTarget RiskEnhanced Index/QuantitativeGlobalInternationalLarge Cap CoreLarge Cap GrowthLarge Cap ValueMid Cap CoreMid Cap GrowthMid Cap ValueRegional/Single CountrySector FundsSmall Cap CoreSmall Cap GrowthSmall Cap ValueAbsolute ReturnAsian Direct Real EstateCommoditiesCurrenciesEuropean Direct Real EstateFinancial StructuresGlobal MacroGlobal REITSPrivate Capital - DirectPrivate Capital - Fund of FundsRisk Premia CaptureU.S. Direct Real EstateU.S. REITS

The following table sets forth the categories of investment vehicles sold through our
three principal distribution channels:

Investment Vehicles by Distribution Channel

RetailInstitutionalPrivate Wealth ManagementClosed-end Mutual FundsExchange-Traded FundsIndividual Savings AccountsInvestment Companies with Variable CapitalInvestment TrustsOpen-end Mutual FundsSeparately Managed AccountsUnit Investment TrustsVariable Insurance FundsCollective Trust FundsExchange-Traded FundsInstitutional Separate AccountsPrivate Capital FundsExchange-Traded FundsManaged AccountsMutual FundsPrivate Capital FundsSeparate Accounts





One of Invesco’s greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client
domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has gathered assets of 61%
retail, 36% institutional, and 3% Private Wealth Management clients as of December 31, 2010. 32.6%
of client assets under management are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than 150
countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel
and asset class as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split
of our higher-fee non-passive AUM as compared to our lower-fee ETF, UIT, and passive AUM.AUM DiversificationBy Client Domicile($ billions)1-Yr ChangeU.S.$415.441.2%Canada$27.9(3.8)%U.K.$92.18.5%Continental Europe$35.344.7%Asia$45.869.0%Total$616.534.2%By Distribution Channel($ billions)1-Yr ChangeRetail$378.458.1%Institutional$221.17.9%PWM$17.011.8%Total$616.534.2%By Asset Class($ billions)1-Yr ChangeEquity$294.152.6%Balanced$43.59.0%Money Market$68.3(18.2)%Fixed Income$131.973.3%Alternative$78.716.9%Total$616.534.2%Non-Passive/Passive($ billions)1-Yr ChangeNon-Passive$535.731.8%ETF, UIT, and Passive$80.852.5%Total$616.534.2%8




See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 18, Geographic
Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Distribution Channels

Channel refers to the distribution channel from which the AUM originated. Retail AUM arose
from client investments into funds available to the public with shares or units. Institutional AUM
originated from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, government authorities,
universities, or charities. Private Wealth Management AUM arose from high net worth client
investments.

Retail

Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major
markets: Invesco in the U.S., Invesco Trimark in Canada, Invesco Perpetual in the U.K., Invesco in
Europe and Asia, and Invesco PowerShares (for our ETF products). Additionally, Invesco is now also
a market leading sponsor of UIT products as a result of the acquisition of Morgan Stanley’s retail
asset management business. Collectively, the retail investment management teams managed assets of
$378.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. We offer retail products within all of the major asset
classes (money market, fixed income, balanced, equity and alternatives). Our retail products are
primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including traditional
broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance
companies and trust companies.

The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their
respective markets. As of December 31, 2010, Invesco Perpetual was the No. 1 retail fund provider
in the U.K.; Invesco’s U.S. retail business was the 9th largest non-proprietary fund complex in the
U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco Powershares franchise; and Invesco Trimark was the
9th largest retail fund manager in Canada by long-term assets. Invesco Great Wall, our joint
venture in China, was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with
AUM of approximately $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. Invesco PowerShares adds a leading set
of ETF products (with $55.7 billion in AUM and 176 exchange-traded funds as of December 31, 2010)
to the extensive choices we make available to our retail investors. We provide our retail clients
with one of the industry’s most robust and comprehensive product lines.

Institutional

We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in
the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia-Pacific with $221.1 billion in AUM as of December 31,
2010. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global products, including traditional equities,
structured equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real
estate, private equity, distressed equities, financial structures and absolute return strategies.
Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries
around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities,
corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds and
financial institutions. Invesco’s institutional money market funds serve some of the largest
financial institutions and corporations in the world.

Private Wealth Management

Through Atlantic Trust, Invesco provides high-net-worth individuals and their families with a
broad range of personalized and sophisticated wealth management services, including financial
counseling, estate planning, asset allocation, investment management (including use of third-party
managed investment products), private equity, trust, custody and family office services. Atlantic
Trust also provides investment management services to foundations and endowments. Atlantic Trust
obtains new clients through referrals from existing clients, recommendations from other
professionals serving the high-net-worth market, such as attorneys and accountants, and from
financial intermediaries, such as brokers. Atlantic Trust has offices in 11 U.S. cities and managed
$17.0 billion as of December 31, 2010.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 5,617 employees across the globe. As of December 31, 2009 and
2008, we had 4,890 and 5,325 employees, respectively. None of our employees is covered under
collective bargaining agreements. Formal hiring of staff in our Hyderabad, India, facility
commenced with 83 individuals becoming our employees in late 2010. An additional 474 individuals
became our employees by the date of this Report.





Competition

The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation
including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business
reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and
the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management
firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and
other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment styles,
product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment
management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive
advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both
distribute and/or serve investment products and manage investment products. Lastly, we believe
continued execution against our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term
competitive position.

Management Contracts

We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds
and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on
actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset
products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as
certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days’
notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice.
Institutional and private wealth management clients may elect to terminate their relationship with
us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.

Available Information

We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC,
copies of which can be obtained from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make
available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
to, the SEC.



