Item 1.Business



Introduction



Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager operating in more than 20 countries. As ofDecember 31, 2014, the firm managed$792.4 billionin assets for investors around the world.  By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco seeks to provide a comprehensive range of enduring solutions for our clients. We have a significant presence in the institutional and retail markets within the investment management industry in North America, U.K., Europe, Middle East and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.





Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda, and our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a Web site at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our Web site shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).



Strategy



The company focuses on four key strategic imperatives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:



•Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs;

•Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs;

•Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving executional effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and

•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels.



Since 2005, when we adopted our strategy to become an integrated global investment manager, Invesco has taken a number of steps to unify our business and present the organization as a single firm to our clients around the world. We believe this work has strengthened Invesco's ability to meet clients' needs and operate more efficiently and effectively as an integrated, global organization.  We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”  See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note17, "Geographic









Information,” for a geographic breakdown of our consolidated operating revenues for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012.



One of Invesco's great strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. The ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to meet clients' demands across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm.



Recent Developments



Throughout 2014, we continued to execute our long-term strategy, which further improved our ability to serve clients, strengthened our investment performance, and helped to deliver competitive levels of operating income and margins. We also took advantage of opportunities in the market and invested in our products and capabilities, our brand, our global platform and our people in ways that strengthened our business and competitive position for long-term success.

In March 2014, leadership of the U.K. Equities team transitioned to Mark Barnett. Mr. Barnett and the team delivered strong investment performance to clients throughout 2014. Although we experienced outflows in the U.K. as a result of the transition, dominated by a single client outflow of $13.1 billion, our U.K. and Continental Europe business grew and became more diversified throughout 2014, with significant flows into fixed income, non-U.K. equities, real estate and multi-asset capabilities.  In particular, U.K. retail achieved a record year of gross sales across a range of capabilities, demonstrating the strength and resilience of our business.

Invesco achieved solid growth across our global business during 2014, supported by our strong, long-term investment performance, our comprehensive range of strategies and solutions, and our robust client engagement efforts.  Our broadly diversified offering, combined with our strong investment performance, contributed to an adjusted operating margin* of41.4%for 2014, up from39.7%a year ago.  Also during 2014, we made additional progress against our strategic imperatives, launched several new products and further invested in key parts of our business that will benefit our clients and enhance our competitiveness over the long term.  More specifically, Invesco:



▪Delivered strong investment performance across our global franchise, with 77% and 81% of actively managed ranked assets ahead of peers** on a three- and five-year basis, respectively, as of December 31, 2014;

▪Further expanded client access to our Invesco PowerShares offerings, with new ETFs launched in Canada and China;

▪Launched our multi-asset capability, Global Targeted Return (GTR), in multiple markets.  Based on its strong performance relative to peers, GTR achieved strong flows in its initial year of offering; AUM surpassed $3 billion globally at year end;

▪Further enhanced our range of robust fixed income capabilities, anchored by an expanded global fixed income center and key hires;

▪Made additional progress innovating and expanding the range of alternative products to meet institutional and retail client demand; and

▪Demonstrated strong employee engagement across the firm, with Invesco being named as one of the best places to work in money management by Pensions & Investments magazine.

▪Barron’s listed Invesco as one of its “Best Fund Families of 2014” based on the magazine’s annual ranking of US mutual funds.  Invesco was the only fund family to rank among the top five in all three periods - 1, 5 and 10 years.



Combined, these efforts helped us achieve further growth across our global business by delivering strong investment performance and excellent client service.  We believe we are in the early stages of achieving the full potential of our global business.



____________

*Adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. Adjusted operating margin is adjusted operating income divided by net revenues.  See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Schedule of Non-GAAP Information,” for the reconciliation of operating income to adjusted operating income, and the reconciliation of operating revenues to net revenues.



**As ofDecember 31, 2014, 77% and 81% of ranked assets were performing ahead of peers on a 3 and 5-year basis. Of total Invesco AUM,60%were ranked at year-end. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investment Capabilities Performance Overview,” for more discussion of AUM rankings by investment capability.













Certain Demographic and Industry Trends



Demographic and economic trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:



•As the “baby boomer” generation continues to mature, there is a large segment of the world's wealth-owning population that is reaching retirement age. Economic growth in some emerging market countries has created a large and rapidly expanding middle class with accelerating levels of wealth. As a result, there is a high degree of global demand for an array of investment solutions that span the breadth of investment capabilities, with a particular emphasis on savings vehicles for retirement. We believe Invesco, as one of the few truly global, independent investment managers, is very well positioned to attract these retirement assets through its products that are focused on long-term investment performance.

•Given the dynamics of the global markets over the past year, we have seen increased demand for investment solutions that provide reasonable returns in volatile markets. Investors increasingly recognize the need for reducing downside risk while maintaining upside participation.  Invesco has been growing rapidly in this market space and has a market-leading asset allocation capability.

•Investors are increasingly seeking to invest outside their domestic markets in order to increase their returns and mitigate risk. They seek firms that operate globally and have investment expertise in markets around the world.

•Although the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other markets in the world, such as China and India, are rapidly growing. As these population-heavy markets mature, we believe investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and retirement savings schemes also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in these markets. Invesco has a meaningful and expanding market presence in many of the world's most attractive regions, including the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and the U.K., the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. We believe our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business.

•The global trend towards the provision of defined contribution retirement plans continues, although significant opportunity remains for managers to increase defined benefit market share. Invesco has the capability to serve both the defined benefit and defined contribution markets globally.

•In the current low-interest rate environment, alongside the implementation of significant global quantitative easing policies and volatility in equity markets, investors are increasingly attracted to passive products, which are gaining share at the expense of active products.  With its broad range of investment capabilities spanning asset classes that encompass both active strategies and passive strategies, Invesco is well-positioned ahead of this trend.



We believe Invesco is poised to take advantage of opportunities created by global demographic and industry trends. Our comprehensive range of investment capabilities and broad diversification enable us to continue meeting client needs and strengthening our competitive position through a variety of economic and market environments. Our multi-year strategy is designed to leverage our global presence, our distinctive investment management capabilities and our talented people to further grow our business and foster our long-term success.



Investment Management Capabilities



Supported by a global platform, Invesco delivers a comprehensive array of investment capabilities and services to retail and institutional investors. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than100countries.



We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment centers and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management provide us with a competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, balanced, equity, fixed income, and alternatives. As ofDecember 31, 2014,48.5%of our AUM were invested in equity securities and51.5%in fixed income and other investments (December 31, 2013:49.2%in equity and50.8%in fixed income and other investments).











The following sets forth our managed investment objectives by asset class:



Money MarketBalancedEquityFixed IncomeAlternatives●Cash Plus●Balanced Risk●Emerging Markets●Convertibles●Absolute Return●Government/Treasury●Global●Enhanced Index/Quantitative●Core/Core Plus●Commodities●Prime● Single Country●International/Global●Emerging Markets●Currencies●Taxable●Target Date●Large Cap Core●Enhanced Cash●Financial Structures●Tax-Free●Target Risk●Large Cap Growth●Government Bonds●Global Macro●Traditional Balanced●Large Cap Value●High-Yield Bonds●Long/Short Equity●Low Volatility●Intermediate Term●Managed Futures●Mid Cap Core●International/Global●Multi-Alternatives●Mid Cap Growth●Investment Grade Credit●Private Capital - Direct●Mid Cap Value●Multi-Sector●Private Capital - Fund of Funds●Regional/Single Country●Municipal Bonds●Private Direct Real Estate – Asia●Sector Funds●Passive/Enhanced●Private Direct Real Estate – Europe●Small Cap Core●Short Term●Private Direct Real Estate – U.S.●Small Cap Growth●Stable Value●Public Real Estate Securities●Small Cap Value●Structured Securities (ABS, MBS, CMBS)●Senior Secured Loans



Distribution Channels



Retail AUM originates from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originates from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities, or charities.  AUM disclosure by distribution channel represents consolidated AUM distributed by type of sales team (the company's internal distribution channels). AUM amounts disclosed as retail channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team; whereas AUM amounts disclosed as institutional channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team.



Since 2005, when the company adopted its strategy to become an integrated global investment manager, one of the steps we took was to unify the business and present the organization as a single firm to clients around the world.  These steps included increased efforts to cross-sell investment capabilities globally and better integrate internal sales forces.  As a result, the company's retail and institutional sales forces are able to sell products that cross over traditional delineations of retail or institutional vehicle types. Therefore, not all products sold in the disclosed retail distribution channel are "retail" products, and not all products sold in the disclosed institutional channel are "institutional" products. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate.



The following lists our investment vehicles by distribution channel:



RetailInstitutional● Closed-end Mutual Funds● Collective Trust Funds● Exchange Traded Funds (ETF)● Exchange Traded Funds (ETF)● Individual Savings Accounts● Institutional Separate Accounts● Investment Companies with Variable Capital (ICVC)● Open-end Mutual Funds● Investment Trusts● Private Capital Funds● Open-end Mutual Funds● Separately Managed Accounts (SMA)● Unit Investment Trusts (UIT)● Variable Insurance Funds











Retail



Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major markets including the U.S., U.K., Canada, Continental Europe and Asia. Retail AUM was$532.5 billionatDecember 31, 2014. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including traditional broker-dealers, fund “supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance companies and trust companies.



The U.K., U.S., Canadian and Continental European retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Invesco Perpetual was one of the largest retail fund providers in the U.K.; Invesco's U.S. retail business was among the 10 largest non-proprietary fund complexes in the U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco PowerShares franchise; and Invesco Canada was among the top 10 largest retail fund managers in Canada by long-term assets, and Invesco in Continental Europe was among the 10 largest non-proprietary investment managers in the retail channel. Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with AUM of approximately$10.0 billionas ofDecember 31, 2014. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.



Institutional



We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe and Asia with$259.9 billionin AUM as ofDecember 31, 2014. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional and quantitative equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, private equity, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds, financial institutions and sovereign wealth funds. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions, government entities and corporations in the world.



AUM Diversification



One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of67%retail and33%institutional as ofDecember 31, 2014. By client domicile,33%of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than100countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as ofDecember 31, 2014. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active. Passive AUM includes ETFs, unit investment trusts (UITs), leveraged fund balances upon which we do not earn a fee, and other passive mandates. Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM.













By Client Domicile($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecU.S.532.12.1%cCanada25.8(4.8)%cU.K.105.1(8.4)%cContinental Europe71.116.7%cAsia58.36.8%Total792.4

By Distribution Channel($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecRetail532.52.5%cInstitutional259.90.3%Total792.4

By Asset Class($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecEquity384.40.3%cFixed Income181.65.8%cBalanced50.6(5.1)%cMoney Market76.5(7.5)%cAlternatives99.313.0%Total792.4

Active vs. Passive($ in billions)Total1-Yr ChangecActive651.01.9%cPassive141.41.2%Total792.4









Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, on a continuing operations basis, the company had6,264employees across the globe. As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, we had5,932and5,889employees, respectively.  None of our employees is covered under collective bargaining agreements.



Competition



The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality of service and the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment styles, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both manage and distribute and/or service those products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our multi-year strategy will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.



Management Contracts



We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.



Available Information



We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





