Item 1.Business



Overview



Dover Corporation (“Dover” or the
    “Company”), incorporated in 1947 in the State of
    Delaware, became a publicly traded company in 1955. The Company
    owns and operates a global portfolio of manufacturing companies
    providing innovative components and equipment, specialty systems
    and support services for a variety of applications in the
    industrial products, engineered systems, fluid management and
    electronic technologies markets. Additional information is
    contained in Items 7 and 8.



Operating
    Structure



The Company reports its results in four business
    segments — Industrial Products, Engineered Systems,
    Fluid Management and Electronic Technologies. The Company
    discusses its operations at the platform level within the
    Industrial Products, Engineered Systems, and Fluid Management
    segments, each of which contains two platforms. The results of
    Electronic Technologies are discussed at the segment level.
    Dover companies design, manufacture, assembleand/orservice the following:



Industrial
    Products



•Material handling equipment such as industrial and recreational
    winches, utility, construction and demolition machinery
    attachments, hydraulic parts, industrial automation tools,
    four-wheel-drive (“4WD”) and all-wheel drive
    (“AWD”) power train systems, accessories for off-road
    vehicles and operator cabs and rollover structures.•Mobile equipment related products, primarily refuse truck
    bodies, tank trailers, compactors, balers, vehicle service lifts
    and collision equipment, car wash systems, internal engine
    components, fluid control assemblies and various aerospace
    components.



Engineered
    Systems



•Engineered products such as refrigeration systems, refrigeration
    display cases, walk-in coolers, foodservice equipment,
    commercial kitchen air and ventilation systems, heat transfer
    equipment, and food and beverage packaging machines.•Product identification related products such as industrial
    marking and coding systems used to code information (i.e. dates
    and serial numbers) on consumer products, printing products for
    cartons used in warehouse logistics operations, bar code
    printers and portable printers.



Fluid
    Management



•Energy market production and distribution products such as
    sucker rods, drill bit inserts for oil and gas exploration, gas
    well production control devices, control valves, piston and seal
    rings, control instrumentation, remote data collection and
    transfer devices, and components for compressors, turbo
    machinery, motors and generators.•Fluid solution products including nozzles, swivels and
    breakaways used to deliver various types of fuel, suction system
    equipment, unattended fuel management systems, integrated tank
    monitoring, pumps used in fluid transfer applications, quick
    disconnect couplings used in a wide variety of biomedical and
    commercial applications, and chemical proportioning and
    dispensing systems.



Electronic
    Technologies



•Electronic technology equipment and devices/components such as
    advanced micro-component products for the hearing aid and
    consumer electronics industries, high frequency capacitors,
    microwave electromagnetic





switches, radio frequency and microwave filters, electromagnetic
    products, frequency control/select components and sophisticated
    automated assembly and testing equipment.



Business
    Strategy



The Company operates with certain fundamental business
    strategies. First, it seeks to acquire and own businesses that
    manufacture proprietary engineered industrial products and are
    leaders in four broad markets: Industrial Products, Engineered
    Systems, Fluid Management and Electronic Technologies. To ensure
    success, Dover companies place strong emphasis on new product
    development to better serve customers and expand into new
    product and geographic markets. Second, the Company’s
    businesses are committed to operational excellence, and to being
    market leaders as measured by market share, customer service,
    innovation, profitability and return on invested capital. Third,
    the Company is committed to an operating culture with high
    ethical standards, trust, respect and open communication, to
    allow individual growth and operational effectiveness. Fourth,
    the Company seeks to utilize its strong free cash flow in a
    balanced manner to grow its businesses and to increase
    shareholder value.



Management
    Philosophy



The Company’s operating structure of four defined industry
    segments and six core business platforms within those segments
    drives focused acquisition activity, accelerates opportunities
    to identify and capture operating synergies, including global
    sourcing and supply chain integration, and advances the
    development of the Company’s executive talent. The
    presidents of the Company’s operating companies and groups
    have responsibility for their businesses’ performance as
    they are able to serve customers by focusing closely on their
    products and markets and reacting quickly to customer needs. The
    Company’s segment and executive management set strategic
    direction and initiatives, provide oversight, allocate and
    manage capital, are responsible for major acquisitions and
    provide other services.



In addition, the Company is committed to creating value for its
    customers, employees and shareholders through sustainable
    business practices that protect the environment and the
    development of products that help its customers meet their
    sustainability goals. Dover companies are increasing their focus
    on efficient energy usage, greenhouse gas reduction and waste
    management as they strive to meet the global environmental needs
    of today and tomorrow.



Company
    Goals



The Company is committed to driving shareholder return through
    three key objectives. First, the Company is committed to
    achieving annual sales growth of 7% to 10% which includes 4% to
    5% through-cycle organic growth. The balance of sales growth is
    expected to be achieved from disciplined acquisitions. Secondly,
    the Company continues to focus on margin improvement activities
    and to expand return on invested capital to effectuate earnings
    per share growth ranging from 10% to 13% on an annual basis.
    Lastly, the Company is committed to generating free cash flow as
    a percentage of sales in excess of 10% through disciplined
    capital allocation and active working capital management. The
    Company supports these goals through (1) alignment of
    management compensation with these objectives, (2) a well
    defined and actively managed merger and acquisition processes,
    and (3) talent development programs.



Portfolio
    Development



Acquisitions



The Company’s acquisition program has two elements. First,
    it seeks to acquire value creating add-on businesses that
    broaden its existing companies and their global reach,
    manufacture innovative components and equipment, specialty
    systemsand/orsupport services, and sell to industrial or commercial users.
    Second, in the right circumstances, it will strategically pursue
    larger, stand-alone businesses that have the potential to either
    complement its existing companies or allow the Company to pursue
    a new platform. During the period from 2007 through 2009, the
    Company purchased 17 businesses with an aggregate cost of
    $605.8 million.



In 2009, the Company acquired six add-on businesses, for
    aggregate consideration of $228.4 million (including
    $6.4 million of consideration paid in the form of common
    stock issued in connection with the acquisition of Inpro/Seal
    Company). In 2008, the Company acquired four add-on businesses
    for an aggregate cost of $103.8 million, and in 2007, the
    Company acquired seven add-on businesses for an aggregate cost
    of $273.6 million.





For more details regarding acquisitions completed over the past
    two years, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8. The Company’s future growth
    depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful
    businesses, as a substantial number of the Company’s
    current businesses operate in relatively mature markets. While
    the Company expects to generate annual organic growth of
    4% - 5% over a business cycle absent extraordinary economic
    conditions, sustained organic growth at these levels for
    individual businesses is difficult to achieve consistently each
    year.



Dispositions



While the Company generally expects to hold and integrate
    businesses that it buys, it continually reviews its portfolio to
    verify that those businesses continue to be essential
    contributors to the Company’s long-term growth strategy.
    Occasionally the Company may also make an opportunistic sale of
    one of its companies based on specific market conditions and
    strategic considerations. During the past three years (2007-
    2009), the Company decided to reduce its exposure to small,
    lower margin operations, and, accordingly, it discontinued 7
    operations and sold 10 businesses for an aggregate consideration
    of approximately $187.3 million. For more details, see the
    “Discontinued Operations” discussion below and
    Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
    Item 8.



Reportable
    Segments



Below is a description of the Company’s reportable segments
    and related platforms. For additional financial information
    about the Company’s reportable segments, see Note 14
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of thisForm 10-K.



Industrial
    Products



The Industrial Products segment provides Material Handling
    products and services that improve its customers’
    productivity as well as products used in various Mobile
    Equipment applications primarily in the transportation
    equipment, vehicle service and solid waste management markets.
    The segment manages and sells its products and services through
    two business platforms described below.



Material
    Handling



The Material Handling platform primarily serves two global
    markets — infrastructure and industrial automation.
    The companies in this platform develop and manufacture branded
    customer productivity enhancing systems. These products are
    produced in the United States, Germany, Thailand, India, China,
    Brazil and France and are marketed globally on a direct basis to
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and through a global
    dealer and distribution network to industrial end users.



The Material Handling platform companies in the infrastructure
    market sell to broad segments of the construction, utility,
    demolition, recycling, scrap processing, material handling,
    forestry, energy, military, marine, towing/recovery, refuse,
    mining and automotive OEM markets. Major products include mobile
    shears, concrete demolition tools, buckets, backhoes, trenchers,
    augers, worm gear and planetary winches, and hydraulic lift and
    electronic control/monitoring systems for mobile and structural
    cranes, 4WD and AWD power train systems, accessories for
    off-road vehicles and operator cabs and rollover structures.
    These products are sold to OEMs and extensive dealer networks
    primarily in North America. Components systems and services are
    also provided for military vehicles and marine applications.



The Material Handling platform companies in the industrial
    automation market provide a wide range of modular automation
    components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and
    linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, as
    well asend-of-armrobotic grippers, slides and end effectors. These products serve
    a very broad market including food processing, packaging, paper
    processing, medical, electronic, automotive, nuclear, and
    general industrial products. These businesses generate almost
    half of their revenues outside the U.S.



Mobile
    Equipment



The Mobile Equipment platform serves three primary
    markets — transportation equipment, solid waste
    management and vehicle service. The companies in this platform
    manufacture tank trailers, specialty trailers, refuse collection





bodies (garbage trucks), container lifts,on-sitewaste management and recycling systems, vehicle service lifts,
    touch-free and friction vehicle wash systems, vehicle collision
    measuring and repair systems, aerospace and submarine related
    fluid control assemblies, high strength fasteners and bearings,
    internal jet engine components and accessories, precision
    components for commercial and military aerospace equipment and
    commercial aerospace after market services. The businesses also
    provide components for off-road sports vehicles and high
    performance automotive and power-sport vehicles. The platform
    has manufacturing operations in North and South America, Asia
    and Europe.



The businesses in the transportation equipment market
    manufacture and sell aluminum, stainless steel and steel tank
    trailers that carry petroleum products, chemical, edible and dry
    bulk products, as well as specialty trailers focused on the
    heavy haul, oil field and recovery markets. Trailers are
    marketed both directly and indirectly through distributors to
    customers in the construction, trucking, railroad, oilfield and
    heavy haul industries. These products are also sold to
    government agencies in the United States and globally.



The businesses in the solid waste management market provide
    products and services for the refuse collection industry and foron-siteprocessing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials.
    Products are sold to municipal customers, national accounts and
    independent waste haulers through a network of distributors and
    directly in certain geographic areas. Theon-sitewaste management and recycling systems include a variety of
    stationary compactors, wire processing and separation machines,
    and balers that are manufactured and sold primarily in the
    U.S. to distribution centers, malls, stadiums, arenas,
    office complexes, retail stores and recycling centers.



The businesses in the vehicle service market provide a wide
    range of products and services that are utilized in vehicle
    services, maintenance, repair and modification. Vehicle lifts
    and collision equipment are sold through equipment distributors
    and directly to a wide variety of markets, including independent
    service and repair shops, collision repair shops, national
    chains and franchised service facilities, new vehicle dealers,
    governments, and directly to consumers via the internet. Car
    wash systems, both “touch-free” and
    “friction”, are sold primarily in the United States
    and Canada to major oil companies, convenience store chains and
    individual investors. These products are sold through a
    distribution network that installs the equipment and provides
    after sale service and support. High performance internal
    combustion engine components, including pistons, connecting
    rods, crankshafts and accessories, and fuel and combustion
    management devices are designed to meet customer specifications
    for the racing and enthusiast markets in both the powersports
    and automotive market segments. These products are sold directly
    and through distribution networks on a global basis.



Engineered
    Systems



The Engineered Systems segment provides products and services
    for the refrigeration, storage, packaging and preparation of
    food products, as well as industrial marking and coding systems
    for various markets. The segment serves its markets by managing
    these products and services through two business platforms which
    are described below.



Product
    Identification



The Product Identification platform (“PI”) is a
    worldwide supplier of industrial marking and coding systems that
    serves food, beverage, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, electronic,
    automotive and other markets where variable marking is required.
    Its primary printing products are used for marking variable
    information (such as date codes or serial numbers) on consumer
    products. PI provides solutions for product marking on primary
    packaging, secondary packaging such as cartons, and pallet
    marking for use in warehouse logistics operations. PI also
    manufactures bar code printers and portable printers used where
    on demand labels/receipts are required. The PI principal
    manufacturing facilities are in the United States, France and
    China with sales operations globally.



Engineered
    Products



The Engineered Products platform manufactures refrigeration
    systems, refrigeration display cases, walk-in coolers and
    freezers, electrical distribution products and engineering
    services, commercial foodservice equipment, cook-chill
    production systems, custom food storage and preparation
    products, kitchen ventilation systems, conveyer systems,
    beverage can-making machinery, and packaging machines used for
    meat, poultry and other food products. In addition, the platform
    manufactures copper-brazed compact heat exchangers, and designs





software for heating and cooling substations. The
    platform’s manufacturing facilities and distributing
    operations are in North America, Europe and Asia.



The majority of the systems and machinery that are manufactured
    or serviced by the Engineered Products platform is used by the
    supermarket industry, “big-box” retail and convenience
    stores, the commercial/industrial refrigeration industry,
    institutional and commercial foodservice markets, and beverage
    can-making industries. The commercial foodservice cooking
    equipment products serve their markets worldwide through a
    network of dealers, distributors, national chain accounts,
    manufacturer representatives, and a direct sales force with the
    primary market being North America. The heat exchangers are sold
    via a direct sales force throughout the world for various
    applications in a wide variety of industries.



Fluid
    Management



The Fluid Management segment provides products and services forend-to-endstewardship of its customers’ critical fluids including
    liquids, gases, powders and other solutions that are hazardous,
    valuable or process-critical. The segment provides highly
    engineered, cost-saving technologies that help contain, control,
    move, measure and monitor these critical fluids. To better serve
    its end-markets, these products and services are channeled
    through two business platforms described below.



Energy



The Energy platform serves the oil, gas and power generation
    industries. Its products promote the efficient and
    cost-effective extraction, storage and movement of oil and gas
    products, or constitute critical components for power generation
    equipment. Major products manufactured by companies within this
    platform include: polycrystalline diamond cutters (PDCs) used in
    drill bits for oil and gas wells; steel sucker rods, plunger
    lifts, and accessories used in artificial lift applications in
    oil and gas production; pressure, temperature and flow
    monitoring equipment used in oil and gas exploration and
    production applications; and control valves and instrumentation
    for oil and gas production. In addition, these companies
    manufacture various compressor parts that are used in the
    natural gas production, distribution and oil refining markets,
    as well as bearings and remote condition monitoring systems that
    are used for rotating machinery applications such as turbo
    machinery, motors, generators and compressors used in energy,
    utility, marine and other industries. Sales are made directly to
    customers and through various distribution channels. Sales are
    predominantly in North America with international sales directed
    largely to Europe and South America.



Fluid
    Solutions



The Fluid Solutions platform manufactures pumps, compressors,
    vehicle fuel dispensing products, and products for the transfer,
    monitoring, measuring and protection of hazardous, liquid and
    dry bulk commodities. In addition, these companies manufacture
    quick disconnect couplings and chemical proportioning and
    dispensing products. The products are manufactured in the United
    States, South America, Asia and Europe and marketed globally
    through a network of distributors or via direct channels.



Vehicle fuel dispensing products include conventional, vapor
    recovery, and clean energy (LPG, CNG, and Hydrogen) nozzles,
    swivels and breakaways, as well as tank pressure management
    systems. Products manufactured for the transportation, storage
    and processing of hazardous liquid and dry-bulk commodities
    include relief valves, loading/unloading angle valves, rupture
    disc devices, actuator systems, level measurement gauges, swivel
    joints, butterfly valves, lined ball valves, aeration systems,
    industrial access ports, manholes, hatches, collars, weld rings
    and fill covers.



This platform’s pumps and compressors are used to transfer
    liquid and bulk products and are sold to a wide variety of
    markets, including the refined fuels, LPG, pulp and paper,
    wastewater, food/sanitary, military, transportation and chemical
    process industries. These companies manufacture centrifugal,
    reciprocating (double diaphragm) and rotary pumps that are used
    in demanding and specialized fluid transfer process applications.



The quick disconnect couplings provide fluid control solutions
    to the industrial, food handling, life sciences and chemical
    handling markets. The chemical portioning and dispensing systems
    are used to dilute and dispense





concentrated cleaning chemicals and are sold to the food
    service, health care, supermarket, institutional, school,
    building service contractor and industrial markets.



Electronic
    Technologies



The Electronic Technologies segment designs and manufactures
    electronic test, material deposition and manual soldering
    equipment, advanced micro-acoustic components, and specialty
    electronic components. The products are manufactured primarily
    in North America, Europe and Asia and are sold throughout the
    world directly and through a network of distributors.



The test equipment products include machines, test fixtures and
    related products used in testing “bare” and
    “loaded” electronic circuit boards and semiconductors.
    In addition, the segment manufactures high-speed precision
    material deposition machines and other related tools used in the
    assembly process for printed circuit boards and other specialty
    applications as well as precision manual soldering, de-soldering
    and other hand tools.



The micro-acoustic components manufactured include audio
    communications components, primarily miniaturized microphones,
    receivers and electromechanical components for use in hearing
    aids as well as high performance transducers for use in
    professional audio devices, high-end headsets, medical devices
    and military headsets. This business also designs, manufactures
    and assembles microphones for use in the personal mobile device
    and communications markets, including mobile phones, PDAs,
    Bluetooth®headsets and laptop computers.



The specialty electronic components include frequency
    control/select components and modules employing quartz
    technologies, microwave electromechanical switches, radio
    frequency and microwave filters, integrated assemblies,
    multi-layer ceramic capacitors and high frequency capacitors.
    These components are sold to communication, medical, defense,
    aerospace and automotive manufacturers worldwide.



Discontinued
    Operations



Operating companies that are considered discontinued operations
    in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification
    (“ASC”) 360, Property Plant and Equipment, are
    presented separately in the consolidated statements of
    operations, balance sheets and cash flows and are not included
    in continuing operations. Earnings from discontinued operations
    include impairment charges, when necessary, to reduce these
    businesses to estimated fair value. Fair value is determined by
    using directly observable inputs, such as a negotiated selling
    price, or other valuation techniques that use market assumptions
    that are reasonable and supportable. All interim and full year
    reporting periods presented reflect the continuing operations on
    a comparable basis. Please refer to Note 3 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of thisForm 10-Kfor additional information on discontinued operations.



Raw
    Materials



The Company’s operating companies use a wide variety of raw
    materials, primarily metals and semi-processed or finished
    components, which are generally available from a number of
    sources. As a result, shortages or the loss of any single
    supplier have not had, and are not likely to have, a material
    impact on operating profits. While the needed raw materials are
    generally available, commodity pricing has trended upward over
    the past few years, particularly for various grades of steel,
    copper, aluminum and select other commodities. The Company has
    generally kept pace with or exceeded raw material cost increases
    using effective pricing strategies. During 2009, the Company
    generally experienced decreases in commodity prices.



Research
    and Development



The Company’s operating companies are encouraged to develop
    new products as well as to upgrade and improve existing products
    to satisfy customer needs, expand revenue opportunities
    domestically and internationally, maintain or extend competitive
    advantages, improve product reliability and reduce production
    costs. During 2009, $178.3 million of expense was incurred
    for research and development, including qualified engineering
    costs, compared with $189.2 million and $193.2 million
    in 2008 and 2007, respectively.







Our operating companies in the Product Identification platform
    and Electronic Technologies segment expend significant effort in
    research and development because the rate of product development
    by their customers is often quite high. The companies that
    develop product identification equipment and specialty
    electronic components for the life sciences, datacom and telecom
    commercial markets believe that their customers expect a
    continuing rate of product innovation, performance improvement
    and reduced costs. The result has been that product life cycles
    in these markets generally average less than five years with
    meaningful sales price reductions over that time period.



The Company’s other segments contain many businesses that
    are also involved in important product improvement initiatives.
    These businesses also concentrate on working closely with
    customers on specific applications, expanding product lines and
    market applications, and continuously improving manufacturing
    processes. Most of these businesses experience a much more
    moderate rate of change in their markets and products than is
    generally experienced by the Product Identification platform and
    the Electronic Technologies segment.



Intellectual
    Property and Intangible Assets



The Company owns many patents, trademarks, licenses and other
    forms of intellectual property, which have been acquired over a
    number of years and, to the extent relevant, expire at various
    times over a number of years. A large portion of the
    Company’s intellectual property consists of patents,
    unpatented technology and proprietary information constituting
    trade secrets that the companies seek to protect in various
    ways, including confidentiality agreements with employees and
    suppliers where appropriate. In addition, a significant portion
    of the Company’s intangible assets relate to customer
    relationships. While the Company’s intellectual property
    and customer relationships are important to its success, the
    loss or expiration of any of these rights or relationships, or
    any group of related rights or relationships, is not likely to
    materially affect the Company on a consolidated basis. The
    Company believes that its companies’ commitment to
    continuous engineering improvements, new product development and
    improved manufacturing techniques, as well as strong sales,
    marketing and service efforts, are significant to their general
    leadership positions in the niche markets that they serve.



Seasonality



In general, Dover companies, while not strongly seasonal, tend
    to have stronger revenue in the second and third quarters,
    particularly companies serving the consumer electronics,
    transportation, construction, waste hauling, petroleum,
    commercial refrigeration and food service markets. Companies
    serving the major equipment markets, such as power generation,
    chemical and processing industries, have long lead times geared
    to seasonal, commercial or consumer demands, and tend to delay
    or accelerate product ordering and delivery to coincide with
    those market trends.



Customers



Dover’s companies serve thousands of customers, no one of
    which accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s
    consolidated revenue in 2009.  Similarly, within each of the
    four segments, no customer accounted for more than 10% of that
    segment’s revenue in 2009.



With respect to the Engineered Systems, Fluid Management and
    Industrial Products segments, customer concentrations are quite
    varied. Companies supplying the waste handling, construction,
    agricultural, defense, energy, automotive and commercial
    refrigeration industries tend to deal with a few large customers
    that are significant within those industries. This also tends to
    be true for companies supplying the power generation, aerospace
    and chemical industries. In the other markets served, there is
    usually a much lower concentration of customers, particularly
    where the companies provide a substantial number of products as
    well as services applicable to a broad range of end use
    applications.



Certain companies within the Electronic Technologies segment
    serve the military, space, aerospace, commercial and
    datacom/telecom infrastructure markets. Their customers include
    some of the largest operators in these markets. In addition,
    many of the OEM customers of these companies within the
    Electronic Technologies segment outsource their manufacturing to
    Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) companies.
    Other customers include global cell phone and hearing aid
    manufacturers, many of the largest global EMS companies,
    particularly in China, and major printed circuit board and
    semiconductor manufacturers.





Backlog



Backlog generally is not a significant long-term success factor
    in most of the Company’s businesses, as most of the
    products of Dover companies have relatively shortorder-to-deliveryperiods. It is more relevant to those businesses that produce
    larger and more sophisticated machines or have long-term
    government contracts, primarily in the Mobile Equipment platform
    within the Industrial Products segment. Total Company backlog as
    of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $1,083.5 million and
    $1,156.0 million, respectively. This reflects the decrease
    in global economic activity experienced during the latter half
    of 2008, which began to stabilize in the latter half of 2009.



Competition



The Company’s competitive environment is complex because of
    the wide diversity of the products its companies manufacture and
    the markets they serve. In general, most Dover companies are
    market leaders that compete with only a few companies, and the
    key competitive factors are customer service, product quality
    and innovation. Dover companies usually have more significant
    competitors domestically, where their principal markets are,
    than innon-U.S. markets.However, Dover companies are becoming increasingly global where
    more competitors exist.



Certain companies in the Electronic Technologies and Engineered
    Systems segments compete globally against a variety of
    companies, primarily operating in Europe and the Far East.



International



Fornon-U.S. revenueand an allocation of the assets of the Company’s continuing
    operations, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of thisForm 10-K.



Although international operations are subject to certain risks,
    such as price and exchange rate fluctuations andnon-U.S. governmentalrestrictions, the Company continues to increase its expansion
    into international markets, including South America, Asia and
    Eastern Europe.



Most of the Company’snon-U.S. subsidiariesand affiliates are based in France, Germany, the United Kingdom,
    the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and, with increased
    emphasis, China, Malaysia, India, Mexico, Brazil and Eastern
    Europe.



Environmental
    Matters



The Company believes its companies’ operations generally
    are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. In a
    few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the
    subject of administrative and legal proceedings with
    governmental agencies or private parties relating to the
    discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where
    necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific
    consent orders to achieve compliance. The Company believes that
    continued compliance will not have a material impact on the
    Company’s financial position and will not require
    significant expenditures or adjustments to reserves.



Employees



The Company had approximately 29,300 employees in
    continuing operations as of December 31, 2009, which was a
    decline of approximately 9% from the prior year end, reflecting
    the Company’s restructuring activities in response to an
    overall global economic slowdown.



Other
    Information



The Company makes available through the “Financial
    Reports” link on its Internet website,http://www.dovercorporation.com,the Company’s annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and any amendments to these reports. The Company posts each of
    these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. The information on the Company’s Internet
    website is not incorporated into thisForm 10-K.



