ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



Overview



Dover Corporation is a diversified global manufacturer focusing on innovative equipment and components, specialty systems, and support services provided through its four major operating segments:  Energy, Engineered Systems, Printing & Identification, and Communication Technologies.  The Company's entrepreneurial business model encourages, promotes, and fosters deep customer engagement, which has lead to Dover's well-established and valued reputation for providing superior customer service and industry-leading product innovation.   Unless the context indicates otherwise, references herein to “Dover,” “the Company,” and words such as “we,” “us,” and “our” include Dover Corporation and its subsidiaries. Dover was incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and became a publicly traded company in 1955. Dover is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois and currently employs approximately37,000people worldwide within its continuing operations.



Our Energy segment provides highly-engineered solutions for the safe and efficient extraction and handling of oil and gas in the drilling, production, and downstream markets. Our Engineered Systems segment is comprised of two platforms, Fluid Solutions and Refrigeration & Industrial, which are industry leaders in the fluids systems, refrigeration and food equipment, and certain other industrial markets. Our Printing & Identification segment provides integrated printing, coding, and dispensing solutions for the consumer goods, food, pharmaceutical, and industrial markets. Our Communication Technologies segment is engaged in the design and manufacture of innovative products and components in the consumer electronics, medical technology, aerospace/defense, and telecom/other markets.



The following table shows the percentage of total revenue and segment earnings generated by each of our four segments for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011:

RevenueSegment Earnings201320122011201320122011Energy26%27%26%36%39%36%Engineered Systems43%42%42%38%35%35%Printing & Identification12%12%14%10%10%11%Communication Technologies19%19%18%16%16%18%



Management Philosophy



Our businesses are committed to operational excellence and to being market leaders as measured by market share, customer service, innovation, profitability, and return on invested capital. Our operating structure of four business segments and two platforms allows for focused acquisition activity, accelerates opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, including global sourcing and supply chain integration, and advances the development of our executive talent. Our segment and executive management set strategic direction, initiatives and goals, provide oversight, allocate and manage capital, are responsible for major acquisitions, and provide other services. We foster an operating culture with high ethical standards, trust, respect, and open communication, to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness.



In addition, we are committed to creating value for our customers, employees, and shareholders through sustainable business practices that protect the environment and developing products that help our customers meet their sustainability goals. Our companies are increasing their focus on efficient energy usage, greenhouse gas reduction, and waste management as they strive to meet the global environmental needs of today and tomorrow.











Company Goals



We are committed to driving shareholder return through three key objectives. First, we are committed to achieving annual organic sales growth over the midterm of 3% to 5%, complemented by acquisition growth of 3% to 5% over the same period. Secondly, we continue to focus on segment margin expansion through productivity initiatives, including supply chain activities, strategic pricing, and portfolio shaping. Lastly, we are committed to generating free cash flow as a percentage of sales of approximately 10% through disciplined capital allocation, strong performance, productivity improvements, and active working capital management. We support these goals through (1) alignment of management compensation with financial objectives, (2) well-defined and actively managed merger and acquisition processes, and (3) talent development programs.



Business Strategy



To achieve our goals, we are focused on execution of the following three key business strategies:



Positioning ourselves for growth



We have aligned our business segments to focus on key-end markets that are well-positioned for future growth. In particular, our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on growth trends in the areas of global energy demand, sustainability, consumer product safety, communications, and emerging economies. For instance, our Communication Technologies segment is positioned to capitalize on growth in hand-held communications (handsets), medical technology, and aerospace/defense, with its complement of micro audio components and communication components serving those markets. Our Energy segment is driven by a growing demand for innovative extraction technologies. The growing demand from emerging economies, plus expanding exploration activity around the globe will provide significant opportunities for this segment. Our Engineered Systems segment combines its engineering technology, unique product advantages, and applications expertise to address market needs and requirements including sustainability, consumer product safety, and growth in emerging economies, while our Printing & Identification segment is responding to the growing requirements for consumer product safety and traceability technologies by providing integrated printing, coding, and identification solutions with a global reach, in the growing markets of fast moving consumer goods and industrial applications.



Capturing the benefits of common ownership



We are committed to operational excellence, and have implemented various productivity initiatives, such as supply chain management, lean manufacturing, and facility consolidations to maximize our efficiency, coupled with workplace safety initiatives to help ensure the health and welfare of our employees. We foster the sharing of best practices throughout the organization. To ensure success, our businesses place strong emphasis on continual quality improvement and new product development to better serve customers and expand into new product and geographic markets. We have also developed regional support centers and shared manufacturing centers in China, Brazil, and India.  Further, we continue to make significant investments in talent development, recognizing that the growth and development of our employees are essential for our continued success.



Disciplined capital allocation



Our businesses generate annual free cash flow of approximately 10% of revenue. We are focused on the most efficient allocation of our capital to maximize investment returns. To do this, we grow and support our existing businesses, with annual investment in capital spending approximating 2.5% of revenue with a focus on internal projects to expand markets, develop products, and boost productivity. We continue to evaluate our portfolio for strategic fit and intend to make additional acquisitions focused on our key growth spaces: consumer electronics, energy, product ID, refrigeration and food equipment, and fluid solutions. We consistently provide shareholder returns by paying dividends, which have increased annually over each of the last 58 years. We will also continue to repurchase our shares per our previously announced share repurchase programs.











Portfolio Development



Acquisitions



Our acquisition program has two key elements. First, we seek to acquire value creating add-on businesses that enhance our existing businesses either through their global reach and customers, or by broadening their product mix. Second, in the right circumstances, we will strategically pursue larger, stand-alone businesses that have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue innovative technologies within our key growth spaces. Over the past three years (


–


), we have spent over

$2.7 billion

to purchase




For more details regarding acquisitions completed over the past two years, seeNote 3. Acquisitionsin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses, as a substantial number of our current businesses operate in relatively mature markets. While we expect to generate annual organic growth of 3% - 4% over a long-term business cycle absent extraordinary economic conditions, sustained organic growth at these levels for individual businesses is difficult to achieve consistently each year. Our success is also dependent on the ability to successfully integrate our acquired businesses within our existing structure. To track post-merger integration and accountability, we utilize an internal tool kit and defined processes to help ensure synergies are realized and value is created, as had been planned when the acquisition was made.



Dispositions



We continually review our portfolio to evaluate whether our businesses continue to be essential contributors to our long-term strategy. Occasionally, we may also make an opportunistic sale of one of our businesses based on specific market conditions and strategic considerations. Accordingly, in an effort to reduce our exposure to cyclical markets and focus on our higher margin growth spaces, during the past three years (2011–2013) we have soldfourbusinesses for aggregate consideration of$604.8 million.  Over the same period, disposals of a few minor non-core divisions of our businesses generated additional proceeds of$8.5 million.  In addition, the Company signed a definitive agreement in 2013 to sell DEK International within the Printing & Identification segment, and expects to complete the sale of this business in the first half of 2014.



The financial position and results of operations for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For more details, seeNote 4. Disposed and Discontinued Operationsin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Spin-Off of Knowles



On May 23, 2013, Dover announced its Board of Directors approved a preliminary plan to spin-off certain of its communication technologies businesses into a stand-alone, publicly-traded company known as Knowles Corporation ("Knowles"). On February 6, 2014, Dover announced that its Board of Directors approved the separation of Knowles from Dover through the pro rata distribution by Dover of 100% of the common stock of Knowles to Dover's stockholders on February 28, 2014. In addition, on February 10, 2014, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission declared Knowles' Registration Statement on Form 10 effective. As a result, the following is expected to occur: (1) the distribution of Knowles' shares would be made on February 28, 2014 to Dover stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 19, 2014, the record date for the distribution, (2) on the distribution date, Dover stockholders will receive one share of Knowles common stock for every two shares of Dover common stock held as of the record date, and (3) following the distribution, Knowles will be an independent, publicly traded









company on the New York Stock Exchange (utilizing ticker symbol "KN") and Dover will retain no ownership interest in Knowles. The distribution has been structured to be tax-free to Dover and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.The results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the businesses to be transferred to Knowles and included in the spin-off are, and will continue to be, presented within Dover's consolidated financial statements as continuing operations within the Communication Technologies segment until the spin-off is complete (which is expected to occur on February 28, 2014), upon which the financial presentation of these businesses will be included within Dover's discontinued operations. Following the spin-off of Knowles, Dover expects to align its segment structure to ensure it is properly organized to execute its future growth plans.



Business Segments



As noted previously, we currently operate through four business segments that are aligned with the key end-markets they serve and comprise our operating and reportable segments: Energy, Engineered Systems, Printing & Identification, and Communication Technologies. For financial information about our segments and geographic areas, seeNote 17. Segment Informationin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.















Energy



Our Energy segment serves the oil, gas, and power generation industries with products that promote efficient and cost-effective drilling, extraction, storage, and movement of oil and gas products, or constitute critical components for power generation equipment. This segment consists of the following lines of business:



•Production– Our businesses serving the production market design and manufacture products and components that facilitate the extraction and movement of fuel from the ground, including steel sucker rods, down-hole rod pumps, progressive cavity pumps and drive systems, plunger lifts, and accessories used in artificial lift applications in oil and gas production; pressure, temperature, and flow monitoring equipment used in oil and gas exploration and production applications; and control valves and instrumentation for oil and gas production. In addition, these businesses manufacture various compressor parts that are  used in the natural gas production, distribution, and oil refining markets; and winches, hoists, gear drives, swing drives, auger drives, slewing ring bearings, hydraulic pump, and electronic monitoring solutions for energy, infrastructure, and recovery markets worldwide.



•Downstream– Our businesses serving the downstream market produce systems and products that support efficient, safe, and environmentally-sensitive transportation and handling of fuel, hazardous liquids, and dry-bulk commodities. Vehicle fuel dispensing products include conventional, vapor recovery, and clean energy (LPG, CNG, and Hydrogen) nozzles, swivels, and breakaways, as well as tank pressure management systems. Products manufactured for the transportation, storage, and processing of hazardous liquid and dry-bulk commodities include relief valves, loading/unloading angle valves, rupture disc devices, actuator systems, level measurement gauges, swivel joints, butterfly valves, lined ball valves, aeration systems, industrial access ports, manholes, hatches, collars, weld rings, and fill covers. In addition, we offer bearings, bearing isolators, seals, and remote condition monitoring systems that are used for rotating machinery applications such as turbo machinery, motors, generators, and compressors used in energy, utility, marine, and other industries.



•Drilling– Our businesses serving the drilling market design and manufacture products that promote efficient and cost-effective drilling, including long-lasting polycrystalline diamond cutters (PDCs) for applications in down-hole drilling tools and quartz pressure transducers and hybrid electronics used in down-hole tools and monitoring devices.



Our Energy segment’s sales are made directly to customers and through various distribution channels. We manufacture our products primarily in North America, and our sales are concentrated in North America with an increasing level of international sales directed largely to Europe, Central and South America, China, the Middle East, and Australia.



Engineered Systems



Our Engineered Systems segment combines its engineering technology, unique product advantages, and applications expertise to address market needs and requirements including sustainability, consumer product safety needs, and growth in emerging economies. To better serve its end-markets, the segment manages its products and services through two core business platforms,     Refrigeration & Industrial and Fluid Solutions, as described below.



Refrigeration & Industrial



The Refrigeration & Industrial platform manufactures products and systems serving the refrigeration and food equipment and other industrial markets, as follows:



•Refrigeration and food equipment– Our businesses manufacture refrigeration systems, refrigeration display cases, walk-in coolers and freezers, specialty glass, commercial glass refrigerator and freezer doors, electrical distribution products and engineering services, commercial foodservice equipment, cook-chill production systems, custom food storage and preparation products, kitchen ventilation systems, conveyer systems, beverage can-making machinery, and packaging machines used for meat, poultry, and other food products. The platform’s refrigeration/food related manufacturing facilities and distributing operations are principally in North America, Europe, and Asia.



The majority of the refrigeration/food systems and machinery that are manufactured or serviced by the Refrigeration & Industrial platform are used by the supermarket industry, “big-box” retail and convenience stores, the commercial/industrial refrigeration industry, institutional and commercial foodservice and food production markets, and beverage can-making industries. The commercial foodservice cooking equipment products serve their markets worldwide through a network of









dealers, distributors, national chain accounts, manufacturer representatives, and a direct sales force with the primary market being North America.



•Other industrial– We also serve the vehicle service, industrial automation, and waste and recycling markets.  Our businesses serving the vehicle service markets provide a wide range of products and services that are utilized in vehicle services, maintenance, washing, repair, and modification. Vehicle lifts and collision equipment are sold through equipment distributors and directly to a wide variety of markets, including independent service and repair shops, collision repair shops, national chains and franchised service facilities, new vehicle dealers, governments, and directly to consumers via the Internet. The businesses also produce 4WD and AWD powertrain systems and accessories for off-road vehicles, which are sold to OEMs and through extensive dealer networks primarily in North America. These other industrial manufacturing operations are located primarily in North and South America, Asia, and Europe.



The businesses in the industrial automation market provide a wide range of modular automation components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, glove ports and manipulators, as well as end-of-arm robotic grippers, slides, and end effectors. These products serve a very broad market including food processing, packaging, paper processing, medical, electronic, automotive, nuclear, and general industrial products. They are produced in North America, Europe, and Asia and are marketed globally on a direct basis to OEMs and through a global dealer and distribution network to industrial end users. We also provide highly engineered hydraulic cylinders and swivels to the North American markets for use in mining and resource recovery, vehicle recovery, materials handling, and various other OEM applications.



Our businesses serving waste and recycling markets provide products and services for the refuse collection industry and for on-site processing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials. Products are sold to municipal customers, national accounts, and independent waste haulers through a network of distributors and directly in certain geographic areas. The on-site waste management and recycling systems include a variety of stationary compactors, wire processing and separation machines, and balers that are manufactured and sold primarily in the United States to distribution centers, malls, stadiums, arenas, office complexes, retail stores, and recycling centers.



Fluid Solutions



The Fluid Solutions platform designs and manufactures pumps, compressors, and chemical proportioning and dispensing products. The pumps and compressors are used to transfer liquid and bulk products and are sold to a wide variety of markets, including the refined fuels, LPG, pulp and paper, wastewater, food/sanitary, military, transportation, and chemical process industries. The pumps include centrifugal, reciprocating (double diaphragm), and rotary pumps that are used in demanding and specialized fluid transfer process applications. The chemical portioning and dispensing systems are used to dilute and dispense concentrated cleaning chemicals and are sold to the food service, health care, supermarket, institutional, school, building service contractor, and industrial markets. In addition, the platform manufactures copper-brazed compact heat exchangers and designs software for heating and cooling substations. Fluid Solutions products are manufactured in the United States, South America, Asia, and Europe and marketed globally through direct channels and a network of distributors.



Printing & Identification



Our Printing & Identification segment is a worldwide supplier of precision marking & coding,  printing, dispensing, soldering and coating equipment, and related consumables and services. The segment serves two broad global end-markets: fast moving consumer goods and industrial.



•Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG)– Our businesses serving this market primarily design and manufacture marking & coding products used for printing variable information (such as date codes and serial numbers) on food, beverage, consumer goods, and pharmaceutical products, capitalizing on expanding food and product safety requirements and growth in emerging markets.



•Industrial– Our products used by the industrial market are primarily marking & coding, bar code & portable printers, and fluid dispensing related products serving a number of industrial end markets including aerospace, cable, military, material packaging, industrial assembly, and medical devices capitalizing on growing industrial-related manufacturing in emerging markets. Additional products include broad line marking solutions leveraged for secondary packaging, such as cartons and









pallets for use in warehouse logistics operations and bar code and portable printers used where on-demand labels/receipts are required.



Printing & Identification’s products are manufactured primarily in the United States, France, China, and India, and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors.



Communication Technologies



Our Communication Technologies segment serves the following major markets: consumer electronics, aerospace/defense, medical technology and telecom/other.



•Consumer electronics– Our businesses serving the consumer electronics market design, manufacture, and assemble micro-acoustic audio input and output components for use principally in personal mobile handsets.



•Aerospace/Defense– Our businesses serving the aerospace/defense markets manufacture precision engineered components and aftermarket parts across a broad array of market applications. This includes the design and manufacture of specialty hydraulics, fasteners, bearings, switches, and filters sold to both original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and as aftermarket products, as well as mechanical and frequency control communication components serving shipboard applications, strategic mission critical parts on key Airborne programs and Command and Control communications, and frequency control components, electromechanical switches, multi-layered capacitors, filters, and quick disconnect couplings.  These businesses also support key space initiatives with critical communication components.



•Medical technology– Our businesses serving the medical technology market manufacture advanced miniaturized receivers and electromechanical components for use in hearing aids, connectors for use in a variety of medical devices and bio processing applications, and specialized components for use in implantable devices and medical equipment.



•Telecom/Other- Our businesses serving these markets manufacture frequency control components for wired and wireless network base station communications that ensure precise signal timing and filters for non-interrupted access across high speed networks.



Communication Technologies’ products are manufactured primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia and are sold globally, directly and through a network of distributors.



Raw Materials



We use a wide variety of raw materials, primarily metals and semi-processed or finished components, which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages or the loss of any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have, a material impact on operating profits. While the required raw materials are generally available, commodity pricing has trended upward over the past few years, particularly for various grades of steel, copper, aluminum, select other commodities, and rare earth metals. Although some cost increases may be recovered through increased prices to customers, our operating results are exposed to such fluctuations. We attempt to control such costs through fixed-price contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global supply chain activities.



Research and Development



Our businesses are encouraged to develop new products as well as to upgrade and improve existing products to satisfy customer needs, expand revenue opportunities domestically and internationally, maintain or extend competitive advantages, improve product reliability, and reduce production costs. During2013, we spent$185.6million for research and development, including qualified engineering costs.  In2012and2011, research and development spending totaled$189.8million and$175.5million, respectively.











Our Communication Technologies and Printing & Identification segments expend significant effort in research and development because the rate of product development by their customers is often quite high.  Our businesses that develop product identification and printing equipment and specialty electronic components for the consumer electronics, medical technology, and datacom/telecom markets believe that their customers expect a continuing rate of product innovation, performance improvement, and reduced costs. The result has been that product life cycles in these markets generally average less than five years with meaningful sales price reductions over that time period.



Our other segments contain many businesses that are also involved in important product improvement initiatives. These businesses also concentrate on working closely with customers on specific applications, expanding product lines and market applications, and continuously improving manufacturing processes. Most of these businesses experience a much more moderate rate of change in their markets and products than is generally experienced by the Communication Technologies and Printing & Identification segments.



Intellectual Property and Intangible Assets



Our businesses own many patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, which have been acquired over a number of years and, to the extent relevant, expire at various times over a number of years. A large portion of our businesses’ intellectual property consists of patents, unpatented technology, and proprietary information constituting trade secrets that we seek to protect in various ways, including confidentiality agreements with employees and suppliers where appropriate. In addition, a significant portion of our intangible assets relate to customer relationships. While our intellectual property and customer relationships are important to our success, the loss or expiration of any of these rights or relationships, or any group of related rights or relationships, is not likely to materially affect our results on a consolidated basis. We believe that our commitment to continuous engineering improvements, new product development, and improved manufacturing techniques, as well as strong sales, marketing, and service efforts, are significant to our general leadership positions in the niche markets we serve.



Seasonality



In general, our businesses, while not strongly seasonal, tend to have stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, particularly those serving the consumer electronics, transportation, construction, waste and recycling, petroleum, commercial refrigeration, and food service markets. Our businesses serving the major equipment markets, such as power generation, chemical, and processing industries, have longer lead times geared to seasonal, commercial, or consumer demands, and tend to delay or accelerate product ordering and delivery to coincide with those market trends that tend to moderate the aforementioned seasonality patterns.



Customers



We serve thousands of customers, no one of which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in2013.  Given our diversity of served markets, customer concentrations are quite varied. Businesses supplying the waste and recycling, agricultural, defense, energy, automotive, commercial refrigeration, handset, and hearing aid industries tend to deal with a few large customers that are significant within those industries. This also tends to be true for businesses supplying the power generation, aerospace, and chemical industries. In the other markets served, there is usually a much lower concentration of customers, particularly where the companies provide a substantial number of products and services applicable to a broad range of end-use applications.



Certain of our businesses, particularly within the Communication Technologies segment, serve the military, space, aerospace, commercial, and telecom infrastructure markets. Their customers include some of the largest businesses in these markets. In addition, many of the OEM customers within the Communication Technologies segment outsource their manufacturing to Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) companies. Other customers include global cell phone and hearing aid manufacturers and many of the largest global EMS companies, particularly in China.



Backlog



Backlog is more relevant to our businesses that produce larger and more sophisticated machines or have long-term government contracts, primarily for the global pump and refrigeration and food equipment markets of our Engineered Systems segment, as well as the aerospace/defense market of our Communication Technologies segment. Our total backlog relating to our continuing operations as ofDecember 31, 2013and2012was$1.6 billionand$1.5 billion, respectively.











Competition



Our competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of our products manufactured and the markets served. In general, most of our businesses are market leaders that compete with only a few companies, and the key competitive factors are customer service, product quality, price, and innovation.  However, as we become increasingly global, we are exposed to more competition. Certain businesses in the Communication Technologies and Printing & Identification segments compete globally against a variety of companies, primarily operating in Europe and East Asia.  A summary of our key competitors by end market within each our segments follows:

SegmentEnd MarketKey CompetitorsEnergyDrillingDeBeers Group (Element Six), Schlumberger Ltd. (MegaDiamond)ProductionWeatherford International Ltd., General Electric (Lufkin) Industries, Paccar Inc.DownstreamDanaher Corp. (Gilbarco Veeder-Root), Franklin Electric, Gardner Denver, Inc. (Emco Wheaton)Engineered SystemsRefrigeration and food systemsHussman Corp., Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration (Kysor/Warren), Manitowoc Company, Illinois Tool WorksOther industrialOshkosh Corp. (McNeilus), Siemens AG (Weiss GmbH), Challenger Lifts, Labrie Enviroquip Group, and numerous othersFluid solutionsIDEX Corp, Alfa Laval, Ingersoll Rand, Danfoss, SPX Corp.Printing & IdentificationFast moving consumer goodsDanaher Corp. (Videojet), Domino PrintingIndustrialDanaher Corp. (Videojet), Domino Printing, Zebra TechnologiesCommunication TechnologiesConsumer electronicsAAC Technologies, GoerTek Inc.Medical technologySonion A/SAerospace/DefenseSmiths Interconnect, SPS TechnologiesTelecom/OtherRakon Ltd., NDK Ltd.



International



Consistent with our strategic focus on positioning our businesses for growth, we continue to increase our expansion into international markets, particularly in developing economies in South America, Asia, and Eastern Europe.



Most of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates are currently based in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and, with increasing emphasis, Australia, Canada, China, Malaysia, India, Mexico, Brazil, and Eastern Europe.



The following table shows annual revenue derived from customers outside the U.S. as a percentage of total annual revenue for each of the last three years, by segment and in total:

% Non-U.S. Revenue by SegmentYears Ended December 31,201320122011Energy35%31%32%Engineered Systems37%37%36%Printing & Identification72%72%74%Communication Technologies75%73%71%Total percentage of revenue derived from customers outside of the U.S.48%46%47%



Our percentage of revenue derived from customers outside of the U.S. increased slightly in 2013 as compared to 2012 as a result  of improvement in Communication Technologies in the Asian markets and Energy's geographic expansion programs in the Middle East and Australia.











Our international operations are subject to certain risks, such as price and exchange rate fluctuations and non-U.S. governmental restrictions, which are discussed further in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  For additional details regarding our non-U.S. revenue and the geographic allocation of the assets of our continuing operations, seeNote 17. Segment Informationto the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Environmental Matters



Our operations are governed by a variety of international, national, state, and local environmental laws. We are committed to continued compliance and believe our operations generally are in substantial compliance with these laws. In a few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with governmental agencies or private parties relating to the discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific consent orders to achieve compliance.



In 2010, we developed and implemented a process to conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions.  Since then, we have evaluated our climate change risks and opportunities and have developed an energy and climate change strategy that includes clearly defined goals and objectives, along with prioritized programs and projects for achieving energy use and greenhouse gas emissions reductions. We have committed to reducing our overall energy and greenhouse gas intensity indexed to net revenue by 20% from 2010 to 2020.  We also participated as a respondent in the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project.



All of our segments are investigating the energy efficiencies related to their operations and the use of their products and services by customers. In some instances, our businesses may be able to help customers reduce some of their energy needs. Increased demand for energy-efficient products, based on a variety of drivers (including, but not limited to, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) could result in increased sales for a number of our businesses.



There have been no material effects upon our earnings and competitive position resulting from compliance with laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. We are aware of a number of existing or upcoming regulatory initiatives intended to reduce emissions in geographies where our manufacturing and warehouse/distribution facilities are located and have evaluated the potential impact of these regulations on our businesses. We anticipate that direct impacts from regulatory actions will not be significant in the short- to medium-term. We expect the regulatory impacts associated with climate change regulation would be primarily indirect and would result in “pass through” costs from energy suppliers, suppliers of raw materials, and other services related to our operations.



Employees



We had approximately37,000employees in our ongoing operations as ofDecember 31, 2013, which was an increase of6%from the prior year end.  The increase is primarily the result of recent acquisitions, slightly offset by headcount reduction  programs in certain businesses.



Other Information



We make available through the “Financial Reports” link on our Internet website, http://www.dovercorporation.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports. We post each of these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our Internet website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.













