ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



Overview



Dover Corporation is a diversified global manufacturer delivering innovative equipment and components, specialty systems and support services through four major operating segments: Energy, Engineered Systems, Fluids, and Refrigeration & Food Equipment. The Company's entrepreneurial business model encourages, promotes, and fosters deep customer engagement and collaboration, which has led to Dover's well-established and valued reputation for providing superior customer service and industry-leading product innovation. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references herein to "Dover," "the Company," and words such as "we," "us," and "our" include Dover Corporation and its subsidiaries. Dover was incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and became a publicly traded company in 1955. Dover is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois and currently employs approximately27,000people worldwide within its continuing operations.



On February 28, 2014, the Company completed the separation of Knowles Corporation ("Knowles") from Dover through the pro rata distribution of 100% of the common stock of Knowles to Dover's stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 19, 2014. Each Dover shareholder received one share of Knowles common stock for every two shares of Dover common stock held as of the record date. As a result, Knowles became an independent, publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and Dover retains no ownership interest in Knowles. The distribution was structured to be tax-free to Dover and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.



In the first quarter of 2014, Dover announced the realignment of its businesses into a new segment structure, consisting of four segments and organized around its key end markets to better focus on growth strategies. The new structure is designed also to provide increased opportunities to leverage Dover's scale and capitalize on productivity initiatives. Dover's four segments are as follows:



•Our Energy segment, serving the Drilling & Production,  Bearings & Compression, and Automation end markets, is a provider of customer-driven solutions and services for safe and efficient production and processing of oil, natural gas liquids, and gas worldwide, and has a strong presence in the bearings and compression components markets.



•Our Engineered Systems segment is comprised of two platforms, Printing & Identification and Industrials, and is focused on the design, manufacture and service of critical equipment and components serving the printing and  identification, vehicle service, environmental solutions and industrial end markets.



•Our Fluids segment, serving the Fluid Transfer and Pumps end markets, is focused on the safe handling of critical fluids across the retail fueling, chemical, hygienic, and industrial end markets.



•Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment, serving the Refrigeration and Food Equipment end markets, is a provider of innovative and energy efficient equipment and systems serving the commercial refrigeration and food service industries.



The following table shows the percentage of total revenue and segment earnings generated by each of our four segments for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012:

RevenueSegment Earnings201420132012201420132012Energy26%26%27%34%35%39%Engineered Systems31%30%32%29%27%27%Fluids18%18%17%19%17%15%Refrigeration & Food Equipment25%26%24%18%21%19%











Management Philosophy



Our businesses are committed to operational excellence and to being market leaders as measured by market share, customer service, growth, profitability, and return on invested capital. Our operating structure of four business segments and two platforms allows for focused acquisition activity, accelerates opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, including global sourcing and supply chain integration, and advances the development of our executive talent. Our segment and executive management set strategic direction, initiatives and goals, provide oversight, allocate and manage capital, are responsible for major acquisitions, and provide other services. We foster an operating culture with high ethical standards, trust, respect, and open communication, to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness.



In addition, we are committed to creating value for our customers, employees, and shareholders through sustainable business practices that protect the environment and developing products that help our customers meet their sustainability goals. We have accelerated our efforts and processes around innovation, focusing on technologies which create tangible value for our customers.

Our companies are increasing their focus on efficient energy usage, greenhouse gas reduction, and waste management as they strive to meet the global environmental needs of today and tomorrow.



Company Goals



We are committed to driving shareholder return through three key objectives. First, we are committed to achieving annual organic sales growth over the midterm of 2% to 4%, complemented by acquisition growth. Secondly, we continue to focus on segment margin expansion through productivity initiatives, including supply chain activities, strategic pricing, and portfolio shaping. Lastly, we are committed to generating free cash flow as a percentage of sales greater than 10% through disciplined capital allocation, strong performance, productivity improvements, and active working capital management. We support these goals through (1) alignment of management compensation with financial objectives, (2) well-defined and actively managed merger and acquisition processes, and (3) talent development programs.



Business Strategy



To achieve our goals, we are focused on execution of the following three key business strategies:



Positioning ourselves for growth



We have aligned our business segments to focus on the needs of customers in key-end markets that are well-positioned for future growth. In particular, our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on growth trends in the areas of global energy demand, sustainability, consumer product safety, and emerging economies. For instance, our Energy segment is positioned to continue expansion in high growth spaces, accelerate capabilities to drive international growth, and increase investment in innovation and technology to drive customer productivity and cash flow. Our Engineered Systems segment combines its engineering technology, unique product advantages, and applications expertise to address market needs and requirements including sustainability, consumer product safety, and growth in emerging economies. The Fluids segment is focused on accelerated growth within the chemical/plastics, retail fueling, fluid transfer, industrial, and hygienic markets as well as globalizing brands across geographies while expanding sales channels and engineering support. Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment is responding to energy efficiency, sustainability and food safety as a result of government regulations, principally in the U.S. and Europe.



Capturing the benefits of common ownership



We are committed to operational excellence, and have implemented various productivity initiatives, such as supply chain management, lean manufacturing, and facility consolidations to maximize our efficiency, coupled with workplace safety initiatives to help ensure the health and welfare of our employees. We foster the sharing of best practices throughout the organization. To ensure success, our businesses place strong emphasis on continual quality improvement and new product development to better serve customers and expand into new product and geographic markets. We have also developed regional support centers and shared manufacturing centers in the U.S., China, Brazil, and India.  Further, we continue to make significant investments in talent development, recognizing that the growth and development of our employees are essential for our continued success.











Disciplined capital allocation



Our businesses generate annual free cash flow of approximately 10% of revenue. We are focused on the most efficient allocation of our capital to maximize investment returns. To do this, we grow and support our existing businesses, with annual investment in capital spending approximating 2 - 2.5% of revenue with a focus on internal projects to expand markets, develop products, and boost productivity. We continue to evaluate our portfolio for strategic fit and intend to make additional acquisitions focused on our key growth spaces: energy, product ID, industrials, refrigeration and food equipment, and fluid solutions. We consistently provide shareholder returns by paying dividends, which have increased annually over each of the last 59 years. We will also continue to repurchase our shares consistent with our previously announced share repurchase programs.



Portfolio Development



Acquisitions



Our acquisition program has two key elements. First, we seek to acquire value creating add-on businesses that enhance our existing businesses either through their global reach and customers, or by broadening their product mix. Second, in the right circumstances, we will strategically pursue larger, stand-alone businesses that have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue innovative technologies within our key growth spaces. Over the past three years (


–


), we have spent over

$2.2 billion

to purchase


businesses that strategically fit within our business model. In the fourth quarter of 2014 we acquired Accelerated Companies for approximately

$435.7 million

. Accelerated is an integrated provider of equipment, parts, and services for handling fluids associated with oil and gas production and expands our artificial lift footprint within our Energy Segment. In 2013, we acquired 10 businesses for an aggregate consideration of

$322.8 million

, including Finder Pompe, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2013 for approximately $142.2 million to expand our Fluids segment. In 2012, we spent approximately $603.2 million to acquire Anthony International, a leading manufacturer of specialty glass, commercial glass refrigerator and freezer doors, lighting systems, and display equipment. The acquisition of Anthony expands our portfolio of industry-leading technology in the refrigeration space and provides access to new geographies and new markets, most notably the convenience store market. Recent significant acquisitions have also included Maag Pump Systems, a European acquisition for our Fluids segment, which we acquired in the first quarter of 2012 for approximately $265.8 million and  Production Control Services, acquired in the second quarter of 2012 for consideration totaling $220.0 million, which added to our artificial lift technology in our Energy segment.



For more details regarding acquisitions completed over the past two years, seeNote 3 Acquisitionsin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses, as a substantial number of our current businesses operate in relatively mature markets. While we expect to generate annual organic growth of 2% - 5% over a long-term business cycle absent extraordinary economic conditions, sustained organic growth at these levels for individual businesses is difficult to achieve consistently each year. Our success is also dependent on the ability to successfully integrate our acquired businesses within our existing structure. To track post-merger integration and accountability, we utilize an internal tool kit and defined processes to help ensure synergies are realized and value is created, as had been planned when the acquisition was made.



Dispositions



We continually review our portfolio to evaluate whether our businesses continue to be essential contributors to our long-term strategy. Occasionally, we may also make an opportunistic sale of one of our businesses based on specific market conditions and strategic considerations. Accordingly, in an effort to reduce our exposure to cyclical markets and focus on our higher margin growth spaces, during the past three years (2012–2014) we have soldtwobusinesses for aggregate consideration of$267.8 millionin addition to the Knowles spin-off as discussed below. Furthermore, the Company has classified Datamax O'Neil and Sargent Aerospace as held for sale as of December 31, 2014 and expects to complete the sale of these businesses in the first and second quarters of 2015, respectively.



The financial position and results of operations for these businesses have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For more details, seeNote 4 Disposed and Discontinued Operationsin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.











Spin-Off of Knowles



On February 28, 2014, the Company completed the separation of Knowles Corporation ("Knowles") from Dover through the pro rata distribution of 100% of the common stock of Knowles to Dover's stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 19, 2014. Each Dover shareholder received one share of Knowles common stock for every two shares of Dover common stock held as of the record date. As a result, Knowles became an independent, publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and Dover retains no ownership interest in Knowles. The distribution was structured to be tax-free to Dover and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Following the spin-off of Knowles, Dover re-aligned its segment structure to ensure it is properly organized to execute its future growth plans.



Business Segments



As noted previously, we currently operate through four business segments that are aligned with the key end markets they serve and comprise our operating and reportable segments: Energy, Engineered Systems, Fluids, and Refrigeration & Food Equipment. For financial information about our segments and geographic areas, seeNote 17 Segment Informationin the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Energy



Our Energy segment serves the Drilling & Production, Bearings & Compression, and Automation end markets. This segment is a provider of customer driven solutions and services for safe and efficient production and processing of oil, natural gas liquids, and gas worldwide. This segment consists of the following lines of business:



•Drilling & Production– Our businesses serving the drilling market design and manufacture products that promote efficient and cost-effective drilling, including long-lasting polycrystalline diamond cutters (PDCs) for applications in down-hole drilling tools. Our businesses serving the production market design and manufacture products and components that facilitate the extraction and movement of fuel from the ground, including steel sucker rods, down-hole rod pumps, electric submersible pumps, progressive cavity pumps and drive systems, and plunger lifts.  In addition, these businesses manufacture winches, hoists, gear drives, swing drives, auger drives, slewing ring bearings, hydraulic pump, and electronic monitoring solutions for energy, infrastructure, and recovery markets worldwide.



•Bearings & Compression– These businesses manufacture various compressor parts that are used in the natural gas production, distribution, and oil refining markets. In addition, we offer bearings, bearing isolators, seals and remote condition monitoring systems that are used for rotating machinery applications such as turbo machinery, motors, generators and compressors used in energy, utility, marine and other industries.



•Automation -These businesses design and manufacture products that promote efficient drilling and production of oil and gas  including quartz pressure transducers and hybrid electronics used in down-hole tools and monitoring devices, chemical injection and metering pumps, automated pump controllers, rod pumping optimization software, diagnostic instruments and sensors for reciprocating machinery, control valves and instrumentation; and pressure, temperature, and flow monitoring equipment.



Our Energy segment’s sales are made directly to customers and through various distribution channels. We manufacture our products primarily in North America, and our sales are concentrated in North America with an increasing level of international sales directed largely to Europe, Australia, and Asia.



Engineered Systems



Our Engineered Systems segment is focused on the design, manufacture and service of critical equipment and components serving the printing & identification, vehicle service, waste handling, and select niche industrial end markets. To better serve its end markets, the segment manages its products and services through two core business platforms, Printing & Identification and Industrials, as described below.



•Printing & Identification -The Printing & Identification platform is a worldwide supplier of precision marking & coding, digital textile, soldering and dispensing equipment, and related consumables and services. Our businesses serving this market primarily design and manufacture marking & coding products used for printing variable information









(such as date codes and serial numbers) on fast moving consumer goods, capitalizing on expanding food and product safety requirements and growth in emerging markets. In addition, our business serving the textile market is benefiting from a significant shift from analog to digital printing, resulting from shorter runs and more complex fashion designs, as well as increasing regulatory and environmental standards.



•Industrials -The businesses in this platform serve the vehicle service, industrial automation, and waste and recycling markets. Our businesses serving the vehicle service markets provide a wide range of products and services that are utilized in vehicle, maintenance, repair, and modification.



The businesses in the industrial automation market provide a wide range of modular automation components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, glove ports and manipulators, as well as end-of-arm robotic grippers, slides, and end effectors. These products serve a very broad market including food processing, packaging, paper processing, medical, electronic, automotive, nuclear, and general industrial products.



Our businesses serving waste and recycling markets provide products and services for the refuse collection industry and for on-site processing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials. Products are sold to municipal customers, national accounts, and independent waste haulers through a network of distributors and directly in certain geographic areas.



Fluids

Our Fluids segment is focused on the safe handling of critical fluids across the retail fueling, chemical, hygienic, and industrial markets. The segment serves two broad global end markets: Fluid Transfer and Pumps.



•Fluid Transfer– Providing fully integrated fluid handling solutions from refineries and chemical-processing plants through point-to-point transfers, transportation, and delivery to the final point of consumption at retail and commercial fueling operations around the globe. This end market also specializes in the manufacturing of connectors for use in a variety of bio-processing applications. We strive to optimize safety, efficiency, reliability, and environmental sustainability through innovative fluid handling and information management solutions.



•Pumps– The pumps and compressors are used to transfer liquid and bulk products and are sold to a wide variety of markets, including the refined fuels, LPG, food/sanitary, transportation, and chemical process industries. The pumps include reciprocating pumps that are used in demanding and specialized fluid transfer process applications.



Fluids' products are manufactured primarily in the United States, Europe, and China, and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors.



Refrigeration & Food Equipment



Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment is a provider of innovative and energy efficient equipment and systems serving the commercial refrigeration and food service industries.



•Refrigeration–  Our businesses manufacture refrigeration systems, refrigeration display cases, walk-in coolers and freezers, specialty glass, commercial glass refrigerator and freezer doors, and brazed heat exchangers used in industrial and climate control.



•Food Equipment– Our businesses manufacture electrical distribution products and engineering services, commercial food service equipment, cook-chill production systems, custom food storage and preparation products, kitchen ventilation systems, conveyer systems, beverage can-making machinery, and packaging machines used for meat, poultry, and other food products.



The majority of the refrigeration/food systems and machinery that are manufactured or serviced by the Refrigeration & Food Equipment platforms are used by the supermarket industry, “big-box” retail and convenience stores, the commercial/industrial refrigeration industry, institutional and commercial foodservice and food production markets, and beverage can-making









industries. Refrigeration & Food Equipment's products are manufactured primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia and are sold globally, directly and through a network of distributors.



Raw Materials



We use a wide variety of raw materials, primarily metals and semi-processed or finished components, which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages or the loss of any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have, a material impact on operating profits. While the required raw materials are generally available, commodity pricing has trended upward over the past few years, particularly for various grades of steel, copper, aluminum, and select other commodities. Although some cost increases may be recovered through increased prices to customers, our operating results are exposed to such fluctuations. We attempt to control such costs through fixed-price contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global supply chain activities.



Research and Development



Our businesses are encouraged to develop new products as well as to upgrade and improve existing products to satisfy customer needs, expand revenue opportunities domestically and internationally, maintain or extend competitive advantages, improve product reliability, and reduce production costs. During2014, we spent$118.4million for research and development, including qualified engineering costs. In2013and2012, research and development spending totaled$117.2million and$123.6million, respectively.



Our Engineered Systems segment expends significant effort in research and development because the rate of product development by their customers is often quite high. Our businesses that develop product identification and printing equipment believe that their customers expect a continuing rate of product innovation, performance improvement, and reduced costs. The result has been that product life cycles in these markets generally average less than five years with meaningful sales price reductions over that time period.



Our other segments contain many businesses that are also involved in important product improvement initiatives. These businesses also concentrate on working closely with customers on specific applications, expanding product lines and market applications, and continuously improving manufacturing processes. Most of these businesses experience a much more moderate rate of change in their markets and products than is generally experienced by the Engineered Systems segment.



Intellectual Property and Intangible Assets



Our businesses own many patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, which have been acquired over a number of years and, to the extent relevant, expire at various times over a number of years. A large portion of our businesses’ intellectual property consists of patents, unpatented technology, and proprietary information constituting trade secrets that we seek to protect in various ways, including confidentiality agreements with employees and suppliers where appropriate. In addition, a significant portion of our intangible assets relate to customer relationships. While our intellectual property and customer relationships are important to our success, the loss or expiration of any of these rights or relationships, or any group of related rights or relationships, is not likely to materially affect our results on a consolidated basis. We believe that our commitment to continuous engineering improvements, new product development, and improved manufacturing techniques, as well as strong sales, marketing, and service efforts, are significant to our general leadership positions in the niche markets we serve.



Seasonality



In general, our businesses, while not strongly seasonal, tend to have stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, particularly those serving the transportation, construction, waste and recycling, petroleum, commercial refrigeration, and food service markets. Our businesses serving the major equipment markets, such as power generation, chemical, and processing industries, have longer lead times geared to seasonal, commercial, or consumer demands, and tend to delay or accelerate product ordering and delivery to coincide with those market trends that tend to moderate the aforementioned seasonality patterns.



Customers



We serve thousands of customers, no one of which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in2014. Given our diversity of served markets, customer concentrations are quite varied. Businesses supplying the waste and recycling,









agricultural, defense, energy, automotive, and commercial refrigeration industries tend to deal with a few large customers that are significant within those industries. This also tends to be true for businesses supplying the power generation, aerospace, and chemical industries. In the other markets served, there is usually a much lower concentration of customers, particularly where the companies provide a substantial number of products and services applicable to a broad range of end-use applications.



Backlog



Backlog is more relevant to our businesses that produce larger and more sophisticated machines or have long-term contracts, primarily for the Refrigeration and Food Equipment markets of our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment. Our total backlog relating to our continuing operations as ofDecember 31, 2014and2013was$1.2 billionfor both periods.



Competition



Our competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of our products manufactured and the markets served. In general, most of our businesses are market leaders that compete with only a few companies, and the key competitive factors are customer service, product quality, price, and innovation. However, as we become increasingly global, we are exposed to more competition. A summary of our key competitors by end market within each our segments follows:

SegmentEnd MarketKey CompetitorsEnergyDrilling & Production /AutomationDeBeers Group (Element Six), Schlumberger Ltd.,Weatherford International Ltd., General Electric (Lufkin), Baker Hughes, BORETS, and NovometBearings & CompressionCompression Products International, Hoerbiger Holdings AG, John Crane, KingsburyEngineered SystemsPrinting & IdentificationDanaher Corp. (Videojet), Domino PrintingIndustrialsOshkosh Corp. (McNeilus), Siemens AG (Weiss GmbH), Challenger Lifts, Labrie Enviroquip Group, and numerous othersFluidsFluid TransferDanaher Corp. (Gilbarco Veeder-Root), Franklin Electric, Gardner Denver, Inc. (Emco Wheaton)PumpsIDEX Corp, Ingersoll Rand, ITT, SPX Corp.Refrigeration & Food EquipmentRefrigerationHussman Corp., Lennox International (Kysor/Warren), Alfa LavalFood EquipmentManitowoc Company, Illinois Tool, Middleby



International



Consistent with our strategic focus on positioning our businesses for growth, we continue to increase our expansion into international markets, particularly in developing economies in South America, Asia, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe.



Most of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates are currently based in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and, with increasing emphasis, Australia, Canada, China, Malaysia, India, Mexico, Brazil, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East.











The following table shows annual revenue derived from customers outside the U.S. as a percentage of total annual revenue for each of the last three years, by segment and in total:

% Non-U.S. Revenue by SegmentYears Ended December 31,201420132012Energy28%33%30%Engineered Systems48%47%48%Fluids53%51%47%Refrigeration & Food Equipment35%36%35%Total percentage of revenue derived from customers outside of the U.S.40%41%40%



Our international operations are subject to certain risks, such as price and exchange rate fluctuations and non-U.S. governmental restrictions, which are discussed further in "Item 1A. Risk Factors."  For additional details regarding our non-U.S. revenue and the geographic allocation of the assets of our continuing operations, seeNote 17 Segment Informationto the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



Environmental Matters



Our operations are governed by a variety of international, national, state, and local environmental laws. We are committed to continued compliance and believe our operations generally are in substantial compliance with these laws. In a few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with governmental agencies or private parties relating to the discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific consent orders to achieve compliance.



In 2010, we developed and implemented a process to conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions.  Since then, we have evaluated our climate change risks and opportunities and have developed an energy and climate change strategy that includes clearly defined goals and objectives, along with prioritized programs and projects for achieving energy use and greenhouse gas emissions reductions. We have committed to reducing our overall energy and greenhouse gas intensity indexed to net revenue by 20% from 2010 to 2020. We also participated as a respondent in the 2013 Carbon Disclosure Project.



All of our segments are investigating the energy efficiencies related to their operations and the use of their products and services by customers. In some instances, our businesses may be able to help customers reduce some of their energy needs. Increased demand for energy-efficient products, based on a variety of drivers (including, but not limited to, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) could result in increased sales for a number of our businesses.



There have been no material effects upon our earnings and competitive position resulting from our compliance with laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. We are aware of a number of existing or upcoming regulatory initiatives intended to reduce emissions in geographies where our manufacturing and warehouse/distribution facilities are located and have evaluated the potential impact of these regulations on our businesses. We anticipate that direct impacts from regulatory actions will not be significant in the short- to medium-term. We expect the regulatory impacts associated with climate change regulation would be primarily indirect and would result in "pass through" costs from energy suppliers, suppliers of raw materials, and other services related to our operations.



Employees



We had approximately27,000employees in our ongoing operations as ofDecember 31, 2014.



Other Information



We make available through the "Financial Reports" link on our Internet website, http://www.dovercorporation.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports. We post each of these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our Internet website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.











