ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We prepare our financial statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on
forward-looking information, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report.

Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com.
The information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

General Description

Aflac
Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing
management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates
in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac’s policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, Aflac U.S. markets and administers group products through
Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), referred to as Aflac Group Insurance. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business.

We believe Aflac is the world’s leading underwriter of individually issued policies marketed at worksites. We offer voluntary insurance
policies in Japan and the United States that provide a layer of financial protection against income and asset loss. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells voluntary supplemental
insurance products, including cancer plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells voluntary supplemental insurance products
including loss-of-income products (life and short-term disability plans) and products designed to protect individuals from depletion of assets (hospital indemnity, fixed-benefit dental, vision care, accident, cancer, critical illness/ critical care,
and hospital intensive care plans).

We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several
U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan’s revenues, including realized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, accounted for 75% of the Company’s total revenues in 2010, 73% in 2009 and 72% in 2008. The percentage of the
Company’s total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 86% at December 31, 2010, and 85% at December 31, 2009. For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Results of Operations

For
information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Foreign Currency Translation

For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on
our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Market Risks of Financial Instruments – Currency Risk subsections of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Insurance Premiums

The
growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were $18.1 billion in 2010, $16.6 billion







in 2009, and $14.9 billion in 2008. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac’s insurance business for the years ended December 31.



(In millions)201020092008Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$17,990$17,550$14,370New sales, including conversions2,9352,7632,666Change in unprocessed new sales(73)(92)(100)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(2,226)(2,207)(1,969)Other1512032Foreign currency translation adjustment1,739(144)2,551Annualized premiums in force, end of year$20,380$17,990$17,550

Insurance – Japan

We translate Aflac Japan’s annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized
premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31.



In DollarsIn Yen(In millions of dollars and billions of yen)201020092008201020092008Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$13,034$12,761$9,8601,2001,1621,126New sales, including conversions1,5541,3101,115136122115Change in unprocessed new sales(73)(92)(100)(6)(9)(10)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(766)(737)(593)(67)(69)(61)Other(80)(64)(72)(7)(6)(8)Foreign currency translation adjustment1,739(144)2,551000Annualized premiums in force, end of year$15,408$13,034$12,7611,2561,2001,162

For further information
regarding Aflac Japan’s financial results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the Aflac Japan subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance
– U.S.

The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended
December 31.



(In millions)201020092008Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$4,956$4,789$4,510New sales, including conversions1,3821,4531,551Premiums lapsed(1,460)(1,471)(1,376)Other95185104Annualized premiums in force, end of year$4,973$4,956$4,789

For further information
regarding Aflac’s U.S. financial results and sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – Japan

Aflac Japan’s insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed
under Japan’s national health insurance system. Changes in Japan’s economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan’s national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese consumers,
who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products.







Aflac Japan’s product portfolio has expanded beyond traditional health-related products to
include more life products. Some of the life products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Some plans, such as our WAYS product, have features that
allow policyholders to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. In 2009, we introduced a new child endowment product, which offers a death benefit until the child reaches
age 18. It also pays a lump-sum benefit at the time of the child’s entry into high school, as well as an educational annuity for each of the four years during his or her college education. We linked the marketing of our child endowment product
to a new government subsidy that was first paid in June 2010 to families with children age 15 and younger. We believe that traditional life insurance products, like our child endowment plan, provide further opportunities for us to sell our third
sector cancer and medical products.

Aflac Japan’s stand-alone medical product, EVER, offers a basic level of hospitalization
coverage with an affordable premium. Since its initial introduction in 2002, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings that appeal to specific types of Japanese consumers. In August 2009, we introduced a new generation of our popular EVER
product, the most notable changes being an enhanced surgical benefit and gender-specific premium rates. We believe that there is an attractive market for this type of medical product in Japan. In June 2010, we introduced a revision to Gentle EVER,
our non-standard medical product. This new product offers more benefits than the original non-standard medical product that we began offering in 2007, and we believe it will continue to meet the needs of certain consumers who cannot qualify for our
base EVER plan. We continue to believe that the entire medical category will remain an important part of our product portfolio in Japan.

The cancer insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer and a fixed daily benefit for
hospitalization and outpatient services related to cancer as well as surgical, convalescent and terminal care benefits. Our Cancer Forte product offers additional benefits, including payment of outpatient benefits for 60 days (compared with 30 days
for previous plans), payment of an annuity from the second year through the fifth year after initial diagnosis of cancer, and “Premier Support,” where Aflac arranges for a third party to provide policyholders with counseling and doctor
referral services upon their cancer diagnosis. For consumers who had the earlier cancer insurance product, we introduced a special bridge policy in 2008 that allows existing policyholders to upgrade their coverage to that of Cancer Forte.

In June 2010, we introduced a product called Corsage, which is a female-specific rider to our cancer insurance product. In Japan, young
women are more likely to suffer from cancer than young men. Corsage provides surgery benefits that address the high cost of treating female-specific cancers. As the number one provider of cancer insurance in Japan, we believe this new product will
further strengthen our brand, and most importantly, provide valuable benefits to consumers who are looking for solutions to cancer-related costs.

We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – U.S.

We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Most
of our U.S. policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, we started to market and administer group insurance products in 2009.

Our individually issued policies are portable and pay regardless of other insurance. Benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders; therefore, they have the opportunity to use this cash to help with expenses
of their choosing. Our individually issued health insurance plans are guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 70 for short-term disability policies). We cannot cancel guaranteed-renewable coverage, but we can increase
premium rates on existing policies on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis by class of policy in response to adverse experience. Any premium rate increases are subject to state regulatory approval. We have had minimal rate increase activity in the
last five years.

Our group insurance policies are underwritten on a group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue. This
coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract.







Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis. Short-term
disability policies provide disability benefits with a variety of elimination and benefit period options. The longest such benefit period offered is two years.

Aflac U.S. offers term and whole-life coverage sold through payroll deduction at the worksite on both an individual and group basis and various term and whole-life individual policies on a direct basis.

Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Our hospital indemnity products provide fixed daily benefits
for hospitalization due to accident or sickness. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available. Our sickness indemnity plan provides a fixed daily benefit for
hospitalization due to sickness and fixed amounts for physician services for accident or sickness. This plan is offered on an individually underwritten basis.

Aflac U.S. offers fixed-benefit dental coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies provide various levels of benefits for dental procedures, including checkups and cleanings. Plan features
include fixed benefits without deductibles, network restrictions, or annual rate reviews.

Aflac U.S. also offers
Vision NowSM, an individually issued policy which provides benefits for
serious eye health conditions and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits.

Aflac
U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment
and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. In addition, other benefits such as short-term disability are available as riders.

Aflac U.S. offers cancer coverage on an individually underwritten basis. Our U.S. cancer plans are designed to provide
insurance benefits for medical and nonmedical costs that are not covered by major medical insurance. Benefits include a first-occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal cancer is first diagnosed; a fixed amount for each day an
insured is hospitalized for cancer treatment; fixed amounts for radiation, chemotherapy and surgery; and a wellness benefit applicable toward certain diagnostic tests. Our Maximum Difference®individually issued cancer plan incorporates coverage for medical advances in cancer prevention, diagnosis, treatment and the many new ways cancer patients may now
receive their care. Maximum Difference allows customization of coverage to fit varying needs and budgets.

Aflac U.S. offers critical
illness/critical care policies on both an individual and group basis. Aflac U.S. offers critical illness plans, which pay lump-sum benefits for critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke, or even cancer, on both a group and individual basis.
These are available with lump sum amounts ranging between $5,000 and $100,000. Aflac U.S. also offers a critical care (formerly called specified health event) policy that pays a combination of lump-sum benefits and ongoing treatment benefits for
critical illnesses (except cancer).

Aflac U.S. also offers individually issued hospital intensive care plans, which pay benefits for
intensive care unit treatment in a hospital.

For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. products and composition of sales, see the
Aflac U.S. subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution – Japan

The traditional channels through which we have sold our products are independent corporate agencies, individual agencies and affiliated corporate
agencies. The independent corporate agencies and individual agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at a vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents’ activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with
customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Independent corporate agencies and individual agencies contributed 51% of new annualized premium sales in 2010 and 55% in both 2009 and 2008. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed
when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees, suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites. Affiliated corporate agencies contributed 31% of new annualized







premium sales in 2010, compared with 35% in 2009 and 36% in 2008. During 2010, we recruited approximately 4,800 new sales agencies. As of December 31, 2010, Aflac Japan was represented by
more than 19,600 sales agencies, with more than 115,400 licensed sales associates employed by those agencies at such date. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan’s high commissions, superior products, customer
service and strong brand image.

We have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974. However, December
2007 marked the first time it was permissible for banks to sell our type of insurance products to their customers. By the end of 2010, we had agreements with 364 banks, approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan, to sell our products.
We have significantly more banks selling our third sector insurance products than any of our competitors. We believe our long-standing and strong relationships within the Japanese banking sector, along with our strategic preparations, have proven to
be an advantage as this channel opened up for our products. Banks contributed 15% of Aflac Japan new annualized premium sales in 2010, compared with 6% in 2009 and 3% in 2008.

We continue to reach consumers through our strategic marketing alliance with Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). We believe our alliance has been one of the most successful partnerships in the
insurance industry since it was first launched in 2001. Dai-ichi Life contributed 3% of Aflac Japan new annualized premium sales in 2010, compared with 4% in 2009 and 7% in 2008.

For additional information on Aflac Japan’s distribution, see the Aflac Japan subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution – U.S.

Our U.S. sales
force comprises sales associates and brokers who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance. Sales associates and brokers are paid commissions based on first-year and
renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, district, regional and state sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Administrative
personnel in Georgia, New York, Nebraska, and South Carolina handle policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims.

We concentrate on marketing our insurance products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals through employment, trade and other
associations. Historically, our policies have been individually underwritten with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac’s individual policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage
upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized billing. With our brokerage sales expansion and the
purchase of CAIC, now branded as Aflac Group Insurance, in 2009, we are now able to offer group voluntary insurance products desired by many large employers. These products are sold on a group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue.
This coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract. Worksite marketing enables sales associates and brokers to reach a
greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business.

During the
past several years, we have enhanced and increased the size of our traditional distribution system. We recruited more than 22,100 new sales associates in 2010, resulting in more than 72,500 licensed sales associates at December 31, 2010. To
enhance our recruiting results, we have amended the bonus structure for our state and regional coordinators from one that was based entirely on sales results to a structure that incorporates a people development component. We have also initiated a
national recruiting contest that incentivizes producer recruitment. In addition, we provide a recruiting workshop that focuses on improving coordinator productivity by emphasizing candidate sourcing, interviewing, and contract acceptance. However,
increasing our sales force means more than just recruiting people. We also focus on growing the number of average weekly producers, which measures high-quality, consistent, capable producers who make solid, consistent contributions to sales.

New sales associates participate in our New Associate Training Cycle, a training program that combines classroom
instruction and online learning throughAflac University®with field training. The New Associate Training







Cycle also includes LEASE training (Larger Earnings by Acquiring Smaller Employers), which helps new sales associates jumpstart their sales careers with an easily transferable guide for
approaching smaller businesses.

In addition to training sales associates, we extend our training initiatives to both new and veteran
sales force management. Sales associates who exhibit leadership potential are invited to participate in our national Coordinator in Training (CIT) program. The CIT program concentrates on developing potential leaders’ skills so they have a
better chance to succeed as a district sales coordinator, the first level of Aflac’s sales force management. For district, regional, and state sales coordinators (listed in order from first level to highest level of sales management), we have
refined and expanded the use of leadership development programs. We believe our efforts to increase the size and capability of our field force will translate into a higher proportion of successful producing sales associates in the future.

In addition to our established training programs, we conduct an annual Aflac National Training Day, which is available to all levels of
our field force. Objectives of this training day have recently included topics such as: (1) conveying to our sales force how a weak economy enhances the need for our products and training them on how to better sell in the current economic
environment, (2) providing training and support for new product initiatives and (3) developing associates’ skills in achieving enrollment conditions necessary to succeed in economic environments with lagging consumer confidence.

In 2009, we introduced Success Trax, which is a tool that benefits all levels of our sales force. At the sales associate level, this
technology helps streamline information about their contacts, presentations, sales, referrals, and enrollments. At the sales coordinator level, it allows sales management to track the activities, progress, strengths, and weaknesses of those who
report to them so they may proactively coach agents on their team and address any emerging issues or need for improvement.

Our Aflac for BrokersSMinitiative was
implemented in 2009. Insurance brokers have been a historically underleveraged sales channel for Aflac, and we are developing relationships that will complement our traditional distribution system. We have assembled a management team
experienced in broker sales, and we are supporting this initiative with streamlined products, targeted broker-specific advertising campaigns, customized enrollment technology, and competitive compensation. Additionally, a new level of
management was introduced in 2009 to deliver this initiative. More than 100 broker development coordinators have been hired to be single points of contact for brokers across the country. Broker development coordinators are responsible for
building relationships with new brokers as well as strengthening relationships with our current brokers. These coordinators are assisted by a team of certified case managers whose role is to coordinate and manage the account enrollments for
brokers. Aflac Group Insurance equips us with a platform for offering voluntary group insurance products for distribution by insurance brokers at the worksite. Expanding our product portfolio with group products also greatly enhances the sales
opportunities for our traditional sales force of individual associates.

For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. distribution,
see the Aflac U.S. subsection of MD&A in this report.

Competition – Japan

In 1974, Aflac was granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain
direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s,
when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign companies, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products
as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of
annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market-leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will
allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. Aflac is the largest insurer in Japan in terms of individual policies in force. As of December 31, 2010, we exceeded 20 million individual policies in force in Japan.







Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer policies in Japan, with more than 14 million
cancer policies in force as of December 31, 2010. Aflac continued to be the number one seller of cancer insurance policies in Japan throughout 2010. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer insurance coverage in Japan, principally
due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, unique marketing system (see Distribution – Japan above) and product expertise.

We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products,
we believe our products stand out for their value to consumers. Aflac Japan continued to be the number one seller of stand-alone medical insurance in the life insurance industry in terms of policy sales in 2010.

In addition to third sector products, Aflac Japan is showing steady progress in sales of life insurance products, such as our child endowment
product and WAYS which are described in the Products section of this Form 10-K. The market for ordinary life products is highly competitive. Our current market share of ordinary life sales is relatively small; however, we will continue to pursue the
development and marketing of specialty products that meet specific needs within the general life insurance market.

Competition – U.S.

We compete against several insurers on a national basis plus other insurers regionally. We believe our policies and premium rates,
as well as the commissions paid to our sales associates, are competitive with those offered by other companies providing similar types of insurance. However, we believe our U.S. business is distinct from our competitors because of our product focus,
distribution system, and brand awareness. For many of the other companies that sell voluntary supplemental insurance, it represents a secondary business. For us, it is our primary business. We also believe that our growing distribution system of
independent sales associates and brokers expands our business opportunities, while our advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and understanding by consumers and businesses of the value our products provide.

Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, provide major medical insurance for hospitalization and
medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various programs. Such major medical insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the
medical expenses incurred by an insured as a result of accident and disability, cancer or other major illnesses. Aflac’s policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance and may also be used to defray
nonmedical expenses. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. However, the scope of major medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a potential limitation on the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of
coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverage, or increased deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect
our business opportunities.

Investments and Investment Results

Net investment income was $3.0 billion in 2010, $2.8 billion in 2009 and $2.6 billion in 2008. In each of these three years, net investment income
benefited from the strengthening of the yen/dollar exchange rate. The growth rate however has been negatively impacted by the low level of investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan’s life
insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number of years.







Investments – Japan

The following table presents the composition of total investments by sector, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac Japan ($78.4 billion in 2010 and $65.3 billion in 2009) as of December 31.

Composition of Portfolio by Sector



20102009Debt and perpetual securities, at amortized cost:Banks/financial
institutions(1)34.9%37.9%Government and agencies21.618.3Municipalities.8.6Public utilities12.812.3Collateralized debt obligations.1.5Sovereign and supranational7.78.1Mortgage- and asset-backed securities1.91.6Other
corporate(2)18.919.7Total debt and perpetual securities98.799.0Equity securities and other.2.1Cash and cash equivalents1.1.9Total investments and cash100.0%100.0%



(1)Includes 9.3% and 10.8% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

(2)Includes .4% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Our highest sector concentration is in banks and financial institutions. Our investment discipline begins with a top-down approach. We first
approve each country we invest in, and within those countries, we primarily invest in financial institutions that are strategically crucial to each country’s economy. The banks and financial institutions sector is a highly regulated industry
and plays a strategic role in the global economy. While this is our largest sector concentration, we achieve some degree of diversification through a geographically diverse universe of credit exposures. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Market Risks of Financial Instruments – Credit Risk subsection of MD&A for more information regarding the sector concentrations of our investments.

Yen-denominated debt and perpetual securities accounted for 91% of Aflac Japan’s total debt and perpetual securities at December 31,
2010, compared with 94% at December 31, 2009, at amortized cost.

Funds available for investment include cash flows from
operations, investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac Japan purchased debt security investments at aggregate acquisition cost of approximately 790.4 billion yen in 2010 (approximately $9.1 billion),
955.6 billion yen in 2009 (approximately $10.1 billion), and 689.0 billion yen in 2008 (approximately $6.8 billion). During the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, there were no purchases of perpetual securities, and equity security
purchases were immaterial. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases by sector, as a percentage of acquisition cost, for the years ended December 31.

Composition of Purchases by Sector



201020092008Debt security purchases, at cost:Banks/financial institutions8.5%4.6%25.5%Government and agencies55.149.313.8Municipalities2.53.3.0Public utilities11.414.423.5Collateralized debt obligations.0.04.7Sovereign and supranational5.811.2.0Mortgage- and asset-backed securities2.31.96.1Other corporate14.415.326.4Total100.0%100.0%100.0%







The change in allocation of purchases from year to year is based on diversification objectives,
relative value and availability of investment opportunities. In 2009, a significant portion of the increased percentage of purchases of securities in the government and agencies sector was due to a bond-swap program that we executed to generate
investment gains to take advantage of tax loss carryforwards.

The distributions by credit rating of Aflac Japan’s purchases of
debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows:

Composition of Purchases by Credit
Rating



201020092008AAA.8%7.9%9.1%AA68.962.941.1A18.528.541.9BBB11.8.77.9Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Our purchases of securities are
determined through an evaluation of attractive relative value that securities present while still meeting our investment policy guidelines for liquidity, safety and quality.

The distributions of debt and perpetual securities owned by Aflac Japan, by credit rating, as of December 31 were as follows:

Composition of Portfolio by Credit Rating



20102009AmortizedCostFairValueAmortizedCostFairValueAAA3.1%3.4%3.2%3.3%AA38.339.437.238.5A34.635.238.938.9BBB17.617.414.113.7BB or lower6.44.66.65.6Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

Investments – U.S.

The following table presents the composition of total investments by sector, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac U.S. ($9.1 billion in 2010 and
$8.4 billion in 2009) as of December 31.

Composition of Portfolio by Sector



20102009Debt and perpetual securities, at amortized cost:Banks/financial
institutions(1)23.6%26.0%Government and agencies.22.0Municipalities8.34.9Public utilities16.012.5Collateralized debt obligations.02.4Sovereign and supranational2.02.0Mortgage- and asset-backed securities3.83.0Other corporate40.432.6Total debt and perpetual securities94.385.4Cash and cash equivalents5.714.6Total investments and cash100.0%100.0%



(1)Includes 2.6% and 2.8% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.







See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Market Risks of Financial
Instruments – Credit Risk subsection of MD&A for more information regarding the sector concentrations of our investments.

Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and
redemptions. Aflac U.S. purchased debt security investments at an aggregate acquisition cost of approximately $1.9 billion in 2010, $1.0 billion in 2009 and $1.1 billion in 2008. We purchased no perpetual or equity securities during the three-year
period ended December 31, 2010. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases by sector, as a percentage of acquisition cost, for the years ended December 31.

Composition of Purchases by Sector



201020092008Debt security purchases, at cost:Banks/financial institutions4.2%12.5%15.6%Municipalities19.033.0.0Public utilities21.610.123.9Collateralized debt obligations.0.018.7Sovereign and supranational.6.7.0Mortgage- and asset-backed securities.03.013.3Other corporate54.640.728.5Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

The change in allocation of
purchases from year to year is based on diversification objectives, relative value and availability of investment opportunities.

The
distributions by credit rating of Aflac’s U.S. purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost, were as follows:

Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating



201020092008AAA1.6%4.9%14.4%AA21.517.86.9A53.661.442.4BBB23.315.936.3Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Our purchases of securities are
determined through an evaluation of attractive relative value that securities present while still meeting our investment policy guidelines for liquidity, safety and quality.







The distributions of debt and perpetual securities owned by Aflac U.S., by credit rating, as of
December 31 were as follows:

Composition of Portfolio by Credit Rating



20102009AmortizedCostFairValueAmortizedCostFairValueAAA5.2%5.0%4.2%4.2%AA12.612.811.312.0A47.448.045.847.6BBB30.530.129.129.0BB or lower4.34.19.67.2Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

For additional information on
the composition of our investment portfolios and investment results, see the Analysis of Financial Condition section in MD&A and Notes 3 and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – Japan

The financial and
business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end,
prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. Under Japanese regulatory
accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different basis; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of
securities transferred to held-to-maturity is different; policyholder protection corporation obligations are not accrued; premium income is recognized on a cash basis; and different consolidation criteria apply to variable interest entities.
Reconciliations of the net assets of the Japan branch on a U.S. GAAP basis to net assets determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 were as follows:



(In millions)20102009Aflac Japan net assets on GAAP basis$8,852$6,728Elimination of deferred policy acquisition cost asset(6,964)(5,846)Adjustment to income tax liabilities3,6022,649Adjustment to policy liabilities(4,265)(2,786)Adjustment of unrealized gains and other adjustments tocarrying value of debt securities1,8861,571Elimination of policyholder protection corporation liability108128Reduction in premiums receivable(97)(90)Difference in consolidation criteria for variable interest entities410Other, net(815)(438)Aflac Japan net assets on Japanese regulatory accounting basis$2,348$1,916

The FSA maintains a solvency
standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. As of December 31, 2010, Aflac Japan’s solvency margin ratio was 897.5%, which significantly exceeds regulatory minimums. The FSA will
apply a revised method of calculating the solvency margin ratio for life insurance companies as of fiscal year-end 2011 (March 31, 2012) and requires the disclosure of the ratio as reference information for fiscal year-end 2010 (March 31, 2011). The
FSA has stated that the revision would generally reduce life insurance companies’ solvency margin ratios to approximately half the level of those reported under the current calculation method. We do not expect our relative position within the
industry to materially change.







A portion of Aflac Japan’s annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting
basis, may be repatriated each year to Aflac U.S. These repatriated profits represent a portion of Aflac Japan’s after-tax earnings reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis. We may elect not to repatriate profits to Aflac U.S.
or to repatriate a reduced amount to strengthen Aflac Japan’s solvency margin. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit repatriations to Aflac U.S. if the transfers would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the
protection of Japanese policyholders. In the near term, we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations, nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of
allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company.

The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder
protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection Corporation subsection of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

As a branch of our principal insurance subsidiary, Aflac Japan is also subject
to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation – U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan’s operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 12 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – U.S.

The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries, Aflac (a Nebraska-domiciled insurance company), American Family Life Assurance Company of New
York (Aflac New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company) and CAIC (a South Carolina-domiciled insurance company) are subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide
that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions
between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each
insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding
company system.

Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which it does
business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things:



•granting and revoking licenses to transact business



•regulating trade and claims practices



•licensing of insurance agents and brokers



•approval of policy forms and premium rates



•standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements



•capital requirements



•limitations on dividends to shareholders



•the nature of and limitations on investments



•deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders



•filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities



•periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies

The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern Aflac’s activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic
insurer or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a







domestic insurance company or of any person controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, the Parent Company) must generally file with the Nebraska Department of Insurance an
application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and published regulations and provide a copy to Aflac. In Nebraska, control is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or
more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance company. The 10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York and South Carolina, the
domiciliary jurisdictions of the Parent Company’s other insurance subsidiaries, Aflac New York and CAIC.

Additionally, the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) continually reviews regulatory matters and recommends changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments.

The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate
identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer’s operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various
weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company’s regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized
control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action.

The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac’s NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains
high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. As of December 31, 2010, based on year-end statutory accounting results, Aflac’s company action level RBC ratio was 555%.

In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly known as the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, created a Financial Stability and
Oversight Council. The Council may designate by a two-thirds vote whether certain insurance companies and insurance holding companies pose a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States, in which case such nonbank financial companies
would become subject to prudential regulation by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (including capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements and examinations). The Board may limit such company’s ability to enter into merger
transactions, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate one or more activities, or impose conditions on the manner in which it conducts activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office under
the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The director of the Federal Insurance Office will have
the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards. The Dodd-Frank Act requires extensive rule-making and other future regulatory action, which in some cases will take a
period of years to implement.

For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation, change of control and dividend
restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, Aflac Japan had 4,016 employees and Aflac U.S. had 3,903 employees. We consider our employee relations to be excellent.

Other Operations

Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary.
These operations had 292 employees as of December 31, 2010. We consider our relations with these employees to be excellent. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations subsection of MD&A.

Executive Officers of the Registrant





NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE



Daniel P. AmosChairman, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; President, Aflac, until January 200759



Paul S. Amos IIPresident, Aflac, since January 2007; Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Operations, Aflac, since February 2006; Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations, Aflac, until January 200735



Yuji AraiSenior Vice President, Principal Financial Officer, Aflac Japan48



Koji AriyoshiFirst Senior Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan, since January 2010; Senior Vice President, Deputy Director of Marketing and Sales, until January 2010; Executive
Director, AXA Life Insurance Company Ltd., until October 200857



Susan R. BlanckExecutive Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, since January 2011; First Senior Vice President, Aflac Japan, since June 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, from
January 2006 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Deputy Corporate Actuary, Aflac, until January 200644



Kriss Cloninger IIIPresident, Aflac Incorporated; Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Treasurer, Aflac Incorporated; Executive Vice President, Aflac63



Martin A. Durant IIIExecutive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since June 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Aflac Incorporated, from July 2006 to June 2008;
Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, Carmike Cinemas, Inc., until March 200662



Thomas R. GiddensSenior Vice President, Director of Sales, Aflac, since November 2010; Senior Vice President, Co-Director of U.S. Sales, Aflac, from May 2010 until November 2010; Southeast Territory
Director, Aflac, until May 201056



June HowardSenior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since March 2010; Chief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since November 2010; Treasurer, Aflac,
since February 2011; Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac, from June 2009 until March 2010; Head of IFRS and U.S. GAAP for ING’s U.S. operations until June 200944



Jun IsonakaSenior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2010; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2009; Senior
Vice President, Sales, Aflac Japan, from January 2007 until January 2009; Vice President, Contact Center, Aflac Japan, from January 2006 until January 2007; Vice President, Territory Director, Northeast Territory, Aflac Japan, until January



Kenneth S. Janke Jr.Executive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since October 2010; Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac
Incorporated, until October 201052









NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE



W. Jeremy JefferySenior Vice President, Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, since January 2007; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, until January 200760



Charles D. Lake IIChairman, Aflac Japan, since July 2008; Vice Chairman, Aflac Japan, until July 200849



Joey M. LoudermilkExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Director, Legal and Governmental Relations, Aflac57



Ralph A. Rogers Jr.Senior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Treasurer, Aflac, until February 2011; Chief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, until November



Audrey B. TillmanExecutive Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, since January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, from October 2006 until January 2008;
Senior Vice President, Director of Human Resources, Aflac Incorporated, until October 200646



Tohru TonoikePresident, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac Japan, since July 2007;Deputy President, Aflac Japan, from February 2007 until July 2007; President and Representative Director, The Dai-ichi Kangyo AssetManagement Co., Ltd., until February 200760



Teresa L. WhiteExecutive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, since March 2008; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, from March 2007 until March 2008; Senior
Vice President, Sales Support and Administration, Aflac, until March 200744



Robin Y. WilkeySenior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, since October 2010; Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, until October 201052



Hiroshi YamauchiFirst Senior Vice President, Planning, Government Affairs & Research, Customer Services Promotion, Legal, Risk Management, and Compliance
Promotion, Aflac Japan, since January 2011; First Senior Vice President, Planning, Government Affairs & Research, Legal, Risk Management, and Compliance Promotion, Aflac Japan, until January 2011; First Senior Vice President, Chief
Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, until January 201059



(1)Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.







