ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We prepare our financial statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on
forward-looking information, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report.

Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com. The
information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

General Description

Aflac
Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing
management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates
in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Additionally, Aflac U.S. markets and administers group products through Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC). Most of Aflac’s policies are individually
underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business.

During 2009, the Parent Company purchased Continental American Insurance Group, Inc., which includes its wholly-owned subsidiary, CAIC. CAIC,
headquartered in Columbia, South Carolina, equips Aflac U.S. with a platform for offering attractive voluntary group insurance products that are well-suited for distribution by insurance brokers at the worksite.

We believe Aflac is the world’s leading underwriter of individually issued policies marketed at worksites. We continue to diversify our product
offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells supplemental insurance products, including cancer plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans
and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells supplemental insurance products, including accident/disability plans, cancer plans, short-term disability plans, sickness and hospital indemnity plans, hospital intensive care plans, fixed-benefit dental plans, vision
care plans, long-term care plans, and life insurance products.

We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the
District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan’s revenues, including realized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, accounted for 73% of the Company’s total revenues in 2009, 72% in 2008 and 71% in 2007. The
percentage of the Company’s total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 85% at December 31, 2009, and 87% at December 31, 2008. For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this
report.

Results of Operations

For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.







Foreign Currency Translation

For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Market Risks of Financial
Instruments – Currency Risk sections of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Insurance Premiums

The growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the
change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were $16.6 billion in 2009, $14.9 billion in 2008, and $13.0 billion in 2007. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac’s insurance business for the years ended December 31.



(In millions)200920082007Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$17,550$14,370$13,195New sales, including conversions2,7632,6662,532Change in unprocessed new sales(92)(100)(78)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(2,207)(1,969)(1,715)Other1203230Foreign currency translation adjustment(144)2,551406Annualized premiums in force, end of year$17,990$17,550$14,370

Insurance – Japan

We translate Aflac Japan’s annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized
premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31.



In DollarsIn Yen(In millions of dollars and billions of yen)200920082007200920082007Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$12,761$9,860$9,0941,1621,1261,083New sales, including conversions1,3101,115974122115115Change in unprocessed new sales(92)(100)(78)(9)(10)(9)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(737)(593)(472)(69)(61)(56)Other(64)(72)(64)(6)(8)(7)Foreign currency translation adjustment(144)2,551406———Annualized premiums in force, end of year$13,034$12,761$9,8601,2001,1621,126

For further information regarding Aflac Japan’s financial
results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report.







Insurance – U.S.

The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31.



(In millions)200920082007Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$4,789$4,510$4,101New sales, including conversions1,4531,5511,558Premiums lapsed(1,471)(1,376)(1,243)Other18510494Annualized premiums in force, end of year$4,956$4,789$4,510

For further information regarding Aflac’s U.S. financial
results and sales, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – Japan

Aflac Japan’s insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan’s
national health insurance system. Changes in Japan’s economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan’s national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have
become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products.

Aflac Japan’s stand-alone medical product, EVER, offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium. Since its initial
introduction in 2002, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings that appeal to specific types of Japanese consumers. In August 2009, we introduced a new generation of our popular EVER product, the most notable changes being an enhanced
surgical benefit and gender-specific premium rates. We believe that there is an attractive market for this type of medical product in Japan. We continue to believe that the entire medical category will remain an important part of our product
portfolio in Japan.

The cancer insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer
and a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related to cancer as well as surgical, convalescent and terminal care benefits. In September 2007, we introduced a new product called Cancer Forte. This was the first major
revision we have made to our cancer product offerings since 2001. Responding to requests for enhanced outpatient coverage for cancer treatment, Cancer Forte pays outpatient benefits for 60 days, compared with 30 days for our previous plans. It also
incorporates two new features. First, if a policyholder is diagnosed with cancer for the first time, we pay that policyholder an annuity from the second year through the fifth year after diagnosis. This is in addition to the traditional upfront
first-occurrence benefit. The second new benefit is called “Premier Support,” where Aflac arranges for a third party to provide policyholders with counseling and doctor referral services upon their cancer diagnosis. For consumers who had
the earlier cancer insurance product, we introduced a special bridge policy in 2008 that allows existing policyholders to upgrade their coverage to that of Cancer Forte.

Some of the life products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Some plans have features that allow policyholders
to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. In March 2009, we introduced a new child endowment product, which offers a death benefit until the child reaches age 18. It also
pays a lump-sum benefit at the time of the child’s entry into high school, as well as an educational annuity for each of the four years during his or her college education.







We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies. For additional information on
Aflac Japan’s products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – U.S.

We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance
coverage. Our policies are portable and pay regardless of other insurance. Benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders; therefore, they have the opportunity to use this cash to help with expenses of their choosing. Our health insurance plans
are guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 70 for short-term disability policies). We cannot cancel guaranteed-renewable coverage, but we can increase premium rates on existing policies on a uniform, nondiscriminatory
basis by class of policy in response to adverse experience. Any premium rate increases are subject to state regulatory approval. We have had minimal rate increase activity in the last five years.

Aflac U.S. offers an accident and disability policy to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes
lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. Optional disability riders are also available. Short-term disability policies provide disability benefits with a variety
of elimination and benefit period options. The longest such benefit period offered is two years.

Our U.S. cancer
plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for medical and nonmedical costs that are not covered by major medical insurance. Benefits include a first-occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal cancer is first diagnosed; a
fixed amount for each day an insured is hospitalized for cancer treatment; fixed amounts for radiation, chemotherapy and surgery; and a wellness benefit applicable toward certain diagnostic tests. Our Maximum Difference®cancer plan incorporates coverage for medical advances in cancer prevention, diagnosis, treatment and the many new ways cancer
patients may now receive their care. Maximum Difference allows customization of coverage to fit varying needs and budgets.

In 2009, we launched Essentials Accident and Essentials Maximum Difference®cancer plans. These new products have
lower benefit and premium levels than the core versions of these products. In the short term, we believe these products are better suited to the current economy and in the long run, they will give consumers more choices.

Our hospital indemnity products provide fixed daily benefits for hospitalization due to accident or sickness. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and
outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available. Our sickness indemnity plan provides a fixed daily benefit for hospitalization due to sickness and fixed amounts for physician services for accident or sickness.

Aflac U.S. offers a specified health event policy that gives consumers a choice of three benefit and premium levels. One of the levels
combines the specified health event policy with our intensive care plan. By leveraging administrative efficiencies, consumers may purchase the combined coverage for less than purchasing the policies separately.

Aflac U.S. offers term and whole life policies sold through payroll deduction at the worksite and various term and whole life policies on a direct
basis. Our newest life insurance product line, Life Protector Series, offers term policies with varying duration options and a new whole life policy with additional benefits, including an increased face value option. These revisions greatly enhanced
the product category and contributed to its success in the marketplace.

We offer a series of fixed-benefit dental policies, providing
various levels of benefits for dental procedures, including checkups and cleanings. Plan features include a renewal guarantee, no deductible and no network restrictions.







Aflac U.S. offers Vision NowSM, which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye
materials and exam benefits.

For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S.
section of MD&A in this report.

Distribution – Japan

The traditional channels through which we have sold our products are independent corporate agencies, individual agencies and affiliated corporate agencies. The independent corporate agencies and individual agencies
that sell our products give us better access to workers at a vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents’ activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Independent
corporate agencies and individual agencies contributed 55% of total new annualized premium sales in both 2009 and 2008 and 56% in 2007. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance
products to their employees, suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites, including 89% of the companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Affiliated corporate agencies contributed 35% of total new annualized
premium sales in 2009, compared with 36% in both 2008 and 2007. During 2009, we recruited approximately 4,600 new sales agencies. As of December 31, 2009, Aflac Japan was represented by more than 19,600 sales agencies, with more than 110,500
licensed sales associates employed by those agencies at such date. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan’s high commissions, superior products, customer service and strong brand image.

We continue to reach consumers through our strategic marketing alliance with Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). We believe our
alliance has been one of the most successful partnerships in the insurance industry since it was first launched in 2001. In 2009, Dai-ichi Life sold more than 122,000 of our market-leading cancer policies, compared with 190,000 policies in 2008 and
244,000 policies in 2007. Dai-ichi Life contributed 4% of our total new annualized premium sales in 2009, compared with 7% in 2008 and 8% in 2007.

We have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974. However, December 2007 marked the first time it was permissible for banks to sell supplemental health insurance products to their
customers. By the end of 2009, we had agreements with 353 banks to sell our products. We have significantly more selling agreements with banks than any of our competitors. We believe our longstanding and strong relationships with the banking sector,
along with our strategic preparations, have proven to be an advantage as this channel opened up for our products.

For additional
information on Aflac Japan’s distribution, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A in this report.

Distribution – U.S.

Our U.S. sales force comprises sales associates who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed
to sell life insurance. Sales associates are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, district, regional and state sales
coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Most associates’ efforts are principally focused on selling supplemental insurance at the worksite. Administrative personnel in Georgia, New York, and Nebraska handle
policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims.







We concentrate on marketing our products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals
through employment, trade and other associations. Historically, our policies have been individual which means that our policies are individually underwritten and premiums are generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac’s individual
policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll
deduction or other forms of centralized billing. With the beginning of our brokerage sales expansion and the purchase of CAIC, we are now able to offer group voluntary benefit products desired by many large employers. These products are sold on a
group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue. This coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract.
Worksite marketing enables a sales associate to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business. With total new payroll accounts rising 10.6% in 2009, we believe that we
have provided a solid foundation for future sales when the U.S. economy recovers.

During the past several years, we have enhanced and
increased the size of our distribution system. We recruited more than 28,400 new sales associates in 2009. At December 31, 2009, Aflac was represented by more than 75,300 licensed sales associates, a 1.2% increase over 2008. However, increasing
our sales force means more than just recruiting people. We focus on growing the number of average weekly producers, which measures high-quality, consistent, capable producers who make solid, consistent contributions to sales. New average weekly
producers, or those who are in their first year, increased 6.2% for 2009.

New sales associates participate in our
New Associate Training Cycle, a training program that combines classroom instruction and online learning throughAflac University®with field training. The New Associate Training Cycle also includes LEASE training (Larger Earnings by Acquiring Smaller Employers), which helps new sales
associates jumpstart their sales careers with an easily transferable guide for approaching smaller businesses.

In addition to training
sales associates, we extend our training initiatives to both new and veteran sales force management. Sales associates who exhibit leadership potential are invited to participate in our national Coordinator in Training (CIT) program. The CIT program
concentrates on developing potential leaders’ skills so they have a better chance to succeed as a district sales coordinator, the first level of Aflac’s sales force management. For district, regional, and state sales coordinators (listed
in order from first level to highest level of sales management), we have refined and expanded the use of leadership development programs. We believe our efforts to increase the size and capability of our field force will translate into a higher
proportion of successful producing sales associates in the future.

In addition to our established training programs, we conduct an
annual Aflac National Training Day, which is available to all levels of our field force. Objectives of this training day have recently included topics such as: (1) conveying to our sales force how a weak economy enhances the need for our
products and training them on how to better sell in the current economic environment, (2) providing training and support for new product initiatives and (3) developing associates’ skills in achieving enrollment conditions necessary to
succeed in economic environments with lagging consumer confidence.

In July 2009, we introduced Success Trax, which is a tool that
benefits all levels of our sales force. At the sales associate level, this technology helps streamline information about their contacts, presentations, sales, referrals, and enrollments. At the sales coordinator level, it allows sales management to
track the activities, progress, strengths, and weaknesses of those who report to them so they may proactively coach agents on their team and address any emerging issues or need for improvement.

In the first quarter of 2009, we implemented our new Aflac for BrokersSMinitiative. Insurance brokers have been a historically underleveraged sales channel for Aflac, and we believe we can
establish







relationships that will complement, not compete with, our traditional distribution system. We have assembled a management team experienced in broker sales, and we are supporting this
initiative with streamlined products, targeted broker specific advertising campaigns, customized enrollment technology, and competitive compensation. Additionally, a new level of management was introduced in 2009 to deliver this
initiative. Over 100 broker development coordinators have been hired to be single points of contact for brokers across the country. Broker development coordinators are responsible for building relationships with new brokers as well as
strengthening relationships with our current brokers. These coordinators are assisted by a team of certified case managers whose role is to coordinate and manage the account enrollments for brokers.

Furthering our initiatives in the broker arena, we acquired CAIC in the fourth quarter of 2009. This acquisition equips us with a platform for
offering attractive voluntary group insurance products that are well-suited for distribution by insurance brokers at the worksite. Expanding our product portfolio with group products also greatly enhances the sales opportunities for our traditional
sales force of individual associates.

For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. section of
MD&A in this report.

Competition – Japan

In 1974, Aflac was granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we
faced limited competition for cancer insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign
companies, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a
result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe
that our market-leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to
consumers. Aflac is the largest insurer in Japan in terms of individual policies in force. As of December 31, 2009, we exceeded 20 million individual policies in force in Japan.

Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer policies in Japan, with 14 million cancer policies in force as of December 31, 2009. Aflac
continued to be the number one seller of cancer insurance policies in Japan throughout 2009. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations,
unique marketing system (see Distribution – Japan above) and product expertise.

We have also experienced substantial success
selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we believe our products stand out for their value to consumers. Aflac Japan
continued to be the number one seller of stand-alone medical insurance in the life insurance industry in terms of policy sales in 2009.

Competition
– U.S.

We compete against several insurers on a national basis plus other insurers regionally. We believe our policies and
premium rates, as well as the commissions paid to our sales associates, are competitive







with those offered by other companies providing similar types of insurance. However, we believe our U.S. business is distinct from our competitors because of our product focus, distribution
system, and brand awareness. For many of the other companies that sell supplemental insurance, it represents a secondary business. For us, it is our primary business. We also believe that our growing distribution system of independent sales
associates expands our business opportunities, while our advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and understanding by consumers and businesses of the value our products provide.

Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, provide major medical insurance for hospitalization and
medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various programs. Such major medical insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the
medical expenses incurred by an insured as a result of accident and disability, cancer or other major illnesses. Aflac’s policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance and may also be used to defray
nonmedical expenses. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. However, the scope of major medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a potential limitation on the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of
coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverage, or increased deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect
our business opportunities.

Investments and Investment Results

Net investment income was $2.8 billion in 2009, $2.6 billion in 2008 and $2.3 billion in 2007. The growth of net investment income during the last
three years has been negatively impacted by the low level of investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan’s life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number of years.

Investments – Japan

The
following table presents the composition of total investments by sector, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac Japan ($65.3 billion in 2009 and $62.9 billion in 2008) as of December 31.

Composition of Portfolio by Sector



20092008Debt and perpetual securities, at amortized cost:Banks/financial institutions*37.9%41.5%Government and agencies18.318.2Municipalities.6.1Public utilities12.310.6Collateralized debt obligations.51.1Sovereign and supranational8.17.4Mortgage- and asset-backed securities1.61.5Other corporate**19.718.8Total debt and perpetual securities99.099.2Equity securities and other.1.1Cash and cash equivalents.9.7Total investments and cash100.0%100.0%

*Includes 10.8% and 13.4% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively

**Includes .4% and .5% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively







Our highest sector concentration is in banks and financial institutions. Our investment discipline
begins with a top-down approach. We first approve each country we invest in, and within those countries, we primarily invest in financial institutions that are strategically crucial to each country’s economy. The banks and financial
institutions sector is a highly regulated industry and plays a strategic role in the global economy. While this is our largest sector concentration, we achieve some degree of diversification through a geographically diverse universe of credit
exposures. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Market Risks of Financial Instruments – Credit Risk section of MD&A for more information regarding the sector concentrations of our investments.

Yen-denominated debt and perpetual securities accounted for 94% of Aflac Japan’s total debt and perpetual securities at December 31,
2009, and 2008, at amortized cost.

Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations, investment income, and funds
generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac Japan purchased debt security investments at aggregate acquisition cost of approximately 955.6 billion yen in 2009 (approximately $10.1 billion), 689.0 billion yen in 2008 (approximately
$6.8 billion), and 699.1 billion yen in 2007 (approximately $6.0 billion). During the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, there were no purchases of perpetual securities, and equity security purchases were immaterial. The following table
presents the composition of debt security purchases by sector, as a percentage of acquisition cost, for the years ended December 31.

Composition of Purchases by Sector



200920082007Debt security purchases, at cost:Banks/financial institutions4.6%25.5%35.3%Government and agencies49.313.824.4Municipalities3.3——Public utilities14.423.58.6Collateralized debt obligations—4.74.6Sovereign and supranational11.2—3.0Mortgage- and asset-backed securities1.96.12.2Other corporate15.326.421.9Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

The change in allocation of purchases from year to year is
based on diversification objectives, relative value and availability of investment opportunities. In 2009, Aflac Japan increased its purchases of securities in the government and agencies sector because of our view of their relative value. A
significant portion of the increased percentage of purchases of those securities was due to a bond-swap program that we executed in 2009 to generate investment gains to take advantage of tax loss carryforwards.

The distributions by credit rating of Aflac Japan’s purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based on acquisition cost,
were as follows:

Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating



200920082007AAA7.9%9.1%18.0%AA62.941.148.5A28.541.929.6BBB.77.93.9Total100.0%100.0%100.0%







The increase in the percentage of debt securities purchased in the AA rated category during 2009 was
due to the attractive relative value these securities presented while still meeting our investment policy guidelines for liquidity, safety and quality. In 2007, the increased percentage of debt securities purchased in the AAA rated category
primarily reflected the purchase of U.S. Treasury bills by Aflac Japan prior to repatriating profits to Aflac U.S. in the third quarter of 2007.

The distributions of debt and perpetual securities owned by Aflac Japan, by credit rating, as of December 31 were as follows:

Composition of Portfolio by Credit Rating



20092008AmortizedCostFairValueAmortizedCostFairValueAAA3.2%3.3%5.2%5.3%AA37.238.542.844.9A38.938.932.932.0BBB14.113.717.216.6BB or lower6.65.61.91.2Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

During 2009, Aflac Japan experienced an overall decrease in
its holdings of AA rated securities due to downgrades of certain securities offset partially by purchases within that category. Aflac Japan’s A rated securities increased due to purchases and downgrades of higher rated securities. Aflac
Japan’s BB or lower rated securities increased due to the downgrade of higher rated securities during 2009.

Investments – U.S.

The following table presents the composition of total investments by sector, at amortized cost, and cash for Aflac U.S. ($8.4
billion in 2009 and $7.3 billion in 2008) as of December 31.

Composition of Portfolio by Sector



20092008Debt and perpetual securities, at amortized cost:Banks/financial institutions*26.0%34.4%U.S. government and agencies2.02.7Municipalities4.91.1Public utilities12.512.7Collateralized debt obligations2.43.1Sovereign and supranational2.02.9Mortgage- and asset-backed securities3.05.0Other corporate32.635.2Total debt and perpetual securities85.497.1Cash and cash equivalents14.62.9Total investments and cash100.0%100.0%

*Includes 2.8% and 4.4% of perpetual securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Larger cash balances were held for specific corporate purposes in 2009 and for reserve due to the uncertainty and lack of liquidity in the market. The
cash balances are in the process of being invested as







market conditions improve. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Market Risks of Financial Instruments – Credit Risk section of MD&A for more
information regarding the sector concentrations of our investments.

Funds available for investment include cash flows from operations,
investment income, and funds generated from bond swaps, maturities and redemptions. Aflac U.S. purchased debt security investments at an aggregate acquisition cost of approximately $1.0 billion in 2009, $1.1 billion in 2008 and $1.0 billion in 2007.
We purchased no perpetual or equity securities during the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. The following table presents the composition of debt security purchases by sector, as a percentage of acquisition cost, for the years ended
December 31.

Composition of Purchases by Sector



200920082007Debt security purchases, at cost:Banks/financial institutions12.5%15.6%18.8%Government and agencies——1.0Municipalities33.0—2.5Public utilities10.123.93.1Collateralized debt obligations—18.75.0Sovereign and supranational.7—2.9Mortgage- and asset-backed securities3.013.312.8Other corporate40.728.553.9Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

The change in allocation of purchases from year to year is
based on diversification objectives, relative value and availability of investment opportunities. During 2008, Aflac U.S. used the proceeds from the issuance of $200 million of variable interest rate funding agreements to third party investors to
purchase a corresponding amount of variable interest rate CDOs. These CDOs were purchased exclusively to support our obligation under the funding agreements. As a result of this transaction, CDO purchases were higher in 2008 compared with 2009 and
2007.

The distributions by credit rating of Aflac’s U.S. purchases of debt securities for the years ended December 31, based
on acquisition cost, were as follows:

Composition of Purchases by Credit Rating



200920082007AAA4.9%14.4%20.5%AA17.86.918.7A61.442.433.2BBB15.936.327.6Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

The increase in the percentage of debt securities purchased in
the AA and A rated categories during 2009 was due to the attractive relative value these securities presented while still meeting our investment policy guidelines for liquidity, safety and quality.







The distributions of debt and perpetual securities owned by Aflac U.S., by credit rating, as of
December 31 were as follows:

Composition of Portfolio by Credit Rating



20092008AmortizedCostFairValueAmortizedCostFairValueAAA4.2%4.2%9.7%10.1%AA11.312.013.215.7A45.847.644.845.5BBB29.129.030.727.6BB or lower9.67.21.61.1Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%

During 2009, Aflac U.S. experienced a decrease in its holdings
of AAA rated securities due to a decrease in purchases in that category combined with downgrades of certain securities. Aflac U.S. BB or lower rated securities increased due to the downgrade of higher rated securities during 2009.

For additional information on the composition of our investment portfolios and investment results, see the Analysis of Financial Condition section in
MD&A and Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – Japan

The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual
reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis
earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. Under Japanese regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a
different basis; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of securities transferred to held-to-maturity is different; policyholder protection corporation obligations are not accrued; and premium
income is recognized on a cash basis. Reconciliations of the net assets of the Japan branch on a U.S. GAAP basis to net assets determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 were as follows:



(In millions)20092008Aflac Japan net assets on GAAP basis$6,728$5,884Elimination of deferred policy acquisition cost asset(5,846)(5,643)Adjustment to income tax liabilities2,6492,146Adjustment to policy liabilities(2,786)(1,858)Adjustment of unrealized gains and other adjustments to carrying value of debt securities1,5711,510Elimination of policyholder protection corporation liability128160Reduction in premiums receivable(90)(82)Other, net(438)(136)Aflac Japan net assets on Japanese regulatory accounting basis$1,916$1,981

The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by
Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. As of December 31, 2009, Aflac Japan’s solvency margin ratio







was 885.5%, which significantly exceeds regulatory minimums. The FSA has issued a proposal to revise the current method of calculating the solvency margin ratio. The FSA intends to apply the
revised method to life insurance companies for the fiscal year-end 2011 (March 31, 2012) and require the disclosure of the ratio as reference information for fiscal year-end 2010 (March 31, 2011). The FSA expects the revision would generally reduce
life insurance companies’ solvency margin ratios to approximately half the level of those reported under the current calculation method.

A portion of Aflac Japan’s annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, may be repatriated each year to Aflac U.S. These repatriated profits represent a portion of Aflac Japan’s after-tax earnings
reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis. If needed, we may elect not to repatriate profits to Aflac U.S. or to repatriate a reduced amount to strengthen Aflac Japan’s solvency margin. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit
repatriations or other transfers of funds to Aflac U.S. if they would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. In the near term, we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the
funds available for profit repatriations, nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company.

The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For
additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection Corporation section of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

As a branch of our principal insurance subsidiary, Aflac Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation
– U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan’s operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – U.S.

The Parent Company and
its insurance subsidiaries, Aflac (a Nebraska-domiciled insurance company), American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company) and CAIC (a South Carolina-domiciled insurance company) are
subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of
assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are subject to prior notice to, or approval
by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective
domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system.

Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which it does business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad
administrative powers relating to, among other things:



—granting and revoking licenses to transact business



—regulating trade and claims practices



—licensing of insurance agents and brokers



—approval of policy forms and premium rates



—standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements







—capital requirements



—limitations on dividends to shareholders



—the nature of and limitations on investments



—deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders



—filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities



—periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies

The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern Aflac’s activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic insurer
or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of any person
controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, the Parent Company) must generally file with the Nebraska Department of Insurance an application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and published
regulations and provide a copy to Aflac. In Nebraska, control is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance company. The
10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York and South Carolina, the domiciliary jurisdictions of the Parent Company’s other insurance subsidiaries, Aflac New York and
CAIC.

Additionally, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) continually reviews regulatory matters and recommends
changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments.

The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating
to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer’s operations.
The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a
ratio of a company’s regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires
specified corrective action.

The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac’s
NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. As of December 31, 2009, based on year-end statutory accounting results, Aflac’s company action level RBC ratio was 479%.

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation and administrative policies
in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services reform legislation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. Various forms of
federal oversight and possible regulation of insurance have been proposed in Congress. These proposals include the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which would establish the “Federal Insurance Office” within the Department
of Treasury to monitor the insurance industry, identify gaps in regulation of insurance that could contribute to a systemic crisis, and identify an insurer that should be subject to stricter standards. Other proposals are pending in Congress
that would permit an optional federal charter for insurers. The Obama administration has indicated that enactment of financial services reform is a legislative priority in 2010. Accordingly, it is possible that legislation to create federal
oversight of insurance through an office in the Department of Treasury may be enacted, however, the chance of enactment of a federal insurance charter, while possible, appears to be less likely.







In addition, U.S. Congressional leaders and the Obama administration have expressed their commitment
to enacting major health reform legislation, and both the House and the Senate have adopted their versions of a health care reform bill. While it is not possible to predict with certainty what provisions may be in any final legislation, it is likely
that such legislation, if adopted, will include major changes to the U.S. health care insurance marketplace. Some of the proposals currently under discussion address individual and employer mandates, health insurance exchanges, coverage and
exclusions, and medical loss ratios. The legislation also may include changes in government reimbursements and subsidies for individuals and employers and alter federal and state regulation of health insurers. Given the substantial differences
between the legislation passed by the House and Senate, the ongoing negotiations to reconcile the legislation and the fact that some key provisions will be general in nature and subject to future regulatory interpretation,
it is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty what effect any legislation and future regulation, if adopted, will have on the Company’s U.S. business, financial condition, or results of operations. However, Japan has had a national
health care system for many years, and Aflac Japan has successfully operated in such a regulated environment.

For further information
concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation, change of control and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. section of MD&A and Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, Aflac
Japan had 3,946 employees and Aflac U.S. had 4,111 employees. We consider our employee relations to be excellent.

Other Operations

Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary. These operations had 292 employees as of December 31, 2009. We
consider our relations with these employees to be excellent. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations section of MD&A.



