ITEM 1. BUSINESS

We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on forward-looking information, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report.

Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com. The information on the Company's Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



General Description

Aflac Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac's policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Aflac U.S. markets and administers group products through Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), branded as Aflac Group Insurance. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business.

Aflac offers voluntary insurance policies in Japan and the United States that provide a layer of financial protection against income and asset loss. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells voluntary supplemental insurance products, including cancer plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells voluntary supplemental insurance products including products designed to protect individuals from depletion of assets (accident, cancer, critical illness/ critical care, hospital intensive care, hospital indemnity, fixed-benefit dental, and vision care plans) and loss-of-income products (life and short-term disability plans).



We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan's revenues, including realized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, accounted for74%of the Company's total revenues in2013, compared with77%in2012and75%in2011. The percentage of the Company's total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was85%atDecember 31, 2013, compared with87%atDecember 31, 2012.

Results of Operations

For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Foreign Currency Translation

For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Market Risks of Financial Instruments - Currency Risk subsections of MD&A and Notes 1 and 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.










Insurance Premiums

The growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were$20.1 billionin2013,$22.1billion in2012, and$20.4billion in2011. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac's insurance business for the years ended December 31.(In millions)201320122011Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$22,689$22,472$20,380New sales, including conversions2,9634,1293,503Change in unprocessed new sales6618335Premiums lapsed and surrendered(2,154)(2,173)(2,204)Other17(9)(3)Foreign currency translation adjustment(3,141)(1,913)761Annualized premiums in force, end of year$20,440$22,689$22,472

Insurance - Japan

We translate Aflac Japan's annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31.

In DollarsIn Yen(In millions of dollars and billions of yen)201320122011201320122011Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$17,238$17,284$15,4081,4921,3441,256New sales, including conversions1,5392,6412,027149211161Change in unprocessed new sales66183356143Premiums lapsed and surrendered(717)(845)(847)(70)(68)(68)Other(115)(112)(100)(10)(9)(8)Foreign currency translation adjustment(3,141)(1,913)761000Annualized premiums in force, end of year$14,870$17,238$17,2841,5671,4921,344

For further information regarding Aflac Japan's financial results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



Insurance - U.S.

The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31.

(In millions)201320122011Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$5,451$5,188$4,973New sales, including conversions1,4241,4881,476Premiums lapsed(1,437)(1,328)(1,357)Other13210396Annualized premiums in force, end of year$5,570$5,451$5,188

For further information regarding Aflac's U.S. financial results, sales and the U.S. economy, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



Insurance Products - Japan

Aflac Japan's insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan's national health insurance system. Changes in Japan's economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan's national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese










consumers, who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products.

Aflac Japan's product portfolio has expanded beyond traditional health-related products to include more life products. Some of the life products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Some plans, such as our WAYS product, have features that allow policyholders to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. Our child endowment product offers a death benefit until a child reaches age 18.  It also pays a lump-sum benefit at the time of the child's entry into high school, as well as an educational annuity for each of the four years during his or her college education. We believe that life insurance (first sector product) provides further opportunities for us to sell our cancer and medical insurance (third sector products) through cross-selling opportunities.

In early 2002, we introduced EVER, a stand-alone, whole-life medical product which offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium. Since its initial introduction, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings to appeal to specific types of Japanese consumers and achieve greater market penetration. New EVER, introduced in 2009, offered enhanced surgical benefits and gender-specific premium rates. An upgrade to our New EVER product, released in January 2012, included more advanced medical treatment options than its predecessor. The most recent upgrade to our New EVER product, released in August 2013, introduced outpatient coverage prior to hospitalization and enhanced coverage for short-term hospitalization with premium levels to attract a younger generation of consumers, an area in which we are currently underpenetrated. Gentle EVER, our non-standard medical product, is designed to meet the needs of certain consumers who cannot qualify for our base EVER plan. The most recent upgrade to our Gentle EVER product, released in July 2012, includes expanded benefits and a newly attached advanced medical care rider.We continue to believe that the entire medical category will remain an important part of our product portfolio in Japan.



Aflac pioneered the cancer insurance market in Japan in 1974, and we remain the number one provider of cancer insurance today. Over the years, we’ve customized our cancer product to respond to, and anticipate, the needs of our consumers and the advances in medical treatments. The cancer insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer and benefits for treatment received due to internal cancer such as fixed daily benefits for hospitalization, outpatient services and convalescent care, and surgical and terminal care benefits. Our newest cancer policy, DAYS, and a bridge policy, DAYS PLUS which upgraded older cancer policies, have enhancements to reflect changes in cancer treatment. As the number one provider of cancer insurance in Japan, we believe this product  further strengthens our brand, and most importantly, provides valuable benefits to consumers who are looking for solutions to manage cancer-related costs. We are convinced that the affordable cancer products Aflac Japan provides will continue to be an important part of our product portfolio.



We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies.  For additional information on Aflac Japan's products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products - U.S.

We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Most of our U.S. policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, we started to market and administer group insurance products in 2009.

Our individually issued policies are portable and pay benefits regardless of other insurance. Most products' benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders; therefore, our customers have the opportunity to use this cash to help with expenses of their choosing. Our individually issued health insurance plans are typically guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 75 for short-term disability policies). Our group insurance policies are underwritten on a group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue. This coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract or upon termination of the master policy group contract.

Aflac U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. In addition, other benefits such as short-term disability are available as riders.














Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis. In 2013, we introduced a completely redesigned group short-term disability product with enhanced benefit options and higher income replacement amounts.



Aflac U.S. offers coverage for critical illnesses on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke, or cancer. On an individually underwritten basis we offer cancer plans, critical illness/critical care plans, critical care and recovery plans (formerly called specified health event) and hospital intensive care plans. On a group basis we offer critical illness/critical care plans. In 2013, we updated our critical illness plan on the individual platform to offer a guaranteed-issue face amount which can include lump sum benefits for cancer. We listened to the needs of our customers, and now offer a critical illness plan that is compatible with health savings accounts (HSAs).



Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Our hospital indemnity products may provide fixed daily benefits for hospitalization due to accident or sickness, or just sickness alone. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available. In 2013, we introduced a new individual hospital plan, designed to provide flexible options for consumers as they deal with new coverage plans that have emerged with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act of 2010 (ACA). This product focuses on providing benefits for a wide variety of hospital services, including emergency visits, surgeries, and diagnostics, as well as benefits for traditional hospital stays. In 2013, we also updated our group hospital plan which provides multiple hospital admission amounts for an employer to choose, giving the flexibility to tailor a plan that will closely match their level of  major medical coverage. In addition, we added a wellness benefit to specified levels of coverage, supporting healthier habits with employees and promoting lower health plan utilization for employers.



Aflac U.S. offers fixed-benefit dental coverage on both an individual and group basis. Aflac U.S. also offers Vision NowSM, an individually issued policy which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits. Aflac U.S. offers term and whole-life policies on both an individual and group basis.



For additional information on Aflac's U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution - Japan

The traditional channels through which we have sold our products are independent corporate agencies, individual agencies and affiliated corporate agencies. The independent corporate agencies and individual agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at a vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents' activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Independent corporate agencies and individual agencies contributed43.8%of new annualized premium sales in2013, compared with34.7%in2012and44.0%in2011. Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees as part of a benefit package, and then expand to sell our products to suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites, and some of them are also successful in approaching customers outside their business groups.  Affiliated corporate agencies contributed23.1%of new annualized premium sales in2013, compared with18.5%in2012and25.1%in2011. During2013, we recruited more than1,600new sales agencies. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Aflac Japan was represented by more than15,900sales agencies, with more than126,500licensed sales associates employed by those agencies. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan's high commissions, attractive products, superior customer service and strong brand image.



We have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974. However, December 2007 marked the first time it was permissible for banks to sell our type of insurance products to their customers. By the end of2013, we had agreements with372banks, approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan, to sell our products.  We believe we have significantly more banks selling our supplemental health insurance products than any of our competitors. Japanese consumers rely on banks not only to provide traditional bank services, but also to provide insurance solutions and other services. We believe our long-standing and strong relationships within the Japanese banking sector, along with our strategic preparations, have proven to be an advantage, particularly starting when this channel opened up for our products. Our partnerships throughout the banking sector provide us with a wider demographic of potential customers than we would otherwise have been able to reach, and it also allows banks to expand their product and service offerings to consumers. Banks contributed31.3%of Aflac Japan new annualized premium sales in2013, compared with45.6%in2012and28.9%in2011.












Aflac Japan and Japan Post Holdings entered into a new agreement in July 2013, further expanding their partnership that was initially established in 2008 (see Regulation-Japan). Through this alliance, Japan Post intends to expand the number of post offices that offer Aflac's cancer products, gradually increasing from 1,000 postal outlets to eventually 20,000 outlets. Subject to regulatory approval, Japan Post Insurance (Kampo) will enter into an agency contract with Aflac Japan to begin distributing Aflac Japan's cancer insurance products at all of Kampo's 79 directly managed sales offices. Also subject to regulatory approval, Aflac Japan will work in consultation with Japan Post to develop a unique Aflac-branded cancer product for Japan Post and Kampo. Additionally, Aflac Japan has formed a business partnership with Daido Life Insurance Company (Daido). Daido will sell Aflac's cancer insurance policies to members of Hojinkai, a non-profit organization associated with 900,000 small and mid-sized member firms across Japan.



For additional information on Aflac Japan's distribution, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution - U.S.

Our U.S. sales force comprises sales associates and brokers who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance. Sales associates and brokers are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, district, regional and state sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Administrative personnel in Georgia, New York, Nebraska, and South Carolina handle policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims.



We concentrate on marketing our insurance products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals through employment, trade and other associations. Historically, our policies have been individually underwritten with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac's individual policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized billing. With our brokerage sales expansion and the acquisition of CAIC, branded as Aflac Group Insurance, we offer group voluntary insurance products desired by many large employers. These products are sold on a group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue. Worksite marketing enables sales associates and brokers to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business.



At the end of2013, our distribution network comprised more than76,300licensed sales associates and brokers. To enhance the recruiting of sales associates, the bonus structure for our state and regional coordinators incorporates a people development component. In addition, we hold national recruiting contests to incentivize producer recruitment. We also partner with our field offices for recruiting workshops that focus on improving coordinator productivity by emphasizing candidate sourcing, interviewing, and contract acceptance.

We are working on several key initiatives that support our multi-faceted distribution network in reaching out to businesses of all sizes. In




For additional information on Aflac's U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.










Competition - Japan

In 1974, Aflac was granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign companies, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market-leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. Aflac is the largest life insurer in Japan in terms of individual policies in force. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we exceeded22 millionindividual policies in force in Japan.



Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer policies in Japan, with more than14 millioncancer policies in force as ofDecember 31, 2013. Aflac continued to be the number one seller of cancer insurance policies in Japan throughout2013. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, expansive marketing system (see Distribution - Japan above) and product expertise.

We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we believe our products stand out for their value to consumers.

In addition to third sector products, Aflac Japan sells life insurance products such as WAYS (described in the Products section of this report). These sales are generated largely through the bank channel. The market for ordinary life products of this kind is highly competitive. We will continue to pursue the development and marketing of specialty products that meet specific needs within the general life insurance market.

Competition - U.S.

Aflac competes against several voluntary supplemental insurance carriers on a national and regional basis. We believe our policies, premium rates, and sales commissions are competitive by product type. Moreover, we believe that  Aflac products are distinct from competitive offerings given our product focus (including features, benefits, and our claims service model), distribution capabilities, and brand awareness. For many companies with which we compete, voluntary supplemental insurance products are sold as a secondary business. However, a growing number of major medical and life insurance carriers are entering into the voluntary supplemental insurance market. For Aflac, supplemental insurance products are our primary business and are sold via a large distribution network of independent sales associates and brokers. Aflac's advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and understanding by consumers and businesses of the value our products provide.



Both private and publicly-traded insurers offer major medical insurance for hospitalization and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis to accounts that are both fully and self-insured. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various programs. Major medical insurance generally covers a substantial portion of the medical expenses incurred by an insured. Aflac policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance by paying cash directly to the policyholder to use for expenses their major medical insurance is not designed to cover. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. Any reduction of coverage, increase in employee participation costs, or increased deductibles and copayments by major medical commercial or government insurance carriers could favorably affect our business opportunities. With the implementation of the ACA, we anticipate a larger burden of the cost of care will be borne by some consumers, potentially creating a favorable impact on key markets for Aflac products. We also expect the ACA potentially will result in a more competitive landscape for Aflac, as major medical carriers face profitability erosion in some of their core lines of business and seek competitive entry into Aflac's supplemental product segments to offset this impact.












Investments and Investment Results

Net investment income was$3.3 billionin2013,$3.5 billionin2012and$3.3 billionin2011. In2013, net investment income in Japan in dollar terms was negatively impacted by the weakening of the yen. In addition, the growth rate of net investment income has been negatively impacted by the low level of investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan's life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number of years. For information on our investments and investment results, see the Insurance Operations and Analysis of Financial Condition sections of MD&A and Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Regulation - Japan



The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan's Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. For example, under Japanese regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are expensed immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different basis; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of securities transferred to held-to-maturity is different; policyholder protection corporation obligations are not accrued; premium income is recognized on a cash basis; different consolidation criteria apply to variable interest entities; and different accounting for reinsurance. Capital and surplus of Aflac Japan, based on Japanese regulatory accounting practices, was$4.2 billionatDecember 31, 2013, compared with$3.9 billionatDecember 31, 2012.



The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio (SMR) was777%, compared with669%atDecember 31, 2012. See the Capital Resources and Liquidity Section of MD&A for a discussion of measures we took in 2013 to increase and mitigate the sensitivity of Aflac Japan's SMR.



We typically repatriate a portion of Aflac Japan's accumulated earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, annually to Aflac U.S. provided that Aflac Japan has adequately protected policyholders' interests as measured by its SMR. The FSA may not allow profit repatriations to Aflac U.S. if the transfers would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. In the near term, we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations, nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company.

In 2005, legislation aimed at privatizing Japan’s postal system (Japan Post) was enacted into law. The privatization laws split Japan Post into four operating entities that began operating in October 2007. In 2007, one of these entities selected Aflac Japan as its provider of cancer insurance to be sold through its post offices, and, in 2008, we began selling cancer insurance through these post offices. Japan Post has historically been a popular place for consumers to purchase insurance products. Legislation to reform the postal system passed the Diet in April 2012 and resulted in the merger of two of the postal operating entities (the one that delivers the mail and the one that runs the post offices) on October 1, 2012. In July 2013, Aflac Japan entered into a new agreement with Japan Post Holdings to further expand the partnership that was initially established in 2008 (see Distribution-Japan).



The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection subsection of MD&A in this report.

In June 2013, a revision to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act established a post-funded Orderly Resolution Regime for financial institutions to prevent a financial crisis in the event of a financial institution’s failure. This regime is expected to come into effect in March 2014, but is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's operations in Japan.



As a branch of our principal insurance subsidiary, Aflac Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation - U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan's operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.












Regulation - U.S.

The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries, Aflac (a Nebraska-domiciled insurance company), American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company) and CAIC (a South Carolina-domiciled insurance company) are subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system.

Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which it does business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things:

•granting and revoking licenses to transact business

•regulating trade and claims practices

•licensing of insurance agents and brokers

•approval of policy forms and premium rates

•standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements

•capital requirements

•limitations on dividends to shareholders

•the nature of and limitations on investments

•deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders

•filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities

•periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies

The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern Aflac's activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of any person controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, the Parent Company) must generally file with the Nebraska Department of Insurance an application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and published regulations and provide a copy to Aflac. In Nebraska, control is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance company. The 10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York and South Carolina, the domiciliary jurisdictions of the Parent Company's other insurance subsidiaries, Aflac New York and CAIC.

State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). In 2013, the Nebraska insurance regulator, along with the New York insurance regulator, completed a coordinated risk-focused full scope financial examination for the four-year period and three-year period, respectively, ended December 31, 2011 for Aflac and Aflac New York as part of the normal examination process. These examinations found no material deficiencies. Also, in 2011 the South Carolina insurance regulator completed a risk-focused full scope financial examination for the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 for CAIC as part of the normal examination process and found no material deficiencies.



The NAIC continually reviews regulatory matters and recommends changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments. The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer's operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific










trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac's NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. As ofDecember 31, 2013, based on year-end statutory accounting results, Aflac's company action level risk-based capital (RBC) ratio was786%.







Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations issued thereunder may have an impact on Aflac's derivative activity, including activity on behalf of Aflac Japan, in particular rules and rule proposals to require central clearing and collateral for certain types of derivatives.



The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. Traditionally, U.S. insurance companies have been regulated primarily by state insurance departments. In December 2013, the FIO released a report entitled "How To Modernize And Improve The System Of Insurance Regulation In The United States." The report was required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and included 18 recommended areas of near-term reform for the states, including addressing capital adequacy and safety/soundness issues, reform of insurer resolution practices, and reform of marketplace regulation. The report also listed nine recommended areas for direct federal involvement in insurance regulation.



On December 10, 2013, five U.S. financial regulators adopted a final rule implementing the "Volcker Rule," which was created by Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits "banking entities" from engaging in "proprietary trading" and making investments and conducting certain other activities with "private equity funds and hedge funds." The final rule becomes effective April 1, 2014; however, at the time the agencies released the final Volcker Rule, the Federal Reserve announced an extension of the conformance period for all banking entities until July 21, 2015. In response to industry questions regarding the final Volcker Rule, the five U.S. financial regulators, which included the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC); the Federal Reserve; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); the SEC and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), issued a clarifying interim final rule on January










14, 2014 that permits banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by trust preferred securities if the CDO meets certain requirements.



Nonbank financial companies such as Aflac that are not affiliated with an insured depository institution or otherwise brought within the definition of "banking entity" generally will not be subject to the Volcker Rule's prohibitions. However, the prohibitions of the Volcker Rule could impact financial markets generally, for example, through reduced liquidity in certain markets or the exiting of positions by banking entities as the end of the conformance period approaches.



The Dodd-Frank Act requires extensive rule-making and other future regulatory action, which in some cases will take a period of years to implement. However, at the current time, it is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our U.S. business, financial condition, or results of operations.



In September 2013, the Nebraska Department of Insurance chaired the first meeting of the Aflac Supervisory College, which included the attendance of Japan's Financial Services Agency. Consistent with international regulatory standards and supervisory best practices, the Supervisory College was established as a forum for cooperation and communication between the Company's supervisors globally. At this initial meeting, the supervisors agreed to hold the meeting annually with the next meeting in 2014.



For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation, change of control and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Other Operations

Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations subsection of MD&A.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, Aflac Japan had4,524employees, Aflac U.S. had4,335employees, and our other operations, the Parent Company and printing subsidiary, had282employees.










Executive Officers of the Registrant





NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE

Daniel P. AmosChairman, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2001; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 199062



Paul S. Amos IIPresident, Aflac, since 2007; Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Operations, Aflac, from 2006 until 201338



Koji AriyoshiExecutive Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan, since 2012; First Senior Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan, from 2010 until 2011; Senior Vice President, Deputy Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan from 2008 until 200960



Susan R. BlanckExecutive Vice President, Aflac Japan, since 2012; Executive Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, since 2011; First Senior Vice President, Aflac Japan, from 2008 until 2012; Senior Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, until 201147



Kriss Cloninger IIIPresident, Aflac Incorporated, since 2001; Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 1992; Treasurer, Aflac Incorporated, since 2001; Executive Vice President, Aflac, since 199366



Masahiko FurutaniDeputy President, Aflac Japan, since 2013; Executive Vice President, Aflac Japan, from 2012 until 2013; Executive Director, Mizuho Bank, from 2011 until 2012; Senior Vice President, Mizuho Bank, from 2009 until 2011; General Manager, Mizuho Bank from 1980 until 200956



June HowardChief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2010; Treasurer, Aflac, since 2011; Senior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2010; Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac, from 2009 until 2010; Head of IFRS and U.S. GAAP for ING's U.S. operations from 2006 until 200947



Kenneth S. JankePresident, Aflac U.S., since 2013; Executive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since 2010;  Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, from 1993 until 201055



Eric M. KirschExecutive Vice President, Global Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, since 2012; First Senior Vice President, Global Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, from 2011 until 2012; Managing Director, Global Head of Insurance Asset Management, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, from 2007 until 201153



Charles D. Lake IIPresident, Aflac International, since 2014; Chairman, Aflac Japan, since 2008; Vice Chairman, Aflac Japan until 200852



Joey M. LoudermilkExecutive Vice President, General Counsel, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 1983; Director, Legal and Governmental Relations, Aflac, since 1983; Corporate Secretary, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, from 1994 until 201260



Audrey B. TillmanExecutive Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, since 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, until 200849



Tohru TonoikePresident, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac Japan, since 200763



Teresa L. WhiteExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac, since 2013; Executive Vice President, Chief Service Officer, Aflac, from 2012 until 2013; Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, from 2008 until 2013; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, until 200847



Robin Y. WilkeySenior Vice President, Investor and Rating Agency Relations, Aflac Incorporated, since 2010; Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, from 2003 until 201055



Hiroshi YamauchiExecutive Vice President, Aflac Japan, since 2012; First Senior Vice President, Aflac Japan, from 2002 until 201162

(1)

Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.












