ITEM 1. BUSINESS

We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on forward-looking information, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report.

Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). Our Internet address is aflac.com. The information on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on the Investors portion of our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



General Description

Aflac Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing management services and making capital available. Its principal business is voluntary supplemental and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac's policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Aflac U.S. markets and administers group products through Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), branded as Aflac Group Insurance. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business.

On December 2, 2016, we publicly announced that we will pursue the conversion of Aflac Japan from a branch structure to a subsidiary structure, with the subsidiary incorporated as a “Kabushiki Kaisha.” While the branch structure remains an acceptable legal form, the subsidiary structure has emerged as the more prevalent structure for both domestic and foreign companies operating in Japan. In addition, emerging global regulatory standards generally favor the subsidiary structure for foreign insurance and financial service companies. The adoption of this new organizational framework is expected to be tax-neutral and not to have a material impact on the daily operations of either Aflac Japan or Aflac U.S. as a result of this conversion. In addition, we expect to obtain enhanced flexibility in capital management and business development as a result of the conversion. We anticipate completion of the conversion in mid-2018.



Aflac offers voluntary insurance policies in Japan and the United States that provide a layer of financial protection against income and asset loss. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells voluntary supplemental insurance products, including cancer plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans, living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells voluntary supplemental insurance products including products designed to protect individuals from depletion of assets (accident, cancer, critical illness/care, hospital indemnity, fixed-benefit dental, and vision care plans) and loss-of-income products (life and short-term disability plans).



We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan's revenues, including realized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, accounted for71%of the Company's total revenues in2016, compared with70%in2015and72%in2014. The percentage of the Company's total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was83%at bothDecember 31, 2016and2015.

Reporting Segments

Aflac's insurance business consists of two reporting segments: Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S. Aflac Japan, which currently operates as a branch of Aflac, is the principal contributor to the Parent Company’s consolidated earnings. The conversion of Aflac Japan to a subsidiary structure is not expected to affect our segment reporting structure.

For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.








Foreign Currency Translation

Aflac Japan’s premiums and approximately half of its investment income are received in yen. Claims and most expenses are paid in yen, and we purchase yen-denominated assets and U.S. dollar-denominated assets, which may be hedged to yen, to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into dollars for financial reporting purposes. For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Market Risks of Financial Instruments - Currency Risk subsections of MD&A and Notes 1 and 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Insurance Premiums

The growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were$19.2 billionin2016,$17.6billion in2015, and$19.1billion in2014. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac's insurance business for the years ended December 31.(In millions)201620152014Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$19,173$18,894$20,440New sales, including conversions2,5272,4842,513Change in unprocessed new sales(46)(41)13Premiums lapsed and surrendered(2,102)(2,104)(2,146)Other(351)(56)(29)Foreign currency translation adjustment483(4)(1,897)Annualized premiums in force, end of year$19,684$19,173$18,894

Japan

We translate Aflac Japan's annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31.

In DollarsIn Yen(In millions of dollars and billions of yen)201620152014201620152014Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$13,413$13,226$14,8701,6171,5941,567New sales, including conversions1,0459971,080114121115Change in unprocessed new sales(46)(41)13(5)(5)1Premiums lapsed and surrendered(623)(578)(695)(68)(70)(74)Other(484)(187)(145)(52)(23)(15)Foreign currency translation adjustment483(4)(1,897)000Annualized premiums in force, end of year$13,788$13,413$13,2261,6061,6171,594

For further information regarding Aflac Japan's financial results and sales, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



U.S.

The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31.

(In millions)201620152014Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$5,760$5,668$5,570New sales, including conversions1,4821,4871,433Premiums lapsed(1,479)(1,526)(1,451)Other133131116Annualized premiums in force, end of year$5,896$5,760$5,668








For further information regarding Aflac's U.S. financial results and sales, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



Insurance Products

Aflac JapanAflac U.S.Third Sector InsuranceCancerCancerAccidentMedicalShort-Term DisabilityIncome SupportCritical IllnessFirst Sector InsuranceHospital IndemnityLifeDentalProtectionVisionTermLife (Term, Whole)WholeSavingsHybrid (WAYS)Child Endowment



Japan

Aflac Japan's insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan's national health insurance system. Changes in Japan's economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan's national health care system. As a result, more costs have been shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products.



In early 2002, we introduced EVER, a stand-alone, whole-life medical insurance product which offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium. Since its initial introduction, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings to appeal to specific types of Japanese consumers and achieve greater market penetration. In June 2015, we upgraded our EVER insurance product to include riders to be associated with three critical illnesses (cancer, heart attack, and stroke) to better respond to consumer’s needs for coverage of serious illnesses. These riders provide policyholders with a benefit upon the diagnosis for those three critical illnesses, waiver of premium payment thereafter and unlimited hospital days for such critical illnesses. Gentle EVER, our non-standard medical insurance product, is designed to meet the needs of certain consumers who cannot qualify for our base EVER plan. An upgrade to our Gentle EVER insurance product, released in July 2012, included expanded benefits and an attached advanced medical care rider.In March 2016, we made revisions to our Gentle EVER insurance product to enhance its alignment with changing customer needs.










We believe that the affordable cancer and medical insurance products Aflac Japan provides will continue to be an important part of our product portfolio. Nevertheless, as we continue our long history of product innovation, Aflac Japan's product portfolio has expanded beyond traditional health-related products.



In July 2016, we launched a new third sector product called Income Support Insurance. This product provides fixed-benefit amounts in the event that a policyholder is unable to work due to significant illness or injury and was developed to supplement the disability coverage within Japan’s social security system. This product targets young to middle-aged consumers, and by focusing our efforts on this demographic, we believe we are building relationships that lay the groundwork for the sale of our cancer and medical insurance later in life to the Income Support policyholders.





For additional information on Aflac Japan's products and composition of sales, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



U.S.

We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Most of our U.S. policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, we started to market and administer group insurance products in 2009.



Our individually issued policies are portable and pay benefits regardless of other insurance. Most products' benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders; therefore, our customers have the opportunity to use this cash to help with expenses of their choosing. Our individually issued health insurance plans are typically guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 75 for short-term disability policies).



Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis. In 2013 and 2014, we introduced a completely redesigned group short-term disability product with enhanced benefit options and higher income replacement amounts.



Aflac U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. In 2015,we introduced a new individual accident plan with new benefits for home modifications, improved wellness benefits and a new benefit that provides an additional payout for injuries related to participations in an organized sporting activity.



Aflac U.S. offers coverage for critical care on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke, or cancer. On an individually underwritten basis we offer cancer plans, critical illness plans, and critical care and recovery plans (formerly called specified health event). On a group basis we offer critical illness plans. In 2015, an updated group critical illness plan was introduced that provides benefits for 30 additional conditions in addition to more consumer options.



Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Our hospital indemnity products provide policyholders fixed dollar benefits triggered by hospitalization due to accident or sickness, or just sickness alone. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic events, are also available. We also offer a lump sum rider than can be added to our individual accident, short-term disability and hospital indemnity








products. This rider, where available, provides a lump sum payment for a range of critical illness events including traumatic brain injury, Type 1 diabetes, advanced Alzheimer’s disease and many more. In January 2016, a new group hospital indemnity plan was introduced that includes 11 new benefits, including telemedicine and health screening. This plan provides flexibility, allowing our clients to personalize their plan designs to complement the underlying medical coverage that is offered to employees.



Aflac U.S. offers additional coverages to those listed above, including dental, vision and life policies. Aflac U.S. offers fixed-benefit dental coverage on both an individual and group basis. Aflac U.S. offers Vision NowSM, an individually issued policy which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight as well as coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits. Aflac U.S. also offers term- and whole-life policies on both an individual and group basis.



For additional information on Aflac's U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.



Distribution Channels

Aflac JapanAflac U.S.Individual/ Independent Corporate AgenciesIndependent AssociatesAffiliated Corporate AgenciesBrokersBanks



Japan



The traditional channels through which we have sold our products consist of individual agents/agencies, independent corporate agencies, and affiliated corporate agencies. The individual agencies and independent corporate agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at a vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents' activities are primarily focused on insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Affiliated corporate agencies are originally formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees as part of a benefit package, and then expand to sell our products to other parties such as suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites, and some of them are also successful in approaching customers outside their business groups. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan's competitive commissions, attractive products, superior customer service and strong brand image.



We have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974. However, December 2007 marked the first time it was permissible for banks to sell our type of insurance products to their customers. By the end of2016, we had agreements with approximately90%of the total number of banks in Japan, to sell our products. We believe we have more banks selling our supplemental health insurance products than any of our competitors. Japanese consumers rely on banks to provide traditional bank services, and also to provide insurance solutions and other services. We believe our long-standing and strong relationships within the Japanese banking sector, along with our strategic preparations, have proven to be an advantage, particularly starting when this channel opened up for our products. Our partnerships throughout the banking sector provide us with a wider demographic of potential customers than we would otherwise have been able to reach, and it also allows banks to expand their product and service offerings to consumers.










For additional information on Aflac Japan's distribution, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

U.S.

As of December 31,2016, our U.S. sales force was composed of sales associates and brokers who are licensed to sell accident and health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance.



Sales associates and brokers are independent contractors and are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal production, district and regional sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses.

We believe that changes we made to our career and broker management infrastructure over the last 30 months are laying the foundation for expanded long-term growth opportunities. During 2014, Aflac U.S. implemented tactical initiatives centered around providing competitive compensation to our career agent sales hierarchy and positioning us to more effectively and consistently execute on the U.S. sales strategy across all states. These measures were designed to more effectively link sales management's success to Aflac's success. For example, we enhanced compensation through an incentive bonus for the first level of our sales management, district sales coordinators, who are primarily responsible for selling Aflac products and training new sales associates. Additionally, we eliminated the commission-based position of state sales coordinator. To better manage our state operations, we introduced the new position of market director, effective October 1, 2014. Market directors are salaried with the opportunity to earn sales-related bonuses. We believe these changes have enhanced and will continue to enhance performance management and better align compensation with new business results.



We concentrate on marketing our insurance products at the worksite. This method offers policies to individuals through employment, trade and other associations. Historically, our policies have been individually underwritten with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac's individual policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized billing. With our brokerage sales expansion and CAIC, branded as Aflac Group Insurance, we offer group voluntary insurance products desired by many large employers. These products are sold on a group basis and often have some element of guaranteed issue. Worksite marketing enables sales associates and brokers to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business.



Aflac U.S. utilizes dual-channel distribution to market our insurance products to businesses of all sizes. Our career agent channel focuses on marketing Aflac to the small business market, which consists of employers with less than 100 employees. As such, we have aligned our recruiting, training, compensation, marketing and incentives for our career agents to encourage specific activity and sales of individual policies in this market. Our newest channel is the broker channel, which is a sales division of Aflac Group. The broker channel focuses on selling to the mid- and large-case market, which is comprised of employers with more than 100 employees and typically an average size of 1,000 employees or more. Since regional and national brokers have traditionally served the mid- and large-case market, the highly trained and experienced sales professionals of the broker channel are assigned a geographic market to strengthen relationships with the top brokers and sell Aflac products to their clients. As a result, we are represented on more than 80 benefit administration platforms, sometimes referred to as exchanges, of various brokers.



For additional information on Aflac's U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.








Competition

Japan

In 1974, Aflac was granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer insurance policy sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign companies, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products for the first time. The second period began in 2001 when all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market-leading position has been significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. Aflac is the largest life insurer in Japan in terms of cancer and medical policies in force. As ofDecember 31, 2016, we exceeded24 millionindividual policies in force in Japan.



Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer policies in Japan, with more than15 millioncancer policies in force as ofDecember 31, 2016. Aflac continued to be the number one seller of cancer insurance policies in Japan throughout2016. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, expansive marketing system (see Distribution - Japan above) and product expertise.



We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we endeavor to make our products stand out for their value to consumers.



U.S.

Aflac competes against several voluntary supplemental insurance carriers on a national and regional basis. We believe our policies, premium rates, and sales commissions are competitive by product type. Moreover, we believe that Aflac products are distinct from competitive offerings given our product focus (including features, benefits, and our claims service model), distribution capabilities, and brand awareness. For many companies with which we compete, voluntary supplemental insurance products are sold as a secondary business. A growing number of major medical and life insurance carriers are also entering into the voluntary supplemental insurance market. For Aflac, supplemental insurance products are our primary business and are sold via a distribution network of independent sales associates and brokers (see U.S. Distribution above). Aflac's advertising campaigns have increased our name awareness and understanding by consumers and businesses of the value our products provide.



Both private and publicly-traded insurers offer major medical insurance for hospitalization and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis to accounts that are both fully and self-insured. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment through various programs. Major medical insurance generally covers a substantial portion of the medical expenses incurred by an insured. Aflac policies are designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance by paying cash directly to the policyholder to use for expenses their major medical insurance is not designed to cover. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers except those who sell supplemental insurance products as a secondary business. Any reduction of coverage, increase in employee participation costs, or increased deductibles and copayments by major medical commercial or government insurance carriers could favorably affect our business opportunities. Since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA)



beginning in 2010, some employers have shifted a larger burden of the cost of care to their employees, primarily through increases in premiums, copays, and/or deductibles. Since Aflac products provide an additional level of financial protection for policyholders, we believe the increased financial exposure some employees may face creates a favorable opportunity for our products. However, given the profitability erosion some major medical carriers are facing in their core lines of business, we have seen a more competitive landscape as they seek entry into Aflac's supplemental product segments in an effort to offset this impact.



One Day PaySMis a claims initiative that we have introduced at Aflac U.S. to process, approve and pay eligible claims in just one day. We believe that along with our brand and relevant products, this claims practice has helped Aflac stand out from competitors.










Investments and Investment Results

Net investment income was$3.3 billionin2016,$3.1 billionin2015and$3.3 billionin2014. The increase in the reported net investment income in U.S. dollar terms for 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due totranslation of yen-denominated income. In 2016, we continued to address the challenge of investing in this low-interest-rate environment by increasing our allocation to higher yielding asset classes, while still adhering to our strategic asset allocation. For further information on our investments and investment results, see the Insurance Operations and Analysis of Financial Condition sections of MD&A and Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Regulation



Japan



The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan's FSA. Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. For example, under Japanese regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are expensed immediately; policy benefit and claim reserving methods and assumptions are different; premium income is recognized on a cash basis; different consolidation criteria apply to variable interest entities (VIEs); different accounting applies to reinsurance; and investments can have a separate accounting classification and treatment referred to as policy reserve matching bonds (PRM). Capital and surplus of Aflac Japan, based on Japanese regulatory accounting practices, was$5.6 billionatDecember 31, 2016, compared with$4.7 billionatDecember 31, 2015.



The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. As ofDecember 31, 2016, Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio (SMR) was945%, compared with828%atDecember 31, 2015. Aflac Japan's SMR is sensitive to interest rate, credit spread and foreign exchange rate changes. In 2015, Aflac Japan made additional investments in yen-denominated public equity securities and in 2016 invested in U.S. dollar-denominated public equity securities, thereby adding sensitivity to equity market fluctuations. See the Capital Resources and Liquidity Section of MD&A for a discussion of measures we have taken to mitigate the sensitivity of Aflac Japan's SMR.



We typically repatriate a portion of Aflac Japan's accumulated earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, to Aflac U.S. provided that Aflac Japan has adequately protected policyholders' interests as measured by its SMR. The FSA may not allow profit repatriations to Aflac U.S. if the transfers would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. In the near term, we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations, nor do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company. Upon conversion of Aflac Japan to a subsidiary structure, which we anticipate completing in mid-2018, the new subsidiary will distribute dividends instead of internal profit repatriation. Such dividends will be subject to permitted dividend capacity under the Japan Company Law.



The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see the Policyholder Protection subsection of MD&A in this report.

In June 2013, a revision to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act established a post-funded Orderly Resolution Regime for financial institutions to prevent a financial crisis in the event of a financial institution’s failure. This regime came into effect in March 2014 and has not had, and is not expected to have, a material impact on the Company's operations in Japan.



As a branch of our principal insurance subsidiary, Aflac Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see U.S. Regulation below). For additional information regarding Aflac Japan's operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.










U.S.

General

The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries, Aflac (a Nebraska-domiciled insurance company), American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company) and CAIC (redomiciled from South Carolina to Nebraska effective December 2016) are subject to state regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system.

Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which it does business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things:

•granting and revoking licenses to transact business

•regulating trade and claims practices

•licensing of insurance agents and brokers

•approval of policy forms and premium rates

•standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements

•capital requirements

•limitations on dividends to shareholders

•the nature of and limitations on investments

•deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders

•filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities

•periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies

The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern Aflac's activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of any person controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, the Parent Company) must generally file with the Nebraska Department of Insurance (NDOI) an application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and published regulations and provide a copy to Aflac. In Nebraska, control is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance company. The 10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York, the domiciliary jurisdiction of the Parent Company's Aflac New York insurance subsidiary.

State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). In 2016, full-scope, risk-focused financial examinations were conducted by the NDOI, New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS), and the South Carolina Department of Insurance (SCDOI) on their state domiciled insurance entities American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, American Family Life Assurance Company of New York, and Continental American Insurance Company, respectively. The NDOI and NYDFS exams covered a four-year period ending December 31, 2015, whereas the SCDOI exam covered a five-year period ending December 31, 2015. There were no material findings contained in the NDOI and SCDOI final exam report. The exam report from the NYDFS has not been finalized as of January 2017.



The NAIC continually reviews regulatory matters,such as risk-based capital (RBC) modernization and principles-based reserving, and recommends changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments. The NAIC uses a risk-based capital formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to








facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer's operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac's NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and surplus position. As ofDecember 31, 2016, based on year-end statutory accounting results, Aflac's company action level RBC ratio was894%.



Under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. In the United States, some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. The Company's policy is to accrue assessments when the entity for which the insolvency relates has met its state of domicile's statutory definition of insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable and the related premium upon which the assessment is based is written. In most states, the definition is met with a declaration of financial insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction. For additional information regarding state insurance guaranty assessments, see the U.S. Regulatory Environment subsection of MD&A in this report.



Reform Legislation





Dodd-Frank Act



Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations issued thereunder, in particular rules to require central clearing and collateral for certain types of derivatives, may have an impact on Aflac's derivative activity, including activity on behalf of Aflac Japan. In 2015 and 2016, six U.S. financial regulators, including the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), issued final rules that impose greater obligations on swap dealers regarding uncleared swaps with certain counterparties, such as Aflac. Such rules, as well as similar regulations in Europe, become effective on March 1, 2017 and may result in more stringent collateral requirements or affect other aspects of Aflac's derivatives activity.



The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. Traditionally, U.S. insurance companies have been regulated primarily by state insurance departments. In December 2013, the FIO released a report entitled "How To Modernize And Improve The System Of Insurance Regulation In The United States." The report was required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and included 18 recommended areas of near-term reform for the states, including addressing capital adequacy and safety/soundness issues, reform of insurer resolution practices, and reform of marketplace regulation. The report also listed nine recommended areas for direct federal involvement in insurance regulation. Some of the recommendations outlined in the FIO report released in December 2013 have been implemented. The National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers Reform Act, signed into law in January 2015, simplifies the agent and broker licensing process across state lines. The FIO has also engaged with the supervisory colleges to monitor financial stability and identify regulatory gaps for large national and internationally active insurers.



In the 115th Congress, several proposals have been introduced to reform the Dodd-Frank Act, including proposals to limit or repeal the Financial Stability Oversight Council's (the Council) ability to designate nonbank financial companies as








Systemically Important Financial Institutions (SIFI), eliminate the FIO, and increase Congressional oversight of the regulation issuing process.  The new presidential administration in the United States and Congress have stated proposals to reform or repeal certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what impact, if any, such proposals will have on our U.S. business, financial condition, or results of operations.



Further Information



For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation, change of control and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.



Other Operations

Our other operations include the Parent Company, results of reinsurance retrocession activities, and a printing subsidiary. For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations subsection of MD&A and Note 8 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2016, Aflac Japan had4,958employees, Aflac U.S. had4,944employees, and our other operations had310employees.








Executive Officers of the Registrant





NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE

Daniel P. AmosChairman, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2001; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 199065



Paul S. Amos IIPresident, Aflac, since 2007; Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Operations, Aflac, from 2006 until 201341



Koji AriyoshiExecutive Vice President, Director of Sales and Marketing, Aflac Japan, since 201263





Kriss Cloninger IIIPresident, Aflac Incorporated, since 2001; Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, from 1992 until 2015; Treasurer, Aflac Incorporated, from 2001 until 2015; Executive Vice President, Aflac, since 199369



Frederick J. CrawfordExecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since 2015; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, CNO Financial Group from 2012 until 2015; Executive Vice President, Head of Investment and Corporate Development, Lincoln Financial Group from  2010 until 201253



J. Todd DanielsExecutive Vice President, Chief Actuary, Aflac Incorporated, since 2016; Global Chief Risk Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since 2016; Senior Vice President, Chief Actuary, Aflac, from 2015 until 2016; Global Chief Risk Officer, Aflac, from 2014 until 2016; Senior Vice President, Deputy Corporate Actuary, Aflac, from 2012 until 2014; Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, Aflac, from 2011 until 201246



June HowardChief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2010; Senior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2010;Treasurer, Aflac, from 2011 until 201550



Kenneth S. JankeExecutive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Development, Treasurer, Aflac Incorporatedand Aflac, since 2015; Executive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, from 2010 until 2015; President, Aflac U.S., from 2013 until 201458



Eric M. KirschExecutive Vice President, Global Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, since 2012; First Senior Vice President, Global Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, from 2011 until 201256



Charles D. Lake IIPresident, Aflac International, since 2014; Chairman, Aflac Japan, since 200855



Audrey B. TillmanExecutive Vice President, General Counsel, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since 2014; Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, from 2008 until 201452



Teresa L. WhitePresident, Aflac U.S., since 2014; Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac, from 2013 until 2014; Executive Vice President, Chief Service Officer, Aflac, from 2012 until 2013; Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, from 2008 until 201350



Robin Y. WilkeySenior Vice President, Investor and Rating Agency Relations, Aflac Incorporated, since 201058



Hiroshi YamauchiPresident, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac Japan, since 2015; Executive Vice President, Aflac Japan, from 2012 until 201465

(1)Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.














