ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We prepare our financial statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This report includes certain forward-looking information that is based on current expectations and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. For details on
forward-looking information, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Part II, Item 7, of this report.

Aflac Incorporated qualifies as a large accelerated filer within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 12b-2. Our Internet address is aflac.com.
The information on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practicable after those forms have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

General Description

Aflac
Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. Aflac Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by providing
management services and making capital available. Its principal business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and administered through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac), which operates
in the United States (Aflac U.S.) and as a branch in Japan (Aflac Japan). Most of Aflac’s policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, Aflac U.S. markets and administers group products through
Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), referred to as Aflac Group Insurance. Our insurance operations in the United States and our branch in Japan service the two markets for our insurance business.

Aflac offers voluntary insurance policies in Japan and the United States that provide a layer of financial protection against income and asset
loss. We continue to diversify our product offerings in both Japan and the United States. Aflac Japan sells voluntary supplemental insurance products, including cancer plans, general medical indemnity plans, medical/sickness riders, care plans,
living benefit life plans, ordinary life insurance plans and annuities. Aflac U.S. sells voluntary supplemental insurance products including loss-of-income products (life and short-term disability plans) and products designed to protect individuals
from depletion of assets (hospital indemnity, fixed-benefit dental, vision care, accident, cancer, critical illness/ critical care, and hospital intensive care plans).

We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories and Japan. Aflac Japan’s revenues, including realized gains and losses on its investment
portfolio, accounted for 75% of the Company’s total revenues in 2011 and 2010, compared with 73% in 2009. The percentage of the Company’s total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 87% at December 31, 2011, and 86% at
December 31, 2010.

Results of Operations

For information on our results of operations and financial information by segment, see MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Foreign Currency Translation

For information regarding the effect of currency fluctuations on our business, see the Foreign Currency Translation and Market Risks of Financial
Instruments – Currency Risk subsections of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Insurance Premiums

The
growth of earned premiums is directly affected by the change in premiums in force and by the change in weighted-average yen/dollar exchange rates. Consolidated earned premiums were $20.4 billion in 2011, $18.1 billion







Index to Financial Statements

in 2010, and $16.6 billion in 2009. For additional information on the composition of earned premiums by segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac’s insurance business for the years ended December 31.



(In millions)201120102009Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$20,380$17,990$17,550New sales, including conversions3,5032,9352,763Change in unprocessed new sales35(73)(92)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(2,204)(2,226)(2,207)Other(3)15120Foreign currency translation adjustment7611,739(144)Annualized premiums in force, end of year$22,472$20,380$17,990

Insurance – Japan

We translate Aflac Japan’s annualized premiums in force into dollars at the respective end-of-period exchange rates. Changes in annualized premiums in force are translated at weighted-average exchange rates.
The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac Japan for the years ended December 31.



In DollarsIn Yen(In millions of dollars and billions of yen)201120102009201120102009Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$15,408$13,034$12,7611,2561,2001,162New sales, including conversions2,0271,5541,310161136122Change in unprocessed new sales35(73)(92)3(6)(9)Premiums lapsed and surrendered(847)(766)(737)(68)(67)(69)Other(100)(80)(64)(8)(7)(6)Foreign currency translation adjustment7611,739(144)000Annualized premiums in force, end of year$17,284$15,408$13,0341,3441,2561,200

For further information regarding Aflac Japan’s financial results, sales and the Japanese economy, see the
Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance – U.S.

The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force for Aflac U.S. for the years ended December 31.



(In millions)201120102009Annualized premiums in force, beginning of year$4,973$4,956$4,789New sales, including conversions1,4761,3821,453Premiums lapsed(1,357)(1,460)(1,471)Other9695185Annualized premiums in force, end of year$5,188$4,973$4,956

For further information regarding Aflac’s U.S. financial results, sales and the U.S. economy, see the Aflac
U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – Japan

Aflac Japan’s insurance products are designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan’s
national health insurance system. Changes in Japan’s economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan’s national health care system. As a result, more costs are being shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have
become increasingly interested in insurance products that help







Index to Financial Statements

them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products.

Aflac Japan’s product portfolio has expanded beyond traditional health-related products to include more life products. Some of the life
products that we offer in Japan provide death benefits and cash surrender values. These products are available as stand-alone policies and riders. Some plans, such as our WAYS product, have features that allow policyholders to convert a portion of
their life insurance to medical, nursing care, or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. Our child endowment product offers a death benefit until a child reaches age 18. It also pays a lump-sum benefit at the time of the child’s entry
into high school, as well as an educational annuity for each of the four years during his or her college education. We believe that life insurance products provide further opportunities for us to sell our third sector cancer and medical products.

Aflac Japan’s stand-alone medical product, EVER, offers a basic level of hospitalization coverage with an affordable premium.
Since its initial introduction in 2002, we have expanded our suite of EVER product offerings to appeal to specific types of Japanese consumers and achieve greater market penetration. New EVER, introduced in 2009, offers enhanced surgical benefits
and gender-specific premium rates. The most recent upgrade to our New EVER product, released in January 2012, includes more advanced medical treatment options than its predecessor. Gentle EVER, our non-standard medical product, is designed to meet
the needs of certain consumers who cannot qualify for our base EVER plan. We continue to believe that the entire medical category will remain an important part of our product portfolio in Japan.

The cancer insurance plans we offer in Japan provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer and a fixed daily benefit for
hospitalization and outpatient services related to cancer as well as surgical, convalescent and terminal care benefits. In March 2011, we introduced a new base cancer policy, DAYS, and a bridge policy, DAYS PLUS, which upgrades older cancer
policies. The enhancements in this new base policy are a response to the changes in cancer treatment. As the number one provider of cancer insurance in Japan, we believe this new product will further strengthen our brand, and most importantly,
provide valuable benefits to consumers who are looking for solutions to cancer-related costs. We are convinced that the affordable cancer products Aflac Japan provides will continue to be an important part of our product portfolio.

We also offer traditional fixed-income annuities and care policies. For additional information on Aflac Japan’s products and composition of
sales, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Insurance Products – U.S.

We design our U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage. Most
of our U.S. policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents. Additionally, we started to market and administer group insurance products in 2009.

Our individually issued policies are portable and pay regardless of other insurance. Benefits are paid in cash directly to policyholders; therefore, our customers have the opportunity to use this cash to help with
expenses of their choosing. Our individually issued health insurance plans are guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 75 for short-term disability policies). Our group insurance policies are underwritten on a group basis
and often have some element of guaranteed issue. This coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract or upon termination
of the master policy group contract.

Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis.

Aflac U.S. also offers term and whole-life coverage sold through payroll deduction at the worksite on both an individual and group
basis and various term and whole-life individual policies on a direct basis.

Aflac U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual
and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from accidents. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for
hospital confinement. In addition, other benefits such as short-term disability are available as riders.

Aflac U.S. offers coverage for
critical illnesses on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to protect against losses resulting from critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke, or even cancer. We offer cancer coverage on an individually underwritten
basis; critical illness/critical care policies on both an individual







Index to Financial Statements

and group basis; critical care and recovery (formerly called specified health event) on an individual basis; and hospital intensive care plans on an individual basis.

Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Our hospital indemnity products may provide fixed daily
benefits for hospitalization due to accident or sickness, or just sickness alone. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic expenses, are also available.

Aflac U.S. offers fixed-benefit dental coverage on both an individual and group basis. Aflac U.S. also offers Vision NowSM, an individually issued policy which provides benefits for serious eye health conditions
and loss of sight. Vision Now includes coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits.

For additional information on
Aflac’s U.S. products and composition of sales, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution – Japan

The traditional channels through which we have sold our products are independent corporate agencies, individual agencies and
affiliated corporate agencies. The independent corporate agencies and individual agencies that sell our products give us better access to workers at a vast number of small businesses in Japan. Agents’ activities are primarily focused on
insurance sales, with customer service support provided by the Aflac Contact Center. Independent corporate agencies and individual agencies contributed 44% of new annualized premium sales in 2011, compared with 51% in 2010 and 55% in 2009.
Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell our insurance products to their employees, suppliers and customers. These agencies help us reach employees at large worksites. Affiliated corporate
agencies contributed 25% of new annualized premium sales in 2011, compared with 31% in 2010 and 35% in 2009. During 2011, we recruited approximately 5,000 new sales agencies. As of December 31, 2011, Aflac Japan was represented by more than
19,700 sales agencies, with more than 120,700 licensed sales associates employed by those agencies. We believe that new agencies will continue to be attracted to Aflac Japan’s high commissions, superior products, customer service and strong
brand image.

We have sold our products to employees of banks since our entry into Japan in 1974. However, December 2007 marked the
first time it was permissible for banks to sell our type of insurance products to their customers. By the end of 2011, we had agreements with 370 banks, approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan, to sell our products. We have
significantly more banks selling our third sector insurance products than any of our competitors. We believe our long-standing and strong relationships within the Japanese banking sector, along with our strategic preparations, have proven to be an
advantage as this channel opened up for our products. Banks contributed 29% of Aflac Japan new annualized premium sales in 2011, compared with 15% in 2010 and 6% in 2009.

We continue to reach consumers through our strategic marketing alliance with Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company (Dai-ichi Life). Since its launch in 2001, we have maintained a close relationship with Dai-ichi Life.
Dai-ichi Life contributed 2% of Aflac Japan new annualized premium sales in 2011, compared with 3% in 2010 and 4% in 2009.

For
additional information on Aflac Japan’s distribution, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Distribution –
U.S.

Our U.S. sales force comprises sales associates and brokers who are independent contractors licensed to sell accident and
health insurance. Many are also licensed to sell life insurance. Sales associates and brokers are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products. In addition to receiving commissions on personal
production, district, regional and state sales coordinators may also receive override commissions and incentive bonuses. Administrative personnel in Georgia, New York, Nebraska, and South Carolina handle policyholder service functions, including
issuance of policies, premium collection, payment notices and claims.







Index to Financial Statements

We concentrate on marketing our insurance products at the worksite. This method offers policies to
individuals through employment, trade and other associations. Historically, our policies have been individually underwritten with premiums generally paid by the employee. Additionally, Aflac’s individual policies are portable, meaning that
individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same premium. We collect a major portion of premiums on such sales through payroll deduction or other forms of centralized
billing. With our brokerage sales expansion and the purchase of CAIC, branded as Aflac Group Insurance, we are now able to offer group voluntary insurance products desired by many large employers. These products are sold on a group basis and often
have some element of guaranteed issue. This coverage is generally not portable, which means the insurance coverage may terminate upon separation from employment or affiliation with the entity holding the group contract. Worksite marketing enables
sales associates and brokers to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders and lowers distribution costs, compared with individually marketed business.

During the past several years, we have enhanced and increased the size of our traditional distribution system. We recruited more than 24,400 new sales associates in 2011, a 10.5% increase compared with 2010,
resulting in approximately 74,800 licensed sales associates at December 31, 2011. To enhance our recruiting results, the bonus structure for our state and regional coordinators incorporates a people development component in addition to sales
results. In 2011 and 2010, we held national recruiting contests to incentivize producer recruitment. In addition, we partnered with our field offices for recruiting workshops that focus on improving coordinator productivity by emphasizing candidate
sourcing, interviewing, and contract acceptance. However, increasing our sales force means more than just recruiting people. We also focus on growing the number of average weekly producers, which measures high-quality, consistent, capable producers
who make solid, consistent contributions to sales.

Insurance brokers have been a historically underleveraged sales channel for Aflac,
but in the past several years, we have been developing relationships with brokers that complement our traditional distribution system. We have assembled a management team experienced in broker sales, and we are supporting this initiative with
streamlined products, targeted broker-specific advertising campaigns, customized enrollment technology, and competitive compensation. We have more than 100 broker development coordinators who are single points of contact for brokers across the
country. Broker development coordinators are responsible for building relationships with new brokers as well as strengthening relationships with our current brokers. These coordinators are assisted by a team of certified case managers whose
role is to coordinate and manage the account enrollments for brokers. Aflac Group Insurance equips us with a platform for offering voluntary group insurance products for distribution by insurance brokers at the worksite. Expanding our product
portfolio with group products also greatly enhances the sales opportunities for our traditional sales force of individual associates.

For additional information on Aflac’s U.S. distribution, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A in this report.

Competition – Japan

In 1974, Aflac was
granted an operating license to sell life insurance in Japan, making Aflac the second non-Japanese life insurance company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market. Through 1981, we faced limited competition for cancer insurance policy
sales. However, Japan has experienced two periods of deregulation since we entered the market. The first came in the early 1980s, when nine mid-sized insurers, including domestic and foreign companies, were allowed to sell cancer insurance products
for the first time. In 2001, all life and non-life insurers were allowed to sell stand-alone cancer and medical insurance products as well as other stand-alone health insurance products. As a result, the number of insurance companies offering
stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the market was deregulated in 2001. However, based on our growth of annualized premiums in force and agencies, we do not believe that our market-leading position has been
significantly impacted by increased competition. Furthermore, we believe the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow us to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. Aflac is the largest life insurer in
Japan in terms of individual policies in force. As of December 31, 2011, we exceeded 21 million individual policies in force in Japan.

Aflac has had substantial success selling cancer policies in Japan, with more than 14 million cancer policies in force as of December 31, 2011. Aflac continued to be the number one seller of cancer
insurance policies in Japan







Index to Financial Statements

throughout 2011. We believe we will remain a leading provider of cancer insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our experience in the market, low-cost operations, unique marketing system
(see Distribution – Japan above) and product expertise.

We have also experienced substantial success selling medical insurance in
Japan. While other companies have recognized the opportunities that we have seen in the medical insurance market and offered new products, we believe our products stand out for their value to consumers. Aflac Japan continued to be the number one
seller of stand-alone medical insurance in the life insurance industry in terms of policy sales in 2011.

In addition to third sector
products, Aflac Japan is showing steady progress in sales of life insurance products, such as WAYS which is described in the Products section of this report. The market for ordinary life products is highly competitive. Our current market share of
ordinary life sales is relatively small; however, we will continue to pursue the development and marketing of specialty products that meet specific needs within the general life insurance market.

Competition – U.S.

We compete against
several insurers on a national basis plus other insurers regionally. We believe our policies and premium rates, as well as the commissions paid to our sales associates and brokers, are competitive with those offered by other companies providing
similar types of insurance. However, we believe our U.S. business is distinct from our competitors because of our product focus, distribution system, and brand awareness. For many of the other companies that sell voluntary supplemental insurance, it
represents a secondary business. For us, it is our primary business. We also believe that our growing distribution system of independent sales associates and brokers expands our business opportunities, while our advertising campaigns have increased
our name awareness and understanding by consumers and businesses of the value our products provide.

Private insurers and voluntary and
cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, provide major medical insurance for hospitalization and medical expenses. Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis. The federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical
treatment through various programs. Such major medical insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical expenses incurred by an insured as a result of accident and disability, cancer or other major illnesses. Aflac’s policies are
designed to provide coverage that supplements major medical insurance and may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses. Thus, we do not compete directly with major medical insurers. However, the scope of major medical coverage offered by other
insurers does represent a potential limitation on the market for our products. Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities. Conversely, any reduction of coverage, or
increased deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect our business opportunities.

Investments and Investment Results

Net investment income was $3.3 billion in 2011, $3.0 billion in 2010 and $2.8 billion in 2009. In each of these three years, net investment income benefited from the strengthening of the yen/dollar exchange rate.
The growth rate however has been negatively impacted by the low level of investment yields for new money in both Japan and the United States. In particular, Japan’s life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields for a number
of years. For information on our investments and investment results, see the Insurance Operations and Analysis of Financial Condition sections of MD&A and Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – Japan

The
financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA). Aflac Japan files annual reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal
year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. GAAP. Under Japanese
regulatory accounting practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately; deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different basis; policy benefit and claim







Index to Financial Statements

reserving methods and assumptions are different; the carrying value of securities transferred to held-to-maturity is different; policyholder protection corporation obligations are not accrued;
premium income is recognized on a cash basis; and different consolidation criteria apply to variable interest entities. Reconciliations of the net assets of the Japan branch on a U.S. GAAP basis to net assets determined on a Japanese regulatory
accounting basis as of December 31 were as follows:



(In millions)20112010Aflac Japan net assets on GAAP basis$10,967$8,852Elimination of deferred policy acquisition cost asset(7,732)(6,964)Adjustment to income tax liabilities4,1863,602Adjustment to policy liabilities(5,840)(4,265)Adjustment of unrealized gains and other adjustments tocarrying value of debt securities2,3721,886Elimination of policyholder protection corporation liability71108Reduction in premiums receivable(98)(97)Difference in consolidation criteria for variable interest entities2141Other, net(1,211)(815)Aflac Japan net assets on Japanese regulatory accounting basis$2,736$2,348

The FSA maintains a solvency standard, which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of
insurance companies. The FSA will apply a revised method of calculating the solvency margin ratio for life insurance companies as of fiscal year-end 2011 (March 31, 2012) and has encouraged the disclosure of the ratio as reference information as of
fiscal year-end 2010 (March 31, 2011). The FSA has commented that the revision would generally reduce life insurance companies’ solvency margin ratios to approximately half the level of those reported under the current calculation method. As of
December 31, 2011, Aflac Japan’s solvency margin ratio was 985.8% using the current calculation method and, disclosed as reference information, was 547.3% under the new standards. As expected, based on the results of the calculation of the
solvency margin ratio under the new standards, Aflac Japan’s relative position within the industry has not materially changed.

A
portion of Aflac Japan’s annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis, may be repatriated each year to Aflac U.S. These repatriated profits represent a portion of Aflac Japan’s after-tax earnings reported to the
FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis. We may elect not to repatriate profits to Aflac U.S. or to repatriate a reduced amount to strengthen Aflac Japan’s solvency margin. In addition, the FSA may not allow profit repatriations to Aflac U.S.
if the transfers would cause Aflac Japan to lack sufficient financial strength for the protection of Japanese policyholders. In the near term, we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for profit repatriations, nor
do we expect these requirements to adversely affect the funds available for payments of allocated expenses to Aflac U.S. and management fees to the Parent Company.

The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information regarding the policyholder protection fund, see
the Policyholder Protection Corporation subsection of MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

As a branch of our principal insurance subsidiary, Aflac Japan is also subject to regulation and supervision in the United States (see Regulation – U.S.). For additional information regarding Aflac
Japan’s operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Regulation – U.S.

The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries, Aflac (a
Nebraska-domiciled insurance company), American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York, a New York-domiciled insurance company) and CAIC (a South Carolina-domiciled insurance company) are subject to state regulations in the United
States as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among







Index to Financial Statements

such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries, and material transactions between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are
subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance
departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system.

Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac is subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which it does business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory
agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things:



•granting and revoking licenses to transact business



•regulating trade and claims practices



•licensing of insurance agents and brokers



•approval of policy forms and premium rates



•standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements



•capital requirements



•limitations on dividends to shareholders



•the nature of and limitations on investments



•deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders



•filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities



•periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies

The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern Aflac’s activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic
insurer or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of
any person controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, the Parent Company) must generally file with the Nebraska Department of Insurance an application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and
published regulations and provide a copy to Aflac. In Nebraska, control is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance
company. The 10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York and South Carolina, the domiciliary jurisdictions of the Parent Company’s other insurance subsidiaries, Aflac New
York and CAIC.

Additionally, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) continually reviews regulatory matters and
recommends changes and revisions for adoption by state legislators and insurance departments.

The NAIC uses a risk-based capital
formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the
insurer’s operations. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory
compliance is determined by a ratio of a company’s regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain
levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. Aflac’s NAIC risk-based capital ratio remains high and reflects a very strong capital and
surplus position. As of December 31, 2011, based on year-end statutory accounting results, Aflac’s company action level RBC ratio was 493%.

New federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including health care reform legislation, financial services reform legislation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform
legislation and taxation, can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. Various forms of federal oversight and regulation of insurance have been passed by Congress and signed into law by the President. For example, the







Index to Financial Statements

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, federal health care reform legislation, gives the U.S. federal government direct
regulatory authority over the business of health insurance. The reform includes major changes to the U.S. health care insurance marketplace. Among other changes, the reform legislation includes an individual medical insurance coverage mandate,
provides for penalties on certain employers for failing to provide adequate coverage, creates health insurance exchanges, and addresses coverage and exclusions as well as medical loss ratios. The legislation also includes changes in government
reimbursements and tax credits for individuals and employers and alters federal and state regulation of health insurers. These changes will be phased in over the next several years and are directed toward major medical health insurance coverage,
which Aflac does not offer. Accordingly, our products are not subject to or covered under the major provisions of the new legislation as enacted.

In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly known as the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, created a Financial Stability and
Oversight Council. The Council may designate by a two-thirds vote whether certain insurance companies and insurance holding companies pose a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States, in which case such nonbank financial companies
would become subject to prudential regulation by the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve, including capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements and examinations. The Board may limit such company’s ability to enter
into merger transactions, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate one or more activities, or impose conditions on the manner in which it conducts activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance
Office under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The director of the Federal Insurance
Office will have the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards. The Dodd-Frank Act requires extensive rule-making and other future regulatory action, which in some
cases will take a period of years to implement.

For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, regulation, change of control
and dividend restrictions, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of MD&A and Notes 2 and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Other Operations

Our other operations include the Parent Company and a printing subsidiary.
For additional information on our other operations, see the Other Operations subsection of MD&A.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, Aflac Japan had 4,254 employees, Aflac U.S. had 4,030 employees, and our other operations, the Parent Company and
printing subsidiary, had 278 employees. We consider our employee relations to be excellent.







Index to Financial Statements

Executive Officers of the Registrant





NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE



Daniel P. AmosChairman, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Chief Executive Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; President, Aflac, until January 200760



Paul S. Amos IIPresident, Aflac, since January 2007; Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Operations, Aflac, since February 2006; Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations, Aflac, until January 200736



Yuji AraiSenior Vice President, Compliance Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2012; Senior Vice President, Principal Financial Officer, Aflac Japan, until January 201249



Koji AriyoshiExecutive Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan, since January 2012; First Senior Vice President, Director of Marketing and Sales, Aflac Japan, from January 2010
until January 2012; Senior Vice President, Deputy Director of Marketing and Sales, from October 2008 until January 2010; Executive Director, AXA Life Insurance Company Ltd., until October 200858



Susan R. BlanckExecutive Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, since January 2011; First Senior Vice President, Aflac Japan, since June 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Actuary, Aflac, until
January 201145



Kriss Cloninger IIIPresident, Aflac Incorporated; Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Treasurer, Aflac Incorporated; Executive Vice President, Aflac64



Martin A. Durant IIISenior Advisor, Corporate Finance, Aflac Incorporated, since November 2011; Executive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, from June 2008 until November
2011; Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Aflac Incorporated, until June 200863



Thomas R. GiddensSenior Vice President, Director of Sales, Aflac, since November 2010; Senior Vice President, Co-Director of U.S. Sales, Aflac, from May 2010 until November 2010; Southeast Territory
Director, Aflac, until May 201057



June HowardChief Accounting Officer, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac, since November 2010; Treasurer, Aflac, since February 2011; Senior Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac,
since March 2010; Vice President, Financial Services, Aflac, from June 2009 until March 2010; Head of IFRS and U.S. GAAP for ING’s U.S. operations until June 200945



Jun IsonakaFirst Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, since January 2012; Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, from January 2010 until
January 2012; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac Japan, from January 2009 until January 2010; Senior Vice President, Sales, Aflac Japan, from January 2007 until January 2009; Vice President, Contact Center, Aflac
Japan, until January 200754



Kenneth S. Janke Jr.Executive Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Aflac Incorporated, since October 2010; Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, until October



W. Jeremy JefferySenior Vice President, Fixed Income Investments, since November 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, from January 2007
until November 2011; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, until January 200761







Index to Financial Statements



NAMEPRINCIPAL OCCUPATION(1)AGE



Eric M. KirschFirst Senior Vice President, Global Chief Investment Officer, Aflac, since November 2011; Managing Director, Global Head of Insurance Asset Management, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, from
July 2007 until November 2011; Managing Director, Deutsche Asset Management, until July 200751



Charles D. Lake IIChairman, Aflac Japan, since July 2008; Vice Chairman, Aflac Japan, until July 200850



Joey M. LoudermilkExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Aflac Incorporated and Aflac; Director, Legal and Governmental Relations, Aflac58



Audrey B. TillmanExecutive Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, since January 2008; Senior Vice President, Corporate Services, Aflac Incorporated, until January 200847



Tohru TonoikePresident, Chief Operating Officer, Aflac Japan, since July 2007;Deputy President, Aflac Japan, from February 2007 until July 2007; President and Representative Director, The Dai-ichi Kangyo AssetManagement Co., Ltd., until February 200761



Teresa L. WhiteExecutive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, since March 2008; Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer, Aflac, from March 2007 until March 2008; Senior
Vice President, Sales Support and Administration, Aflac, until March 200745



Robin Y. WilkeySenior Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, since October 2010; Vice President, Investor Relations, Aflac Incorporated, until October 201053



Hiroshi YamauchiExecutive Vice President, Planning and Research, Human Resources and General Affairs, Investments, Financial Accounting, Actuarial and Investment
Risk Management, IT, and Compliance, Aflac Japan, since January 2012; First Senior Vice President, Planning, Government Affairs & Research, Customer Services Promotion, Legal, Risk Management, and Compliance Promotion, Aflac Japan, from January
2011 until January 2012; First Senior Vice President, Planning, Government Affairs and Research, Legal, Risk Management, and Compliance Promotion, Aflac Japan, from January 2010 until January 2011; First Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative
Officer, Aflac Japan, until January 201060



(1)Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.







Index to Financial Statements

