Item 1. BUSINESS

Overview

The mission we serve as Twitter, Inc. is to give everyone the power to create and share ideas and information instantly without barriers.  We offer products and services for users, advertisers, developers and platform and data partners.  Our goal is to reach the largest daily audience in the world through our information sharing and distribution platform products.  We believe our audience is not limited to our users on the Twitter platform, but rather extends to a larger global audience.

We intend to leverage our unique content to reach this larger audience by creating value for all potential users of our platform.  Our current strategy for 2015 consists of three primary objectives:

·Strengthen the Core.  Our goal is to grow our active users by improving the new user experience, increasing the breadth and depth of our content with deeper integration of rich media, and upgrading our direct messaging features to allow users to move fluidly between public and private conversation on Twitter.

·Reduce Barriers to Consumption.  We are focused on better organizing our content so that it is relevant for each and every type of user, whether logged-in, logged-out or on syndicated partner applications.

·Deliver New Applications and Services.It is our objective to create and encourage the development of mobile and web applications across the Twitter ecosystem, including through our Fabric platform.

Products and Services for Users

Twitter.Twitter is a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time. By developing a fundamentally new way for people to create, distribute and discover content, Twitter has democratized content creation and distribution, enabling any voice to echo around the world instantly and unfiltered. Limiting a Tweet to 140 characters, with a broader canvas offered by Twitter Cards, makes it easy for anyone to quickly create, distribute and discover content that is consistent across our platform and optimized for mobile devices. As a result, Tweets drive a high velocity of information exchange that makes Twitter uniquely “live.”

Any user on Twitter can create a Tweet and any user can follow other users. We do not impose restrictions on whom a user can follow, which greatly enhances the breadth and depth of available content and allows users to discover the content they care about most. Additionally, users can be followed by thousands or millions of other users without requiring a reciprocal relationship, which we refer to as an asymmetric follow model. This asymmetric follow model significantly enhances the ability of our users to reach a broad audience. The public nature of the Twitter platform allows us and others to extend the reach of Twitter content beyond our properties. Media outlets distribute Tweets beyond our properties to complement their content by making it more timely, relevant and comprehensive.

Our advertisers enhance the value we create for our users. Advertisers use our Promoted Products, the majority of which are pay-for-performance, to promote their brands, products and services, amplify their visibility and reach, and complement and extend the conversation around their advertising campaigns. We enable our advertisers to target an audience based on a variety of factors, including a user’s Interest Graph. The Interest Graph maps, among other things, interests based on users followed and actions taken on our platform, such as Tweets created and engagement with Tweets. We believe a user’s Interest Graph produces a clear and real-time signal of a user’s interests, greatly enhancing the relevance of the ads we can display for users and enhancing our targeting capabilities for advertisers. Our Promoted Products are incorporated into our platform as native advertising and are designed to be as compelling and useful to our users as organic content on our platform.

Our platform partners also add value to our user experience by contributing content to our platform, broadly distributing content from our platform across their properties and using Twitter content and tools to enhance their websites and applications. Many of the world’s most trusted media outlets, including the BBC, CNN and Times of India, regularly use Twitter as a platform for content distribution.  In 2015, we began to generate revenue directly from a few platform partners, and also benefit from network effects where more activity on Twitter results in the creation and distribution of more content, which attracts more users, platform partners and advertisers.






Vine and Video.Vine is a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute short looping videos of up to six seconds in length. Vine users create and distribute their videos to their followers on Vine, with the option of tweeting them to their Twitter followers and sharing them on other social networks. Users on Vine can follow other users, re-broadcast content to their followers by re-vining, comment on videos and embed videos on websites. We do not currently monetize videos on Vine. Recently, we began to offer users on Twitter the ability to capture, edit and share videos up to 30 seconds in length directly within the Twitter app.

Products and Services for Advertisers

Our Promoted Products enable our advertisers to promote their brands, products and services, amplify their visibility and reach, and extend the conversation around their advertising message. Currently, our Promoted Products (all of which are labeled “promoted” within Twitter) consist of:

·Promoted Tweets.Promoted Tweets appear within a user’s timeline or search results just like an ordinary Tweet regardless of device. Using our proprietary algorithm and understanding of each user’s Interest Graph, we can deliver Promoted Tweets that are intended to be relevant to a particular user.

·Promoted Accounts. Promoted Accounts appear in the same format and place as accounts suggested by our Who to Follow recommendation engine, or in some cases, in Tweets in a user’s timeline. Promoted Accounts provide a way for our advertisers to grow a community of users who are interested in their business, products or services.

·Promoted Trends.Promoted Trends appear at the top of the list of trending topics for an entire day in a particular country or on a global basis. When a user clicks on a Promoted Trend, search results for that trend are shown in a timeline and a Promoted Tweet created by our advertisers is displayed to the user at the top of those search results. We feature one Promoted Trend per day per geography.

Our technology platform and information database enable us to provide targeting capabilities based on audience attributes like geography, interests, keyword, television conversation and devices that make it possible for advertisers to promote their brands, products and services, amplify their visibility and reach, and complement and extend the conversation around their advertising campaigns.

Our platform also allows customers to advertise across the mobile ecosystem, both on and off Twitter properties, across the full user lifecycle — from acquiring new users through app installs, to engaging existing users who already have the advertisers’ apps on their device. MoPub, our mobile-focused advertising exchange, combines ad serving, ad network mediation and a real-time bidding exchange into one comprehensive monetization platform.  Advertisers can also set up campaigns directly on ads.twitter.com to run across the Twitter Publisher Network.

When our customers purchase advertising services they have the ability to monitor their advertising campaigns as follows:

·Campaign Management.Our campaign management capability tools allow advertisers to monitor and make changes to campaigns in real time as ads are delivered. This allows advertisers to actively manage their campaigns as they gain deeper insight into their target audience and allows them react to events and user reactions as they unfold.

·Real-Time Analytics.Our analytics tools give our advertisers insight into user response to their ads, which helps them to understand the success of campaigns as well as customer preferences in real-time.

·Advertiser API.Our APIs enable advertisers to integrate with Twitter and build websites and applications that integrate our campaign management and analytics tools.

Products for Platform Partners and Developers

We provide a set of tools, public APIs and embeddable widgets that developers can use to contribute their content to our platform, syndicate and distribute Twitter content across their properties and enhance their websites and applications with Twitter content. Websites integrating with Twitter add value to our user experience. Indeed many applications have been registered by developers to enable them to integrate with our platform, and leverage Twitter content to enhance and extend their applications in new and creative ways. The goal of our platform product development is to make it easy for developers to integrate seamlessly with Twitter.






Key elements of the Twitter platform products include the following, many of which increase the syndication of our content:

·Twitter Cards.Twitter Cards enable developers to attach content and functionality to Tweets, and have that content appear wherever a Tweet is displayed throughout web and mobile applications. Developers can link Twitter Cards directly to their own mobile application or website, in order to drive visits and application installs.

·Twitter Public API.The Twitter public API allows platform partners to integrate Twitter content and follower relationships into their applications. For example, a platform partner can connect to the Twitter public API in order to collect, filter and integrate real-time content from Twitter into a live television program.

·Twitter for Websites.Twitter for Websites is a set of tools that enable platform partners to integrate Twitter content and functionality into their websites. Sites can embed single Tweets or timelines of Tweets, or add Tweet buttons to their websites that make it easy for visitors to follow particular accounts or Tweet about the content they are viewing.

·Fabric.Our Fabric platform offers lightweight modular software development kits that help developers build more stable applications, gives them the ability to generate revenue through Twitter’s mobile ad exchange, MoPub, and allows them to tap into Twitter’s sign-in systems for simpler identity verification. Fabric also provides a simple way for developers to incorporate real-time Twitter content for greater syndication.

Products for Data Partners

We offer subscription access to our public data feed for partners who wish to access data beyond our public API, which offers a limited amount of our public data for free. Our “Gnip” branded products and services offer more sophisticated data sets and better data enrichments to allow developers and businesses to utilize our public content to derive business insights and build products using the unique content that is shared on Twitter.

Competition

Our business is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product innovation and continuously evolving user, advertiser, platform partner and developer preferences and expectations. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, particularly in attracting and retaining members of these constituencies and employees, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers.

We compete with the following companies:

·Companies that offer products that enable everyone to create and share ideas and other information. These offerings include, for example, Facebook and Google, as well as largely regional social media and messaging companies that have strong positions in particular countries.

·Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that create, syndicate and distribute content across internet properties.

·Traditional, online, and mobile businesses that enable marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns.

As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition.

We believe that we compete favorably on the factors described above. However, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. See the sections titled “Risk Factors—If we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed” and “Risk Factors—We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively.”






Technology, Research and Development

Twitter is composed of a set of core, scalable and distributed services that are built from proprietary and open source technologies. These systems are capable of delivering billions of short messages to hundreds of millions of people a day in an efficient and reliable way.

·Twitter’s Scale.Tweets are delivered to users via the twitter.com website, through over a dozen owned and operated Twitter applications, and through widgets that appear on third party websites. Each time a user creates a Tweet, it is delivered to each follower of such user that requests a timeline. If a follower then retweets it, the Tweet is delivered to each of their followers who request a timeline. In addition, we deliver to users any Tweets that may be generated through our trends, search or #Discover functions. This process requires our infrastructure to collect and efficiently deliver large volumes of information daily.

·Real-time, Service Oriented Architecture.Twitter’s architecture is optimized so users perceive instantaneous change. The time between a Tweet being created and having it available for users to see and interact with in the product is measured in tenths of a second. In general, the latency between two events occurring in our infrastructure is measured in millisecond increments.

·Foundational Infrastructure and Data.Our customized technology replicates and balances this data across multiple geographically distributed databases and allows us to store, access and modify it at scale.

·Relevancy and Content Analysis.We have built systems and algorithms to organize content to enable users to find and discover the most relevant content, people and topics on Twitter. Our key technologies include a distributed, fixed-latency, high performance search system that allows us to efficiently index, retrieve and score users and their content in real time. We have also built a trending platform to determine trending topics on Twitter.

·Advertising Technology.Our advertising platform allows advertisers to reach users based on many factors, including their Interest Graphs. We use sophisticated algorithms to determine the likelihood of user engagement with specific ads. We use these algorithms to match advertiser demand with Twitter users by placing Promoted Tweets and Promoted Accounts into a user’s Twitter experience in a way that optimizes for both user experience and the value we deliver to advertisers.

·Software Development Kits.Our Fabric platform provides developers with a range of mobile development tools, organized into three modular software development “kits.”  Our Crashlytics Kit gives developers a crash reporting solution, beta distribution, and mobile app analytics.  Our Twitter Kit gives developers the ability to allow users to sign in with Twitter credentials or a phone number, embed Twitter content into their app and leverage the Twitter API.  The MoPub Kit gives developers the ability to generate advertising revenue by connecting their apps to a mobile ad exchange and integrate advertisements into their apps.

Sales and Marketing

We have a global sales force and sales support staff that is focused on attracting and retaining advertisers. Our sales force and sales support staff assists advertisers throughout the advertising campaign cycle, from pre-purchase decision making to real-time optimizations as they utilize our campaign management tools, and to post-campaign analytics reports to assess the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns. Our advertisers also use our self-serve advertising platform to launch and manage their advertising campaigns.

Since our inception, our user base has grown primarily by word-of-mouth. Our marketing efforts to date have focused on amplifying and accelerating this word-of-mouth momentum. We have historically built our brand through these efforts and increased usage of Twitter worldwide with relatively minimal marketing costs.  However, we began to spend more on sales and marketing in 2014 than we had historically, and expect our sales and marketing expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2015.






Intellectual Property

We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the United States and other countries, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents to help protect our brand and our other intellectual property.

As of December 31, 2014, we had 969 issued patents in the United States and foreign countries relating to message distribution, graphical user interfaces, security and related technologies. Our issued United States patents are expected to expire between 2016 and 2032.

We may be unable to obtain patent or trademark protection for our technologies and brands, and our existing patents and trademarks, and any patents or trademarks that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. In addition, any patents and trademarks may be contested, circumvented or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing, diluting or otherwise violating them.

In May 2013, we implemented our Innovator’s Patent Agreement, or IPA, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. We implemented the IPA because we were concerned about the recent proliferation of offensive patent lawsuits, including lawsuits by “non-practicing entities.” We are also encouraging other companies to implement the IPA in an effort to reduce the number of patents with offensive rights which may be transferred to third parties, including non-practicing entities. We believe that a reduction in the number of patents with transferrable offensive rights may reduce the number of offensive lawsuits that may be filed, particularly by non-practicing entities.

The IPA limits our ability to prevent infringement of our patents.  See the section titled “Risk Factors—Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand” for a further discussion of the IPA.

Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. In addition, various “non-practicing entities” that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to aggressively assert their rights in order to extract value from technology companies. We are presently involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and from time to time we face, and we expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed or otherwise violated the patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more intellectual property-related claims and litigation matters. For additional information, see the sections titled “Risk Factors—We are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results” and “Legal Proceedings.”

Government Regulation

We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations may involve privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation or other subjects. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations often are uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate.

We are also subject to federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the protection of user data. Foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concerning data protection that could affect us. For example, regulation relating to the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive is currently being considered by European legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance.






In March 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, that, among other things, requires us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. The FTC investigation was the result of two separate incidents in which unauthorized intruders obtained administrative passwords of certain Twitter employees. In one of the incidents, the intruder accessed the employee’s administrative capabilities to fraudulently reset various user passwords and post unauthorized Tweets. The obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of March 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the U.S. government or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements, or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Twitter users may be restricted from accessing Twitter from certain countries, and other countries have intermittently restricted access to Twitter. For example, Twitter is not directly accessible in China and has been blocked in the past in Turkey. It is possible that other governments may seek to restrict access to or our block our website or mobile applications, censor content available through our products or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility or usability of Twitter for an extended period of time or indefinitely.  For instance, some countries have enacted laws that allow websites to be blocked for hosting certain types of content.

For additional information, see the section titled “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business.”

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had 3,638 full-time employees.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in April 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 1355 Market Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, California 94103, and our telephone number is (415) 222-9670. We completed our initial public offering in November 2013 and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TWTR.” Unless the context requires otherwise, the words “Twitter,” “we,” “Company,” “us” and “our” refer to Twitter, Inc. and our wholly owned subsidiaries.

Available Information

Our website is located at www.twitter.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.twitterinc.com/. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reportsfiled or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.






We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Twitter has used, and intends to continue to use, our investor relations website, as well as certain Twitter accounts (@dickc, @twitter and @twitterIR), as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate governance.” The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



