ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

The statements in this section
describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the
aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements.

Failure to execute our
opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results.

While opportunistic buying, operating
with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. Our merchants are in
the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. Our business model expects them to react to frequently
changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. If we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times,
in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected.

We base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or
slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance.

If we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain
an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. We may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some segments,
chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results.

Similarly, we must also properly execute our inventory management
strategy of distributing the right product to the right stores in the right quantities at the right time. To respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our
stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and appropriately change the allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. If we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our
results could be adversely affected.

Failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and
scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results.

Our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price
model within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. There are significant risks associated with our
ability to continue to expand successfully, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. If any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial
performance expectations, be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. For example, successful store growth requires us to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the
locations where we seek to open stores. The success of this process depends on many factors, including availability of appropriate sites; real estate, construction and development costs; costs and availability of capital; and zoning or other land
use regulations. If we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. Similarly, new stores may not achieve
the same sales or profit






levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets, or adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Further, our substantial size imposes demands on effectively managing our complex operations and maintaining appropriate internal resources and
third party providers to support our business effectively. These demands may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and various functions across our business, including administration, systems, merchandising, store
operations, distribution and compliance, and on appropriately staffing and training Associates in these areas as we grow. The large size and scale of our operations, our multiple banners and locations in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia and
the autonomy afforded to the banners in some aspects of the business increase the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies will not be implemented effectively or consistently throughout our Company and that information may not be
appropriately shared across our operations. These risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. If business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or
growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our
business goals and adversely impact our sales and results.

Failure to identify consumer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or
existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance.

As our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand,
we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. However, doing so on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the
U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia in which we do business is challenging. Trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. Although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet
consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers,
encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results.

Customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or
through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (through Internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media outlets), which may vary across demographics and may evolve
rapidly. Meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our
financial results.

If we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors are more effective with their programs
than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected.

Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be
influenced by our marketing efforts, the name recognition and reputation of our banners and the location of and service offered in our stores. Although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio,
print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Further, we may not
effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving Internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media. Our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which
could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.

We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able
to compete effectively.

The retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. We compete with local, regional,
national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through e-commerce, catalogues or other media or channels. Some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more
experience in selling certain product lines than we do. New competitors frequently enter the






market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies,
all of which affect the competitive landscape. We compete on the basis of value, meaning a combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality; merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; customer service; reputation and
store location. If we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Failure to employ quality
Associates in appropriate numbers, including key Associates and management, could adversely affect our performance.

Our performance
depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented Associates in key areas such as buying and management as well as quality store, systems, distribution center and other Associates in large numbers. A significant number of
our Associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Availability and skill of Associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our
labor needs effectively. In addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key Associates across the company, including within our buying organization. Similar to
other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry and for talent in various geographic markets. If we do not effectively
attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our growth could be limited and our performance could be adversely affected.

Labor costs, including pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability.

Compromises of our data security could materially harm our
reputation and business.

In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit certain information from
individuals, such as our customers and Associates, including, for example, customer payment card and check information. We rely in part on commercially available systems, software, hardware, services, tools and monitoring to provide security for
collection, storage, processing, and transmission of personal and/or confidential information. As with many other companies, particularly in the retail industry, we are subject to attempts to compromise our data security. Computer hackers may, for
example, attempt to penetrate our computer systems or those of the third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations and, if successful, misappropriate customer or Associate information or confidential business information
of our company. While we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer systems since the unauthorized intrusion(s) into our network discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen, there can be
no assurance that we will not suffer a future data security






compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit or otherwise interfere with our systems, or that any such data security
compromise or unauthorized access will be discovered in a timely way. In addition, an Associate, contractor or third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor their or our systems effectively, may fail
to maintain appropriate safeguards, may misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information or may purposefully or,
through error, inadvertently cause a breach involving, or otherwise disclose, such information. Advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, rapid changes in the sources, methods and targets of cyber-attacks and other developments,
including the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally, may increase the risk of such a breach.

Compromise of our data
security or that of third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods or error, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business
information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our customers’ willingness to shop in our stores or online, impact our ability to attract and retain customers,
violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material.

Failure to
operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability.

e-commerce

We modify, update, and replace our systems and
infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers and adding enhanced or new
functionality, such as for cloud computing technologies and for the continued operation and development of our e-commerce businesses; and adding or integrating with new systems when we acquire new businesses. We also modify and change our procedures
for, and add and change vendors and internal teams who assist us with designing, implementing and maintaining our systems. Although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems, teams and vendors and implementing procedures to enable us to
maintain the integrity of our systems when we implement, modify or replace them, there are inherent risks associated with implementing, modifying or replacing systems, with new or changed relationships and with changes from and integrations with
acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes in a timely manner, realizing the expected






benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems and diversion of internal teams’ attention as the changes are implemented. Further, potential
issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required in seeking to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term.
Overall, the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate, maintain and develop them effectively and a failure of those systems could disrupt our business, subject
us to liability or otherwise impact our financial results.

Economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our
financial performance.

Global financial markets can experience volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which could adversely
affect global economic conditions. Turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values
and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements and other related financial exposure with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. Economic conditions, both on a global level
and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, costs of oil, gas and other commodities, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing
market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or
threatened epidemics, and political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending that would, in turn, affect retail sales. These conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and,
although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance.

Adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or along our supply chain could adversely affect our operating results.

Both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, even if not extreme, may affect
customers’ buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. Weather can also affect the
ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our vendors, distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. As a result, adverse or unseasonable weather could adversely affect our sales,
increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results.

As our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a
severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results.

Our business is subject to seasonal influences. We generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which
includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events.

Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and
other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of
our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. Day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close
stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. As a result, our business could be adversely affected.






Damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating
results.

Quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results.

Failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws,
regulations and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.

We are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in various countries in which we operate, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances.
These legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and
manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. If we, or third parties that perform services on our






behalf, fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations
and our financial results and condition.

Complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations and our own internal policies may also
require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train Associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow
globally and enter new markets or countries, any of which could adversely impact our results.

We must also comply with new and changing
laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. These changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing
business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving:



—labor and employment practices and benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils;



—health and welfare and financial regulations;



—consumer protection and product safety;



—data protection and privacy;



—climate change, supply chain, energy and waste;



—Internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and



—protection of third party intellectual property rights.

Particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts before changes are certain.

Further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our
future or previously reported financial results.

Our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries.

We are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from other
countries and moving merchandise internationally.

Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a
lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern Asia. Where we are the






importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. We are subject to the various
risks of sourcing merchandise from other countries, including moving merchandise internationally, such as:



—potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply;



—changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, new potential tariffs
and border adjustment taxes or changes resulting from Brexit;



—transport capacity and costs;



—information technology challenges;



—problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain;



—strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery;



—consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise;



—product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country;



—compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical
business practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act;



—product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or
alleged to be harmful;



—intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues;



—concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced;



—concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains;



—currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and



—political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported.

These and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of
our inventory and our operating costs. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no
assurance that our Associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to
liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results.

Our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability
or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs.

Energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. An increase in the price of oil increases our
transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. Although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging
strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. Increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could
also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs. Similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen
significantly. Such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins.






Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings.

Sales made by our stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in
currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a
significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. Changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business
buying the merchandise. When exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as in recent years, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely
affected. In addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in China and accordingly, a revaluation of Chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative
to the U.S. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant.

Additionally, we routinely enter into
inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. In
accordance with GAAP, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. These adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in
currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings.

Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk
management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and
results of operations from time to time. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform.

Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which
could adversely affect our stock price.

Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and
they may do so in the future. If we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price
may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. Results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. If
we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we
contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected.

If we engage in mergers or acquisitions or
investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks.

We may acquire new businesses (as we did with Trade Secret in fiscal 2016 and STP in fiscal 2013), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally (as with our new
home store concept) and divest, close or consolidate businesses. Failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and
financial condition. Acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the
risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. These activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and
may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. In addition, we have recorded intangible assets and goodwill and the value of the tradenames in connection with our acquisitions of Trade Secret and STP and






may similarly do so in the future in connection with other acquisitions. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the
goodwill associated with an acquisition, which could adversely impact our results of operations and balance sheet. Divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure
on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer.

Our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters.

Tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate and future tax
liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in
countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to
additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods.
Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations.

In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may
challenge positions we take. We are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to
determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. However, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or
settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such
proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to
tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses.






Our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks.

We lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial term of 10 years, with options to renew the term, in the
U.S. and Canada or an initial term of 10 to 15 years in Europe. In addition, we either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and
owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we
would like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease
term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if
the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). In addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially
acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms.

We depend upon
strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment.

Our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our
stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is
cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. We borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms
when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance.

