ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors

The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements.

Failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results.

Opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy but subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature, and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. Our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our focus on buying opportunistically places considerable discretion with them. Our business model expects our merchants to effectively react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. If we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times, in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected.

We base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance.

If we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain a sufficient overall pricing differential to full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. We may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some reporting segments, chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results.

To respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and be flexible in our allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. If we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected.

Failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results.

Our growth strategy includes successfully expanding within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. Managing growth effectively can be difficult. If any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial performance expectations and/or may be required to increase investments, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. Various circumstances could adversely affect our expansion plans. For example, if we are not able to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in the locations where we seek to open stores, we may need to change our planned growth in those areas. Similarly, new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets; our financial performance in new markets may not be the same as in existing markets; and adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability in those markets.










Failure to identify consumer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance.

As our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand and expectations, we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory and shopping experiences that meet those trends and preferences. However, we may not do so effectively and on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in each of the many markets in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia in which we do business. Trends and preferences in markets may differ from what we anticipate. Although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends (for example, by expanding and contracting merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing tastes), we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers and encouraging frequent customer visits and could adversely affect our results.

Customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (for example, through various digital platforms), which expectations may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly.  Meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our financial results.

If we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors’ programs are more effective than ours, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected.

Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts. Although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio, print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving digital communication channels. Our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.

We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively.

The retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. We compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, including retailers that operate through stores, e-commerce, catalogues and/or other media or channels. Some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines or through certain channels than we do. New competitors frequently enter the market. Existing competitors enter or increase their presence in markets in which we operate and may expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies, all of which affect the competitive landscape. Consumer spending online has increased and may continue to increase, while our business is primarily in stores. We compete on the basis of various factors affecting value, meaning the combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality as well as merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; both in-store and online service and shopping experience; convenience and store location. If we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Failure to employ quality Associates in appropriate numbers and to retain key Associates and management could adversely affect our performance.

Our performance depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented Associates in key areas such as buying and management. We also need to hire capable, engaged Associates in large numbers for our stores and distribution centers and for other areas of our business, including information technology functions. We must constantly recruit new Associates to fill entry level and part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover and at times find seasonal talent in sufficient numbers. Availability and skill of Associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our labor needs effectively. In addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key Associates across the Company, including within our buying organization. Similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition for talent in the retail industry and in various geographic markets. If we do not effectively attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them in sufficient numbers and at appropriate levels of the organization, our growth could be limited and our performance could be adversely affected.










Labor costs, including wage, pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability.

We have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs and control labor costs is subject to various factors such as minimum wage laws and benefits requirements; market pressures, including prevailing wage rates and benefit levels and unemployment levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; actuarial assumptions and methods; the costs of providing and managing retirement, health and other employee benefits, including health and insurance costs; and a dynamic regulatory and policy environment, including with respect to health care, immigration, labor, employment, pension and other employee benefits, and taxes. Any of these factors could increase our labor costs.

Increased labor costs may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may negatively impact our earnings (as they did during the past several fiscal years).  Conversely, failing to offer competitive wages or benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain sufficient or quality Associates, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results.

Many Associates in our distribution centers are members of unions, and therefore we are subject to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential material expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from pension plan underfunding, benefit cuts, increased contribution requirements, changes in plan terms, withdrawal liability, increased premium costs, or insolvency of other participating employers or governmental insurance programs. Other Associates in Europe are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional requirements, actions or expense.

Compromises of our data security, disruptions in our information technology systems, or failure to satisfy the information technology needs of our business could result in material loss or liability, materially impact our operating results or materially harm our reputation.

Our business depends on our information technology systems, which collect and process information of customers, Associates and other persons, as well as information of our business and of our suppliers and service providers.  We rely heavily on information technology systems, including those of suppliers and service providers, to manage all key aspects of our business, including planning, purchasing, sales, supply chain management, inventory management, point-of-sale processing, e-commerce, human resources, financial management, communications, safeguarding information, and compliance with legal obligations. This reliance requires us to accurately anticipate our current and future information technology needs and successfully develop and implement appropriate systems that can provide the right support at the right time. Our ongoing operations and successful growth are dependent on the doing so, as well as the ongoing integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems, including related back-up systems.

We maintain policies, procedures, and controls designed to reduce the risk of data security compromises and information technology failures or disruptions.  While we have implemented measures designed to further strengthen these policies, procedures and controls since the unauthorized intrusions into our network discovered late in 2006, we may suffer a similar event in the future.  These measures also require costly and ongoing investment in technologies, hiring, training, and compliance.

There is a risk of material business disruption, liability and reputational damage associated with ongoing actions intended to update, enhance, modify or replace our systems and infrastructure, including from not accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the actions and diversion of internal teams’ attention as the changes are implemented.










Economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results.










Quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results.

Failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations and orders and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.

We are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations as well as government orders in various countries in which we operate. These legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. If we, or third parties that perform services on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition.

Complying with applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train Associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow globally and enter new markets or countries, any of which could adversely impact our results.

We must also comply with new and changing laws, rules and regulations, evolving interpretations of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. These changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving:

–labor and employment practices and benefits, including for labor unions and works councils;

–climate change, energy and waste;

–supply chain, trade restrictions and logistics, including resulting from changes to requirements or policies from the outcome of Brexit discussions;

–health and welfare regulations;

–consumer protection and product safety;

–financial regulations;

–data protection and privacy, such as to comply with, or fines and penalties related to, the General Data Protection Regulation in Europe;

–Internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and

–protection of intellectual property rights.



Particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts or otherwise expend resources before changes are certain.  For example, the ongoing uncertainty around Brexit, including relating to timing and the range of possible outcomes, has required us to consider and in some cases implement strategies for mitigating potential disruptions to our supply chain.

Further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our future or previously reported financial results.










Our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events, as well as adverse or unseasonable weather.

Natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather; climate conditions; unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics; or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations in a number of ways, including severely damaging or destroying one or more of our stores, distribution facilities or data centers, or could disrupt the operations of one or more of our vendors or other parts of our supply chain located in the affected areas. Day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or third party service providers or transport products to our stores or to our e-commerce customers could be adversely affected, transportation to and from our stores (by customers or Associates) could be limited, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time (as we did in areas of the U.S., including Puerto Rico, after severe hurricanes during fiscal 2018).

Adverse weather can similarly affect our operations in impacted areas. Adverse or unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures (even if not extreme) may also affect customers’ buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories we offer or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise, possibly impacting our sales, customer satisfaction with our stores and increasing markdowns. As a result, our business could be adversely affected.

Our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries.

We have a significant retail presence in Canada and in countries in Europe, and have expanded our retail operations into Australia. We also operate buying offices around the world. Our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other countries in the future. It can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from other countries in which we currently operate.



Just as with our current operations, there are risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries, such those related to compliance under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations and effectively communicating and implementing company policies and practices in new, possibly remote, jurisdictions. There are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. Any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity.

We are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from others, particularly where sourcing from other countries and moving merchandise internationally.

We are subject to various risks of sourcing merchandise from others, particularly other countries, including risks related to moving merchandise internationally.  Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in locations, particularly southeastern Asia, which are outside of the country where they will be sold. Where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements, including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. These risk include:

–potential disruptions in manufacturing and supply;

–changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, sanctions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, tariffs and border adjustment taxes; changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement or successor or other trade agreements; or changes to trade requirements resulting from Brexit;

–transport capacity and costs;

–information technology challenges;

–problems in third-party distribution and warehousing, logistics, transportation and other supply chain interruptions;

–strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery;

–consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise;

–product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country;










–compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act;

–product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful;

–intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues;

–concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced;

–concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains;

–currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and

–political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported.



These and other factors relating to sourcing, international trade and imported merchandise could affect the availability and the price of our inventory and our operating costs. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to production of merchandise, international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that our Associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results.

Our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability of, or increases in, the price of oil or other fuels, increased costs of other commodities, or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs.

Energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. An increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. Although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. Increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs, as could other shortages or disruptions impacting transportation, such as those relating to trucking and freight hauling. For example, in recent years, increased freight cost related to labor and equipment shortages, as well as other factors, had an impact on our margins. Similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically. Such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins.

Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings.

Sales made by our stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. Changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. When exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as in recent years, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. In addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in China and accordingly, a revaluation of Chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the U.S. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant.

Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. In accordance with GAAP, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. These adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings.

Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform.










Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price.

Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. If we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. Results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to plan sales and align expenses. If we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected.

If we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks.

Our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters.










Tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations, treaties and other guidance, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. The U.S. Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”) significantly revised the previous federal income tax code.  It is expected that additional interpretive guidance will be issued with respect to the 2017 Tax Act and such guidance may be different from our interpretation and thus adversely affect our results. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law, which could also impact our tax obligations. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations.

In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. We are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. However, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses.

As our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results.

Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period including those described in the factors in this section, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks.

We lease virtually all of our store locations and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). In addition, when the lease terms for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms or in a less favorable location.

Failure to protect our inventory or other assets from loss and theft may impact our financial results.

Risk of loss or theft of assets, including inventory shrinkage, is inherent in the retail business. Loss may be caused by error or misconduct of Associates, customers, vendors or third parties. Our inability to effectively combat and/or minimize the loss or theft of assets, or to effectively reduce the impact of those losses, could adversely affect our financial performance.










We depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment.

Our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. We borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance.



