ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

The statements in this section
describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we
think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements.

Failure to execute our
opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our business.

While opportunistic buying, operating
with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. Our merchants are in
the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. Our business model expects them to react to frequently
changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. If we do not obtain the right fresh, desirable merchandise at
the right times, quantities and prices, or the right mix of merchandise, it could adversely affect customer traffic as well as our sales and margins.

We base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or
slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance.

If we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain
an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. We may not achieve this at various times or in some segments, chains or geographies,
which could adversely affect our results.

We must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of delivering the right
product to the right stores at the right time. We need to appropriately allocate merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, appropriately
change the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. If we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be
adversely affected.

In addition to our own execution, we may need to react to factors affecting inventory flow that are outside our
control, discussed further below, such as adverse weather and natural disasters or changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability; labor issues, including port labor disputes, strikes or
threats of strikes; or increasing cost of compliance with regulations. If we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our inventory management may be affected, which could impact our performance and our relationship with our customers.

Failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely
affect our financial results.

Our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model within our current markets and
into new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. There are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand
successfully, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. If any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may be required to






increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. For example, successful store growth requires us to find
and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. Our ability to do so depends, among other things, on availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies; degree of
competition for sites; factors affecting costs such as real estate, construction and development costs and costs and availability of capital; and variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations. If we cannot lease appropriate sites
on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. There are risks in entering new markets, including those detailed further below. New stores
may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Further, our substantial size may add operational complexity and imposes demands on maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party
providers to support our business effectively. These demands may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and various functions across our business, including administration, merchandising, store operations, distribution and
compliance, and on appropriately staffing and training personnel in these areas as we grow. The large size and scale of our operations, our multiple chains in the U.S., Canada and Europe and our new chain in Australia and the autonomy afforded to
the chains in some aspects of the business increase the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies will not be implemented effectively throughout our Company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations.
These risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. If business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, we may operate with
decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our
sales and results.

Failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could
negatively impact our performance.

Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to identify customer
trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. However, doing so on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the U.S., Canada, Europe and
Australia in which we do business is challenging. Trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. Although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and
trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in successfully entering new markets, attracting new customers, retaining existing
customers, encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results.

Customers may also have expectations about how they shop in
stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through Internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may
evolve rapidly. Meeting demand effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our financial
results.

If we fail to successfully implement ourvarious marketing efforts or if our competitors are more effective with their
programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected.

Customer traffic and demand for our
merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts, the name recognition and reputation of our chains and the location of and service offered in our stores. Although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including
television, social media, database marketing, mobile marketing, print and direct marketing, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive
advantage. Internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media rapidly evolve. Our programs






may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.

We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively.

The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. We compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell
apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through e-commerce, catalogues or other media. Some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. New
competitors frequently enter the market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing methods, all of which increase
competition for customers. We compete on the basis of value, meaning a combination of brand, fashion, price, quality; merchandise selection and freshness; brand name recognition; customer service; reputation and store location. Our competitiveness
is highly dependent on our effective execution of our off-price model of offering our customers a fresh, rapidly changing and attractive mix of merchandise delivering value. If we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations
could be adversely affected.

Failure to attract, train and retain quality Associates in appropriate numbers, including key Associates and
management, could adversely affect our performance.

Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining
quality sales, systems, distribution center and other Associates in large numbers as well as experienced Associates in key areas such as buying and management. Many of our Associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high
rates of turnover. Availability and skill of Associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we need to manage our labor needs effectively. In addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price
model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key Associates across the company, including within our buying organization. Similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in
management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry generally and for talent in various geographic markets. If we do not continue to attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support
their development and retain them, our performance could be adversely affected or our growth could be limited.

Labor costs, including pension and
healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability.






Compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business.

Compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource
business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations,
damage our reputation and decrease our customers’ willingness to shop in our stores or online, impact our ability to attract and retain customers, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs
and liabilities which could be material.

Failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our
business or reduce our sales or profitability.






Economic conditions, on a global level
or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Global financial markets can experience extreme
volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affect global economic conditions. Turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our
costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. Economic conditions,
both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in
capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and
political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. Consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. These conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we
believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance.

Adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or along our supply chain could adversely affect our operating results.

Both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, affect customers’
buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. Weather can also affect the ability to
transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. As a result, adverse or unseasonable weather could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and
adversely affect our operating results.

Our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events.

Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and
other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of
our stores or distribution






facilities located in the affected areas. Day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or
we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. As a result, our business could be adversely affected.

As our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business
during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results.

Our business is subject
to seasonal influences. We generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during
this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations.

Damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail
banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results.

We believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners
is important to our continuing success. In the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns. These relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on
perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us, merchandise that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in
rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. Similarly, information about us, our retail banners and the merchandise we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, publicized through traditional or social media platforms and
similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is unverified or inaccurate.
The reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners in all, one or some of the markets in which we do business. Damage to the reputation of our company and our banners
could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and Associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business.

Quality, safety or other issues with merchandisewe sellcould damage our reputation, sales and financial results.






Our expanding international operations may expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries.

We are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise
from other countries.

Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many
countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern Asia. Where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such
products. We are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from other countries and purchasing product made in other countries, such as:



—potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply;



—changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise;



—transport capacity and costs;



—information technology challenges;



—problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain;



—strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery;



—consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise;



—product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country;



—compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices,
such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act;



—product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or
alleged to be harmful;



—exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues;



—concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced;



—concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains;






—currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and



—political or other disruptions in countries from or through which merchandise is imported.

These and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of
our inventory. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to operating in non-U.S. jurisdictions and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that
contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our
reputation, operations or operating results.

Our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other
fuels, raw materials and other commodities.

Energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in
significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. An increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers.
Although we typically implement a hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, that strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. Increases in oil and gasoline prices could
also adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products. Increased operating costs and decreased consumer spending and demand for our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, either individually or in the
aggregate. Increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs. Similarly,
other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. Such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through
potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins.

Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings.

Sales made by our stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and
changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue
to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. Changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the
business buying the merchandise. When exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as they did in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016, respectively, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices
accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. In addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in China and accordingly, a revaluation of Chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for
that currency, increasing its value relative to the U.S. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant.

Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise
margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. In accordance with GAAP, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each
accounting period. These adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings.

Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows
associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange
rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform.






Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations
of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price.

Our operating results have fluctuated from
quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. If we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may
decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. Results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. We maintain a forecasting process that
seeks to project sales and align expenses. If we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition,
if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected.

If we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be
subject to additional risks.

Failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws, regulations and applicable
accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.

We are subject
to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the United States and other countries, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. These legal, regulatory and administrative
requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection and others. If
we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition.

We must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and
regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. These changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including those involving:



—labor and employment benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils;



—health and welfare and financial regulations;



—consumer protection and product safety;



—data protection and privacy;



—climate change, supply chain, energy and waste;






—Internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and



—protection of third party intellectual property rights.

Further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition.

Our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters.

Tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could
be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher
statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax
liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. Significant
judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations.

In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may
challenge positions we take. We are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to
determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. However, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or
settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such
proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to
tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses.

Our real estate leases generally
obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks.

We lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an
initial term of 10 years, with options to renew the term, in the U.S. and Canada or an initial term of 10 to 15 years in Europe. In addition, we either own or lease for






long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our
results as, for example, was the case in the closures of various of our former operations. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a
particular lease if or when we would like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating
expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, we can remain liable on the lease
obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. In addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause
us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms.

We depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply
capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment.

Our business depends upon
our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our
interest and debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans
and financial performance including our earnings per share. We borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our
financial performance.

