10-K


c75405e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


________________________________________________________________________________

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d)

of the Securities Exchange Act of

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2002

Commission File Number: 1-12162

BorgWarner Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

13-3404508

(State of Incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

200 South Michigan Avenue

Chicago, Illinois 60604

(312) 322-8500

(Address and telephone number of principal
executive offices)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check-mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting stock of
the registrant held by stockholders (not including voting stock
held by directors and executive officers of the registrant) on
March 7, 2003 was approximately $1.24 billion. As of
March 7, 2003, the registrant had 26,707,063 shares of
Common Stock outstanding.

Indicate by check-mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the following documents are
incorporated herein by reference into the Part of the
Form 10-K indicated.



BORGWARNER INC.

FORM 10-K

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

INDEX


PART I

Item 1.

Business

BorgWarner Inc. (the “Company”), a
Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1987. The Company is a
leading, global Tier I supplier of highly engineered
systems and components, primarily for vehicle powertrain
applications. These products are manufactured and sold
worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers
(“OEMs”) of passenger cars, sport utility vehicles,
trucks, and commercial transportation products. The Company
operates manufacturing and technical facilities in
43 locations in 14 countries serving customers in
North America, South America, Europe and Asia, and is an
original equipment supplier to every major automotive OEM in the
world.

Financial Information About Segments

Incorporated herein by reference is Note Fourteen
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages 56 and 57 of the Company’s Annual Report for the
year ended December 31, 2002 (the “Company’s
Annual Report”) filed as an exhibit to this report.

Narrative Description of Operating
Segments

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company will
be reporting its results under its reorganized structure of two
reportable operating segments: Driveline and Engine. The
Driveline segment is primarily the combination of the
TorqTransfer Systems and Transmission Systems segments. The
Engine segment is primarily the combination of the Morse TEC,
Air/ Fluid Systems, and Cooling Systems segments. For purposes
of this report, the Company’s products fall into five
reportable operating segments: Morse TEC, Air/ Fluid Systems,
Cooling Systems, TorqTransfer Systems and Transmission Systems.
Net revenues by segment for the three years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, are as follows (in
millions of dollars):

The sales information presented above excludes
the sales by the Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures.
(See “Joint Ventures” section). Such sales totaled
approximately $318 million in 2002, $301 million in
2001 and $348 million in 2000. Divested operations and
businesses held for sale include the fuel systems business which
was sold in April 2001 and the HVAC business which was sold in
2000.

Morse TEC

Morse TEC manufactures chain and chain systems,
including HY-VO® front-wheel drive (“FWD”)
transmission chain and four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain,
MORSE GEMINI® Chain Systems, timing chain and timing chain
systems, crankshaft and camshaft sprockets, chain tensioners and
snubbers and turbochargers for passenger car and commercial
vehicle applications. These products are provided from
facilities in North America, South America, Europe and Asia.



HY-VO® chain is used in transmissions and
for 4WD transfer case applications. Transmission chain is used
to transfer power from the engine to the transmission. The
Company’s MORSE GEMINI® Chain System emits
significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than conventional
transmission chain systems. The chain in a transfer case
distributes power between the front and rear output shafts
which, in turn, drive the front and rear wheels. The Company
believes it is the world’s leading manufacturer of chain
for FWD transmissions and 4WD transfer cases.

The Company’s timing chain system is used on
Ford’s family of overhead cam engines, including the
Duratech and Triton and new in-line 4 cylinder engines, as well
as Chrysler’s 2.7 liter, 3.7 liter,
4.7 liter and 5.7 liter overhead cam engines. The
Company has been selected to provide timing systems for a number
of Japanese and European applications. The Company believes that
it is the world’s leading manufacturer of timing chain
systems.

Morse TEC also provides turbochargers for
passenger car, commercial vehicle and industrial applications
for diesel and gasoline engine manufacturers in Europe, North
America, South America and Asia. Morse TEC has greatly benefited
from the growth in turbocharger demand in Europe. This growth is
linked to the increasing demand for diesel engine passenger
cars. Benefits of turbochargers in both passenger car and
commercial vehicle applications include increased power for a
given engine size, improved fuel economy and significantly
reduced emissions. The Company believes it is a leading
manufacturer of turbochargers worldwide.

Air/ Fluid Systems

Air/ Fluid Systems designs and manufactures
sophisticated electro-mechanical, mechanical and electronic
components and systems used for automated transmissions, fluid
pumps, engine air intake modules, engine emission controls and
actuation systems. Key products for transmission controls
include single function solenoids, complex solenoids and
multi-function modules. The Company also manufactures a wide
variety of fluid pumps, including engine hydraulic pumps for
variable cam timing and engine lubrication. Key products for
engine air intake management include throttle bodies, intake
manifolds, throttle position sensors and complete engine
induction systems. The Company also designs and manufactures
products to control emissions and improve gas mileage such as
electric air pumps, air control valves and exhaust gas
recirculation valves. These products are provided from
facilities in the United States and France.

Cooling Systems

Cooling Systems is a global provider of engine
cooling solutions. The group manufactures and markets air
sensing fan drives that can be mechanically controlled and
electronically controlled fan drives that sense and respond to
multiple cooling requirements simultaneously. Cooling Systems
also manufactures and markets polymer fans for engine cooling
systems. Product features provide improved vehicle fuel economy
and reduced engine emissions while minimizing parasitic
horsepower loss. These advanced cooling systems products are
manufactured by facilities in the U.S., Germany, U.K., Brazil,
Korea, and China. The Company is a leading global provider of
such products, but competes with other large independent
producers. This business serves the global light, medium, and
heavy vehicle markets, as well as selected off-highway
applications.

TorqTransfer Systems

TorqTransfer Systems’ products include 4WD
and all-wheel drive transfer cases and torque management systems
to transfer torque within the drivetrain for rear wheel drive
and FWD based vehicles. The main focus is on electronically
controlled torque management devices and systems. TorqTransfer
Systems’ products are manufactured in North America, Asia
and Europe.

Transfer cases are installed primarily on light
trucks and sport-utility vehicles (“SUVs”). A transfer
case attaches to the transmission and distributes torque to the
front and rear axles for 4WD, improving vehicle control during
off-road use and in a variety of road conditions. The Company has



designed and developed an exclusive 4WD
TORQUE-ON-DEMAND® (“TOD”) transfer case system,
which allows vehicles to automatically shift from two-wheel
drive to 4WD when electronic sensors indicate it is necessary.
The TOD® transfer case is available on the Ford Explorer,
the best selling sport-utility vehicle in the United States in
2002, 2001 and 2000, and the Ford Expedition, Lincoln Navigator,
Isuzu Trooper and SsangYong Musso. In 2001, this technology was
also adopted by Hyundai for its Terracan SUV, and was launched
on the Kia Sorento in 2002.

Sales of 4WD transfer cases represented
approximately 22%, 20% and 19% of the Company’s total
revenues for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company
believes it is the world’s leading independent manufacturer
of 4WD transfer cases, producing over one million transfer cases
in 2002. The Company’s largest customer of 4WD transfer
cases is Ford Motor Company. The Company supplies the majority
of the 4WD transfer cases for Ford, including those installed in
the Ford Explorer, the Ford Expedition, the Ford F-150 and
Ranger pick-up trucks, the Mercury Mountaineer and the Lincoln
Navigator. The Company also began supplying transfer cases to
several new General Motors applications in 2002 including the
Hummer H2, the Cadillac Escalade, the Chevrolet Tahoe and
Suburban, along with the GMC Yukon and Yukon XL.

The Company’s newest four-wheel drive
product is the INTERACTIVE TORQUE MANAGEMENT

TM

(“ITM”) system. This product was introduced on the
Acura MDX in 2000 and was launched on the new Honda Pilot in
2002. ITM

TM

uses electronically controlled clutches
to distribute power to the individual rear wheels when traction
is required. The Company is actively involved in developing this
technology for new applications in both front wheel drive based
cross-over vehicles and passenger cars. A variant of this
product, ITM 1

TM

, which features a single clutch pack
in front of the rear axle differential, was launched on the
Hyundai Santa Fe in 2002.

Transmission Systems

The Company engineers and manufactures components
for automatic transmissions and the systems that combine such
components in North America, Asia and Europe. Principal product
lines include friction plates, one-way clutches, transmission
bands and torque converter lock-up clutches for automatic
transmissions. The Company is a supplier to virtually every
major automatic transmission manufacturer in the world. The
Company’s 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner
Kabushiki Kaisha (“NSK-Warner”), is a leading producer
of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan.

Joint Ventures

As of December 31, 2002, the Company had
seven joint ventures in which it has a less-than-100% ownership
interest. Results from five of these ventures, in which the
Company is the majority owner, are consolidated as part of the
Company’s results. The Company’s ownership interest in
NSK-Warner and Hitachi Warner is 50% each. Such interests are
reported using the equity method of accounting.



Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures
is shared with the Company’s respective joint venture
partners. Certain information concerning the Company’s
joint ventures is set forth below:

(a)

BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has
    a 40% interest in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea, Inc.
    giving the Company an effective ownership interest of 80%.

See Note Fourteen of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 56 and 57 of the
Company’s Annual Report for geographic information.

Customers

Approximately 79% of the Company’s total
sales in 2002 were to automotive OEMs, with the remaining 21% of
the Company’s sales to a diversified group of industrial,
construction and agricultural vehicle manufacturers, auto part
manufacturers and to distributors of automotive aftermarket and
replacement parts.

The Company’s worldwide sales in 2002 to
Ford, DaimlerChrysler and General Motors Corporation constituted
approximately 26%, 20% and 12%, respectively, of its 2002
consolidated sales. Approximately 32% of consolidated sales for
2002 were outside the United States, including exports. However,
a substantial portion of such sales was to foreign OEMs of
vehicles that are, in turn, exported to the United States. See
Note Fourteen of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
on pages 56 and 57 of the Company’s Annual Report.

The Company’s automotive products are
generally sold directly to OEMs substantially pursuant to either
negotiated long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions
as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to
periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of
the OEMs. The Company ships its products directly from its
plants to the OEMs.

Sales and Marketing

Each of the Company’s operating segments has
its own sales function headed by a vice president of sales.
Account executives for each group are assigned to serve specific
OEM customers for one or more of a business group’s
products. Such account executives spend the majority of their
time in direct contact with OEM purchasing and engineering
employees and are responsible for servicing existing



business and for identifying and obtaining new
business. Because of their close relationship with the OEMs,
account executives are able to identify and meet customers’
needs based upon their knowledge of the Company’s products
and design and manufacturing capabilities. Upon securing a new
order, account executives participate in product launch team
activities as a key interface to the customers.

Research and Development

Each of the Company’s operating segments has
its own research and development (“R&D”)
organization. Five hundred and thirty-four employees, including
engineers, mechanics and technicians, are engaged in R&D
activities at Company facilities worldwide. The Company also
operates testing facilities such as prototype, measurement and
calibration, life testing and dynamometer laboratories.

By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating
their future product needs, the Company’s R&D personnel
conceive, design, develop and manufacture new proprietary
automotive components and systems. R&D personnel also work
to improve current products and production processes. The
Company believes its commitment to R&D will allow it to
obtain new orders from its OEM customers.

Consistent with its strategy of developing
technologically innovative products, the Company spent
approximately $109.1 million, $104.5 million and
$112.0 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, on
R&D activities. Not included in the reported R&D
activities were customer-sponsored R&D activities that were
approximately $14.2 million, $20.0 million and
$12.5 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Patents and Licenses

The Company has approximately 3,300 active
domestic and foreign patents and patent applications pending or
under preparation, and receives royalties from licensing patent
rights to others. While it considers its patents on the whole to
be important, the Company does not consider any single patent,
group of related patents or any single license essential to its
operations in the aggregate or to the operations of any of the
Company’s business groups individually. The expiration of
the patents individually and in the aggregate is not expected to
have a material effect on the Company’s financial position
or future operating results. The Company owns numerous
trademarks, some of which are valuable but none of which are
essential to its business in the aggregate.

The Company owns the “BorgWarner” and
“Borg-Warner Automotive” trade names and housemarks,
and variations thereof, which are material to the Company’s
business.

Competition

Each of the Company’s operating segments
competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and
distributors which produce and sell similar products. Price,
quality and technological innovation are the primary elements of
competition. Competitors include vertically integrated units of
the Company’s major OEM customers, as well as a large
number of independent domestic and international suppliers, some
of which were formerly part of the Company’s OEM customers.
Many of these companies are larger and have greater resources
than the Company.

A number of the Company’s major OEM
customers manufacture, for their own use and for others,
products which compete with the Company’s products.
Although these OEM customers have indicated that they will
continue to rely on outside suppliers, the OEMs could elect to
manufacture products to meet their own requirements or to
compete with the Company. There can be no assurance that the
Company’s business will not be adversely affected by
increased competition in the markets in which it operates.

For many of its products, the Company’s
competitors include suppliers in other parts of the world that
enjoy economic advantages such as lower labor costs, lower
health care costs and, in some cases, export subsidies and/or
raw materials subsidies.



Employees

As of December 31, 2002, the Company and its
consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 14,000 salaried and
hourly employees (as compared with approximately 13,000
employees at December 31, 2001), of which approximately
8,600 were U.S. employees. Approximately 28% of the
Company’s domestic hourly workers are unionized. The hourly
workers at the Company’s European facilities are also
unionized. The Company believes its present relations with
employees to be satisfactory.

Raw Materials

Each of the Company’s operating segments
believes that its supplies of raw materials for manufacturing
requirements in 2003 are adequate and are available from
multiple sources. It is common, however, for customers to
require their prior approval before certain raw materials or
components can be used, thereby reducing sources of supply that
would otherwise be available. Manufacturing operations for each
of the Company’s operating segments are dependent upon
natural gas, fuel oil, and electricity.

Environmental Regulation and
Proceedings

The Company’s operations are subject to
federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations
governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to
waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. The Company
believes that it has operated its business and facilities in
compliance in all material respects with applicable
environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, many
of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions
for violations. However, the operation of automotive parts
manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas even for a
company complying with all laws, and there can be no assurance
that the Company will not incur material costs or liabilities.
In addition, through various acquisitions over the years, the
Company has acquired a number of manufacturing facilities and
there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur
material costs and liabilities relating to activities which
predate the Company’s ownership. In addition, potentially
significant expenditures could be required in order to comply
with evolving environmental and health and safety laws,
regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in
the future.

The Company believes that the overall impact of
compliance with regulations and legislation protecting the
environment will not have a material effect on its financial
position or future operating results, although no assurance can
be given in this regard. Capital expenditures and expenses in
2002 attributable to compliance with such legislation were not
material.

The Company and certain of its current and former
direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and
divisions have been identified by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental
agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties
(“PRPs”) at various hazardous waste disposal sites
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws
and, as such, may presently be liable for the cost of cleanup
and other remedial activities at 44 such sites. Responsibility
for cleanup and other remedial activities at a Superfund site is
typically shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula.

Based on information available to the Company
which, in most cases, includes: an estimate of allocation of
liability among PRPs; the probability that other PRPs, many of
whom are large, solvent public companies, will fully pay the
costs apportioned to them; currently available information from
PRPs and/or federal or state environmental agencies concerning
the scope of contamination and estimated remediation costs;
remediation alternatives; estimated legal fees; and other
factors, the Company has established a reserve for indicated
environmental liabilities in the aggregate amount of
approximately $20.3 million at December 31, 2002. The
Company expects this amount to be expended over the next three
to five years.



The Company believes that none of these matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on its financial position or future operating results,
generally either because estimates of the maximum potential
liability at a site are not large or because liability will be
shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with
respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter.

In connection with the sale of Kuhlman Electric
Corporation, the Company agreed to indemnify the buyer and
Kuhlman Electric for certain environmental liabilities relating
to the past operations of Kuhlman Electric. During 2000, Kuhlman
Electric notified the Company that it discovered potential
environmental contamination at its Crystal Springs, Mississippi
plant while undertaking an expansion of the plant.

The Company has been working with the Mississippi
Department of Environmental Quality and Kuhlman Electric to
investigate the extent of the contamination. The investigation
has revealed the presence of polychlorinated biphenyls
(“PCBs”) in portions of the soil at the plant and
neighboring areas. Kuhlman Electric and others, including the
Company, were sued in several related lawsuits, which claim
personal and property damage. The Company has moved to be
dismissed from some of these lawsuits.

The Company’s lawsuit against Kuhlman
Electric seeking declaration of the scope of the Company’s
contractual indemnity has been amicably resolved and dismissed.
The Company believes that the reserve for environmental
liabilities is sufficient to cover any liability associated with
this matter. However, due to the nature of environmental
liability matters, there can be no assurance that the actual
amount of environmental liabilities will not exceed the amount
reserved.

Available Information

Through its website (www.bwauto.com), the Company
makes available, free of charge, the Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as
soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below are the names, ages, positions
and certain other information concerning the executive officers
of the Company as of March 7, 2003.



Mr. Manganello has been Chief Executive
Officer since February 2003 and President of the Company
since February 2002. He was also President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company from February 2002 until
February 2003. He was Executive Vice President from
June 2001 until February, 2002. He was Vice President of
the Company from February 1999 to June 2001 and
President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems
Inc. from February 1999 until February 2001. He was
Vice President, Operations of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems
Inc., Muncie Plant from December 1995 until
January 1999.

Mr. Strickler has been Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since
March 2001. He was Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Lake West Group, a retail consulting firm,
from December 1999 to March 2001. He was Corporate
Vice President of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and Vice
President — Finance of the North America Tire Division
from 1996 to September 1999.

Mr. Welding has been Group President of the
Driveline Group since December 2002, Executive Vice
President of the Company since November 1999, and President
of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc. since May 1996. He
was Vice President of the Company from May 1996 until
October 1999.

Mr. Cline has been Vice President and
Controller of the Company since May 1993.

Ms. Dickens has been Vice President, Human
Resources of the Company since February 2002. She was Vice
President, Human Resources, BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc.
from June 1999 until February 2002. She was Manager,
Human Resources, of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc.’s
Bellwood Plant from June 1994 until June 1999.

Mr. Hensel has been Vice President of the
Company since July 2002. He was Vice President —
Finance of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. from July 1999 to
June 2002. He was the Finance Director of 3K Warner Turbo
Systems from September 1998 to June 1999. He was Plant
Controller of BorgWarner Transmission Systems Inc.’s
Bellwood Plant from October 1996 to August 1998.

Ms. Horiszny has been Vice President,
Secretary and General Counsel of the Company since May 1993.

Mr. Kalina has been Vice President, Chief
Information Officer of the Company since January 1999. He was an
Executive IT Consultant for IBM from August 1997 until January
1999 and was Chief Information Officer for Walbro Corporation
from September 1995 until December 1996.

Mr. McGill has been President and General
Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc. since December
2002 and Vice President of the Company since October 1999. He
was President and General Manager of BorgWarner Cooling Systems
Inc. from October 1999 until December 2002. He was General
Manager of Eaton’s Fluid Power Division from January 1998
to October 1999.

Mr. Obermayer has been Vice President and
Treasurer of the Company since December 1999. He was Acting
Treasurer from June 1999 until December 1999 and Vice President,
Finance & Business Development — BorgWarner
Transmission Systems Inc. from April 1999 until December 1999.
He was Vice President and Controller of BorgWarner Transmission
Systems Inc. from October 1996 until April 1999 and was
Director, Financial Planning & Investments of the
Company from January 1994 until September 1996.

Mr. Weber has been Vice President of the
Company since July 2002 and has been the President and General
Manager of BorgWarner Emissions/ Thermal Systems since December
2002. He was President and General Manager of BorgWarner Air/
Fluid Systems Inc. from July 2002 until December 2002. He was
Vice President, Passenger Car Operations, of BorgWarner Turbo
Systems Inc. from January 1999 to June 2002. He was Plant
Manager of the BorgWarner Turbo Systems Inc., Kirchheimbolanden,
Germany Plant, from 1994 to December 1998.



Mr. Wilson has been Vice President of the
Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo
Systems Inc. since January 2000. He was a Director for Allied
Signal Aerospace (n/k/a Honeywell) for various product lines
from October 1997 to December 1999. From January 1996 until
September 1997, he was Product Director — Commercial
Diesel Turbochargers Worldwide for Allied Signal Aerospace.

Mr. Wood has been Vice President of the
Company and President of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. since January
2001. He was Vice President of Business Development of
BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc. from September 1999 to
January 2001. From January 1999 until September 1999, he was
Vice President — Operations, Transmission Components
of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. and from January 1996 until
December 1998, he was Vice President — Operations,
Engine Timing Components of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc.

Item 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2002, the Company had 43
manufacturing and technical facilities strategically located
throughout the United States and worldwide. In addition to its
domestic manufacturing facilities, the Company has four
facilities in each of Germany and India, three facilities in the
United Kingdom, two facilities in each of Brazil, China, and
Korea and one facility in each of Canada, France, Hungary,
Italy, Japan, Mexico, and Taiwan. The Company also has several
sales offices, warehouses and technical centers. The
Company’s executive offices, which are leased, are located
in Chicago, Illinois. In general, the Company believes that its
properties are in good condition and are adequate to meet its
current and reasonably anticipated needs.



The following is additional information
concerning the headquarters and the major manufacturing plants
operated by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise noted, these plants are owned by the Company.

(1)

The figure shown in each case is a weighted
    average of the percentage utilization of each major plant within
    the category, with an individual plant weighted in proportion to
    the number of employees employed when such plant runs at 100%
    capacity. With the exception of the Company’s Bellwood,
    Illinois plant, capacity utilization at the 100% level is
    defined as operating five days per week, with two eight-hour
    shifts per day and normal vacation hours. Capacity utilization
    at the 100% level at the Company’s Bellwood, Illinois plant
    is defined as operating five days per week, with three
    eight-hour shifts per day and normal vacation hours.

(2)

The table excludes joint ventures owned 50% or
    less.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Patent infringement actions were filed against
the Company’s turbocharger unit in Europe in late 2001 and
in 2002 by Honeywell International. The Dusseldorf District
Court in Germany entered a preliminary injunction against the
Company on July 9, 2002 limiting the Company’s ability
to manufacture and sell a certain variable turbine geometry
(“VTG”) turbocharger in Germany until a patent
hearing, then scheduled for December 2002.

In order to continue uninterrupted service to its
customer, the Company paid Honeywell $25 million in
July 2002 so that it could continue to make and deliver
disputed car turbochargers through June of 2003. The agreement
with Honeywell partially settles litigation, suspends the
July 2002 preliminary injunction and provides for a license
to deliver until June 2003. As part of the agreement,



Honeywell agreed not to seek damages for
deliveries made before June 30, 2003. The Company appealed
the granting of the July preliminary injunction, but Honeywell
withdrew the preliminary injunction before the Company’s
appeal could be heard. In January 2003, the Dusseldorf District
Court decided that the Company’s current design of VTG
turbocharger infringes the patent asserted by Honeywell. The
Company continues to believe that its current production designs
do not violate the Honeywell patent and are not covered by their
lawsuit and plans to challenge the District Court’s
decision. The Company has informed its customers of it inability
to deliver the current design VTG turbocharger after
June 30, 2003. The Company continues to develop a new
generation VTG turbocharger to replace the current model and
expects to begin delivery of the new generation VTG turbocharger
by July 1, 2003 if approved by the customers.

There have been no significant developments in
the New Venture Gear legal proceedings first disclosed in the
Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2001. In addition, the Company is presently, and
is from time to time, subject to other claims and suits arising
in the ordinary course of its business. In certain such actions,
plaintiffs request punitive or other damages that may not be
covered by insurance. The Company believes that it has
established adequate provisions for litigation liabilities in
its financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These provisions include both legal fees and possible outcomes
of legal proceedings.

It is the opinion of the Company that the various
asserted claims and litigation in which the Company is currently
involved will not materially affect its financial position or
future operating results, although no assurance can be given
with respect to the ultimate outcome for any such claim or
litigation.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

There were no matters submitted to the security
holders of the Company during the fourth quarter of 2002.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s Common Stock is listed for
trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol BWA. As
of March 7, 2003, there were approximately 3,000 holders of
record of Common Stock.

The Company has paid cash dividends of
$0.15 per share on its Common Stock during each quarter for
the last two fiscal years. In December 2002, the Company
announced its intention to increase the quarterly cash dividend
to $0.18 per share. While the Company currently expects
that comparable quarterly cash dividends will continue to be
paid in the future, the dividend policy is subject to review and
change at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



High and low sales prices (as reported on the New
York Stock Exchange composite tape) for the Common Stock for
each quarter in 2001 and 2002 were:

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The Selected Financial Data for the five years
ended December 31, 2002 with respect to the following line
items set forth on page 59 of the Company’s Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of
this report: net sales; net earnings; net earnings per share;
total assets; total debt; and cash dividend declared per share.
See the material incorporated herein by reference in response to
Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the factors that
materially affect the comparability of the information contained
in such data.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth on
pages 29 through 38 in the Company’s Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report.

Item 7A.

Market Risk Disclosure

Information with respect to interest rate risk
and foreign currency exchange risk is contained on page 38
of the Company’s Annual Report and is incorporated herein
by reference. Information with respect to the levels of
indebtedness subject to interest rate fluctuation is contained
in Note Six of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 49 of the Company’s Annual Report and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to
the Company’s level of business outside the United States
which is subject to foreign currency exchange rate market risk
is contained in Note Fourteen of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 56 under the caption
“Geographic Information” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements (including
the notes thereto, except as noted below) of the Company and the
Independent Auditors’ Report as set forth on pages 39
through 59 in the Company’s Annual Report are incorporated
herein by reference and made a part of this report.
Supplementary financial information regarding quarterly results
of operations (unaudited) for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 is set forth on page 58 of
the Company’s Annual Report. For a list of financial
statements filed as part of this report, see Item 15,
“Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
Form 8-K” beginning on page 16.



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
    on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

Information with respect to directors and
nominees for election as directors of the Company under the
caption “Election of Directors” on pages 1
through 3 of the Company’s Proxy Statement and information
under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” on page 5 of the Company’s
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference and made a
part of this report. Information with respect to executive
officers of the Company is set forth in Part I of this
report.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information with respect to compensation of
executive officers and directors of the Company under the
captions “Compensation of Directors” on page 4 of
the Company’s Proxy Statement and “Executive
Compensation,” “Stock Options,” “Long-Term
Incentive Plans,” and “Employment Agreements” on
pages 6 through 9 of the Company’s Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.

As of December 31, 2002, the number of stock
options outstanding under our equity compensation plans, the
weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, and the
number of securities remaining available for issuance were as
follows:

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Item 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions

Information with respect to certain relationships
and related transactions under the caption “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions” on pages 15
through 16 of the Company’s Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference and made a part of this report.



PART IV

Item 14.

Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of disclosure
controls pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 within the
90-day period prior to the filing of this report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures
are effective in ensuring that all material information required
to be filed in this report has been made known to them in a
timely fashion. There have been no significant changes in
internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect internal controls, subsequent to the date the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer completed
their evaluation.

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
    Reports On Form 8-K

(a) 1. The following consolidated financial
    statements of the Company on pages 39 through 59 of the
    Company’s Annual Report are incorporated herein by
    reference:

2. Certain schedules for which provisions
    are made in the applicable accounting regulations of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
    related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have
    been omitted.

3. The exhibits filed in response to
    Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed in the
    Exhibit Index on page A-1.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

None.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

BORGWARNER INC.

By:

/s/ TIMOTHY M. MANGANELLO

Timothy M. Manganello

President and Chief Executive
    Officer

Date: March 21, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on this 21st day of March, 2003.





CERTIFICATION

I, Timothy M. Manganello, President and Chief
Executive Officer of BorgWarner Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of BorgWarner Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operation and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant
and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) Presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date.

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies in the design or
    operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the
    registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether
there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

/s/ TIMOTHY M. MANGANELLO

Timothy M. Manganello

President and Chief Executive
    Officer

Date: March 21, 2003



CERTIFICATION

I, George E. Strickler, Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of BorgWarner Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of BorgWarner Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operation and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant
and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) Presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date.

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies in the design or
    operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the
    registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether
there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

/s/ GEORGE E. STRICKLER

George E. Strickler

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 21, 2003



EXHIBIT INDEX

A-1


A-2


*

Incorporated by reference.

†

Indicates a management contract or compensatory
    plan or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to
    Item 14(c).

A-3