
10-K
FORM 10-K


                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]          ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999
                                      OR

[  ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                For the transition period from_____ to_____
                      Commission file number 1-9318

                          FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                                           13-2670991
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

777 Mariners Island Blvd.,  San Mateo, CA 94404 (Address of principal  executive
offices) (Zip Code)  Registrant's  telephone  number,  including Area Code (650)
312-2000 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                   Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, par value               New York Stock Exchange,
$.10 per share                        Pacific Exchange, Inc. and
                                      London Stock Exchange

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                   Common Stock, par value $.10 per share
                           (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES X NO ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based upon the  closing  price of $32.00 on December 3, 1999 on the
New  York  Stock  Exchange  was  $4,325,127,104.   Calculation  of  holdings  by
non-affiliates  is based upon the  assumption,  for these  purposes  only,  that
executive officers,  directors,  nominees,  Registrant's Profit Sharing Plan and
persons holding 5% or more of Registrant's  Common Stock are affiliates.  Number
of shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding at December 3, 1999:
250,264,170.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Certain portions of the  Registrant's  proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  to be held  January  27,  2000,  which  was filed  under  cover of
Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on December
16, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement"), are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this report.

                    INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                                                            PAGE NUMBER
FORM 10-K                                                   REFERENCE TO THIS
REQUIRED INFORMATION                                        1999 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                            ON FORM 10-K
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART I
         ITEM 1.           BUSINESS
                           General Business Summary
                           Investment Advisory and Related Services
                           Banking/Finance Operations
                           Regulatory Considerations
                           Competition
                           Company History
                           Company Background Information
                           Financial Information about Industry Segments

         ITEM 2.           PROPERTIES

         ITEM 3.           LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         ITEM 4.           SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
                           SECURITY HOLDERS

PART II

         ITEM 5.           MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
                           RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         ITEM 6.           SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         ITEM 7.           MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                           OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                           OPERATION


         ITEM 7A.          QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
                           ABOUT MARKET RISK

         ITEM 8.           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                           SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         ITEM 9.           CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
                           ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

PART III

         ITEM 10.          DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
                           THE REGISTRANT
                           Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors" *

         ITEM 11.          EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                           Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors" *

         ITEM 12.          SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
                           BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
                           Proxy: "Principal Holders of Voting Securities"
                           and "Security Ownership of Management" *

         ITEM 13.          CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                           TRANSACTIONS
                           Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors -
                           Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" *
PART IV

         ITEM 14.          EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
                           AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                           Consolidated Financial Statements
                           Reports on Form 8-K
                           List of Exhibits

     *Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement.


Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  files  reports with the SEC.  Copies of any of these
filings  can be  obtained  from the  SEC's  Public  Reference  Room at 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

We also file  reports  with the SEC  electronically  via the  Internet.  The SEC
maintains  an  Internet  site  that  contains  reports,  proxy  and  information
statements,  and other information  regarding  issuers that file  electronically
with the SEC, at http:  //www.sec.gov.  Additional  information  about  Franklin
Resources, Inc. can be obtained at our website at http:
//www.frk.com.
                                    PART I

"Forward-looking  Statements."  When used in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K,
words or phrases  about the future such as  "expected  to," "could  have," "will
continue,"    "anticipates,"    "estimates,"   or   similar    expressions   are
"forward-looking  statements"  as defined in the Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.  Statements  in  "Business,"  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis"  ("MD&A"),  and elsewhere in this document that speculate about future
events are  "forward-looking  statements." These types of statements are subject
to certain risks and uncertainties as described below,  including the factors in
"MD&A -- Specific Risks  Associated  with the Year 2000" and " -- Risk Factors."
These  risks  and  uncertainties  could  cause  our  current   expectations  and
predictions  in the  forward-looking  statements  to be  wrong.  Forward-looking
statements  are our best  prediction  at the time that  they are  made,  and you
should not rely on them. Rather, you should read the forward-looking  statements
in  conjunction  with  the  risk  disclosures  in  this  Annual  Report.   If  a
circumstance  occurs that  causes any of our  forward-looking  statements  to be
inaccurate, Franklin Resources, Inc. does not have an obligation to publicly
release the change to our expectations,  or to make any revision to the
forward-looking statements.

Item 1. Business

General Business Summary
- ------------------------
Franklin Resources, Inc. ("FRI") was organized in Delaware in November 1969. FRI
and its predecessors, have been engaged in the financial services business since
1947.  The  common  stock of FRI is traded on stock  exchanges  under the ticker
symbol "BEN" in the United  States and  elsewhere,  and under the ticker  symbol
"FKR"  in  London.  The  term  "Franklin("R")  Templeton("R")"  as  used in this
document, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The majority of our operating  revenues,  operating  expenses and net income are
derived from providing investment advisory and related services to retail mutual
funds,  institutional  and  private  accounts,  and  other  investment  products
globally.   Related  services  include  transfer  agency,  fund  administration,
custodial, trustee and fiduciary services. This is our primary business activity
and  operating  segment.  The mutual  funds and other  products  that we advise,
collectively called our sponsored  investment  products,  are sold to the public
under three brand names:  Franklin,  Templeton,  and Mutual Series("TM").  These
sponsored   investment   products   include  a  broad  range  of  domestic   and
global/international equity, fixed-income and money market mutual funds, as well
as other  investment  products that meet a wide variety of  investment  needs of
individuals and institutions.  From time to time, we also participate in various
investment management joint ventures.

Our secondary  business activity and operating segment is  banking/finance.  Our
banking/finance  group  offers  consumer  lending and  selected  retail  banking
services direct to the public.

The majority of our U.S.-registered  funds are registered  investment  companies
under  the  Investment  Company  Act of 1940  (the " '40  Act").  Our  sponsored
investment products include approximately 230 open-end and closed-end investment
companies. The open-end investment companies (mutual funds) are organized within
approximately 40 larger open-end investment  companies with multiple portfolios.
Two of these  mutual  funds  offer  products  only to the  separate  accounts of
insurance  companies.  On a consolidated  worldwide  basis,  Franklin  Templeton
provides U.S. and international  individual and  institutional  investors with a
broad  range of  investment  products  and  services  designed  to meet  varying
investment  objectives.  This  affords our clients the  opportunity  to allocate
their  investment  resources among various  alternative  investment  products as
changing worldwide economic and market conditions warrant.

Franklin  Templeton's  equity  investment  products  reflect  both a value and a
growth style of investing.  Value  investing  focuses on  identifying  companies
which our research analysts and portfolio managers believe are undervalued based
on a number of factors. Growth investing relies on the review of macro-economic,
industry and sector trends to identify  companies that exhibit  superior  growth
potential  relative  to  industry  peers  and the  broad  market.  Unlike  other
management  styles that focus on short-term  market  trends,  our portfolio team
invests in companies demonstrating  long-term growth potential,  based mainly on
proprietary in-house research.

We originated our fund business with the Franklin Group of  Funds("R")and  added
the other fund brand names through  acquisitions, which are described in the
"Company History" section below. When used in this report,  the following
terms  generally  apply unless  otherwise  noted.  Information in this report is
given as of September 30, 1999 unless otherwise noted.

"Franklin Templeton mutual funds"        All of the Franklin, Templeton and
or "Franklin Templeton funds" means:     Mutual Series mutual funds.

"Sponsored investment products" means:   All of the  Franklin,  Templeton  and
                                         Mutual Series mutual funds; closed-end
                                         investment   companies;  foreign-based
                                         investment products;   and  other  U.S.
                                         and   international   private   and
                                         institutional accounts.

Our revenues are largely  dependent  upon the level and relative  composition of
assets under  management.  To a lesser degree,  our revenues also depend upon on
the  level of mutual  fund  sales and the  number  of  mutual  fund  shareholder
accounts.  These  factors are  discussed  below under  "Investment  Advisory and
Related Services - Assets Under Management".

As of September 30, 1999,  total assets under  management by Franklin  Templeton
were $218.1  billion.  Assets under  management  included  $170.2 billion in the
U.S.-registered  mutual funds (including  insurance  dedicated funds), and $47.9
billion in closed-end  investment companies,  foreign-based  investment products
and U.S. and foreign  private and  institutional  accounts.  This makes Franklin
Templeton one of the largest investment management complexes in the world.

I.  Investment Advisory and Related Services
- --------------------------------------------
Franklin  Templeton's  principal  line  of  business  is  providing  investment,
advisory and  management  services.  In support of our core  business,  Franklin
Templeton  provides  the  following  support  services;   fund   administration,
shareholder  processing,  distribution  and related  services for the  sponsored
investment products. Fund shares are offered to individual investors,  qualified
groups,  trustees,  tax-deferred (such as IRA) or money purchase plans, employee
benefit and profit sharing plans,  trust companies,  bank trust  departments and
institutional investors. In addition,  various management and advisory services,
commingled and pooled accounts,  wrap fee arrangements and various other private
investment  management services are offered to certain private and institutional
investors.

As discussed below in "MD&A", Franklin Templeton's revenues are derived
primarily from its  investment  advisory  operating  segment.  Our revenues and
income are dependent  upon many factors,  such as the level and  composition
of our assets under  management,  the numbers and types of  shareholders  in our
funds and our agreements with the advisers that sell our products to the public.
These factors are described below in the following sections:

         a.   Assets Under Management
         b.   Asset Mix
         c.   Investment Management and Related Services
         d.   Types of Shares Offered by Our Funds
         e.   Distribution, Marketing and Related Services
         f.   Shareholder Servicing
         g.   Investment Objectives of Funds
         h.   Product Categorization

a.  Assets Under Management ("AUM")
- -----------------------------------
Franklin  Templeton's revenues depend to a large extent upon the dollar value of
assets under  management  because we earn most of our fees based upon the amount
of assets in the accounts that we are advising.

Type of Assets            Value in Billions                  % of Total AUM
- --------------            -----------------                  --------------

Equity                          $ 134.4                            61%
- ------
         Held for growth  potential,  income  potential or various  combinations
         thereof by all types of investors, including institutional and separate
         accounts, on a worldwide basis.

Fixed-income                     $ 67.9                            31%
- ------------
         Both long and short-term, held by all types of investors on a worldwide
         basis.

Hybrid Funds                     $ 10.2                             5%
- ------------
         Asset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds,
         held by all types of investors on a worldwide basis.

Money Funds                       $ 5.6                             3%
- -----------
         Short-term  liquid assets held by all types of investors on a worldwide
         basis.

b.  Asset Mix
- -------------
As  discussed  above,  our  revenues  are  derived   primarily  from  investment
management  activities.  Broadly  speaking,  the change in the net assets of the
funds depends upon two factors: (1) the level of sales of shares of the funds as
compared to redemptions of shares of the funds; and (2) the increase or decrease
in  the  market  value  of  the  securities  owned  by the  funds.  As  Franklin
Templeton's  asset mix has shifted  since 1992 from  predominantly  fixed-income
securities to a majority of equity assets, Franklin Templeton has become subject
to an increased risk of asset, and therefore revenue, volatility from changes in
the domestic and global equity markets. This was evidenced in the fourth quarter
of  fiscal  1998 when a  substantial  decline  in the Asian and then the  global
equity  markets  caused a 12%  reduction  in Franklin  Templeton's  assets under
management and an 11% decline in our operating revenues. In addition, because we
generally  derive higher revenues and income from our equity assets,  a shift in
assets from equity to fixed-income would have a greater than proportional impact
on total income and revenues. Despite such volatility,  management believes that
in the  long run  Franklin  Templeton  is more  competitive  as a result  of the
greater diversity of investment products available to its customers.

Many factors affect market values,  including the general  condition of national
and world  economics and the  direction and volume of changes in interest  rates
and/or  inflation  rates.  Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield curve
affect the value of fixed-income  assets under management as well as the flow of
monies to and from  fixed-income  funds. In turn, this affects our revenues from
those funds. The  multiplicity of factors  impacting asset mix make it difficult
to predict the net effect of any particular set of conditions.

Although Franklin  Templeton's  assets under management are subject to political
and currency risk due to our  international  investment  activities,  our direct
exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency markets is limited, as is discussed
in more detail in "MD&A."

c.    Investment Management and Related Services
- ------------------------------------------------
Franklin Templeton provides investment advisory, portfolio management,  transfer
agency,  business  management  agent and  administrative  services to  sponsored
investment products.  Various Franklin Templeton subsidiary companies manage and
implement the  investment  activities of sponsored  mutual funds and provide the
business  management and/or  administrative  services which are necessary to the
operation of each fund's  business.  Subsidiary  companies also conduct research
and provide the investment  advisory services and determine which securities the
funds will purchase,  hold or sell as directed by each fund's board of trustees,
directors or administrative managers. In addition, the subsidiary companies take
all steps necessary to implement such decisions, including selecting brokers and
dealers,  executing and settling trades in accordance with detailed criteria set
forth  in the  management  agreement  for  each  fund,  and  applicable  law and
practice.   Similar  services  are  rendered  with  respect  to  the  closed-end
investment  companies,  foreign-based  funds and other  U.S.  and  international
private and institutional accounts.

The  investment   advisory  services  provided  by  Franklin  Templeton  include
fundamental  investment  research and  valuation  analyses,  including  original
economic,   political,   industry  and  company  research,  company  visits  and
inspections,  and the  utilization of such sources as company public records and
activities,  management  interviews,  company  prepared  information,  and other
publicly available information, as well as analyses of suppliers,  customers and
competitors. In addition, research services provided by brokerage firms are used
to support other research.

In some  instances,  brokerage  firms  agree to pay  third-party  providers  for
research provided to Franklin Templeton's  advisory  subsidiaries in recognition
of brokerage  business  which may be (but is not  contractually  required to be)
directed to those brokerage firms by Franklin Templeton's advisory  subsidiaries
in accordance  with SEC  regulations.  In accordance  with the provisions of the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  (the " '34  Act")  and as  permitted  by fund
prospectuses and contracts with individual accounts,  the investment adviser may
also direct brokerage firms for execution  services as permitted by the National
Association of Securities Dealers (the "NASD"). When best execution is available
from more than one broker,  the investment  adviser may direct trades to brokers
who sell shares of the funds advised by that investment adviser.

Fixed-income research includes economic, credit and value analysis. The economic
analysis  function  monitors and evaluates  numerous  factors that influence the
supply and demand for credit on a worldwide  basis.  Credit analysis  researches
the  creditworthiness  of debt  issuers  and  their  individual  short-term  and
long-term debt issues.  Value analysis reviews yield spread differential and the
relative   value  of  market   sectors   that   represent   buying  and  selling
opportunities.

Investment  management and related services are provided  pursuant to agreements
in effect with each of our U.S.-registered  Franklin Templeton funds. Comparable
agreements  are  in  effect  with  foreign-registered  funds  and  with  private
accounts.  The management agreements for our U.S.-registered  Franklin Templeton
funds must be renewed  each year,  and must be  specifically  approved  at least
annually by a vote of such funds' board of trustees or directors or by a vote of
the holders of a majority  of such  funds'  outstanding  voting  securities.  In
either  event,  renewal  must be  approved  by a  majority  vote of such  funds'
trustees  or  directors  who are not  parties to such  agreement  or  interested
persons of any such  party  (other  than as  members  of the  board)  within the
meaning of the '40 Act,  cast in person at a meeting  called  for that  purpose.
Foreign  registered funds have various  termination  rights,  review and renewal
provisions that are not discussed in this report.

Each U.S.  management or advisory  agreement between Franklin Templeton and each
fund  automatically  terminates in the event of its  "assignment" (as defined in
the '40 Act).  "Assignment" is defined in the '40 Act as including any direct or
indirect transfer of a controlling  block of voting stock.  "Control" is defined
as the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies
of a company. Therefore, if there was a change in control of Franklin Templeton,
such as through a merger or an acquisition,  the majority of the U.S. management
and  advisory   agreements   with  the  sponsored   investment   products  would
automatically  terminate. In addition,  either party may terminate the agreement
without penalty after written notice ranging from 30 to 60 days.

If management agreements  representing a significant portion of our assets under
management  were  terminated,  it would  have a material  adverse  impact on our
company. To date, no management agreements of Franklin Templeton with any of the
Franklin Templeton funds have been involuntarily terminated.

Franklin  Templeton also provides  investment  management,  advisory and related
services  to   closed-end   investment   companies,   foreign-based   funds  and
institutional accounts.  Changes in the customer base of institutional investors
occur on a regular basis.

The funds themselves have no employees.  Generally,  Franklin Templeton provides
and pays the  salaries  of  personnel  who  serve as  officers  of the  Franklin
Templeton funds,  including the President and other administrative  personnel as
necessary to conduct such funds' day-to-day business operations. These personnel
provide  information,  ensure compliance with securities  regulations,  maintain
accounting  systems and  controls,  prepare  annual  reports  and perform  other
administrative activities. Various subsidiaries have contracts with the funds to
provide additional  services  including  maintaining a fund's portfolio records,
answering shareholder inquiries, and creating and publishing literature.

The funds  generally pay their own expenses such as legal,  custody and auditing
fees,  reporting  costs,  board and  shareholder  meeting  costs,  SEC and state
registration fees and similar expenses.  The funds also pay Franklin Templeton a
fee payable monthly in arrears based upon a fund's net assets.  Annual fee rates
under the various global investment  management  agreements generally range from
0.15% to a maximum of 2.00% and are often reduced as net assets  exceed  various
threshold levels.

Our investment  management  agreements permit Franklin  Templeton to serve as an
adviser to more than one fund so long as our ability to render  services to each
of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales appropriate for
all of the advised funds are made on a proportionate  or other equitable  basis.
The management  personnel of Franklin Templeton and the fund directors or boards
of trustees  regularly  review the fund  advisory and other  administrative  fee
structures  in  light of fund  performance,  the  level  and  range of  services
provided,  industry  conditions and other relevant  factors.  Advisory and other
administrative  fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund
is established  and then  increased to contractual  levels within an established
timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

Franklin Templeton uses a "master/feeder"  fund structure in limited situations.
This  structure  allows an  investment  adviser to manage a single  portfolio of
securities at the "master fund" level and have  multiple  "feeder  funds" invest
all  of  their   respective   assets  into  the  master  fund.   Individual  and
institutional  shareholders  invest  in the  "feeder  funds"  which  can offer a
variety of service and distribution  options.  An advisory fee is charged at the
master fund level, and administrative and shareholder servicing fees are charged
at the feeder fund level.

Franklin Templeton also sponsors a real estate investment trust and several real
estate investment partnerships. A Franklin Templeton subsidiary earns management
fees pursuant to agreements with these investment  vehicles.  Franklin Templeton
is currently  exiting this business.  The revenues and expenses  related to this
business are immaterial to Franklin Templeton.

d.  Types of Shares Offered by Our Funds
- ----------------------------------------
Most of the  U.S.-registered  Franklin  Templeton funds have a multi-class share
structure.  Franklin Templeton adopted this share structure to provide investors
with greater  sales  charge  alternatives  for their  investments.  In 1999,  we
changed the names of the share classes that we offer in the United States. Class
A shares (formerly Class I shares) represent a traditional fee structure whereby
the  investor  pays a commission  at the time of purchase to the  broker/dealer.
During 1999,  we introduced  Class B shares for 35 mutual  funds,  which have no
front-end  sales charges but instead have a declining  schedule of sales charges
(called  contingent  deferred sales charges) if the investor  redeems within the
first six (6) years.  For Class B shares,  the  commission  is  advanced  by the
fund's distributor to pay the  broker/dealer.  Class C shares (formerly Class II
shares)  have a hybrid,  level  load  pricing  structure  combining  aspects  of
conventional  front-end,  back-end  and  level-load  pricing.

In the United  States,  we also  offer  Advisor  Class  shares in  Franklin  and
Templeton  funds and Z Class shares in Mutual  Series funds on a limited  basis,
both of which have no sales charges.  The Advisor and Z Class shares are sold to
officers, directors and employees of Franklin Templeton, and are also offered to
institutions and investment advisory clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated),
as well as individuals  investing $5 million or more. In addition,  shareholders
who held shares of the Mutual Series funds at the time that  Franklin  Templeton
acquired  Mutual  Series  may  continue  to  purchase Z Class  shares.  Franklin
Templeton also sells money market funds to investors for no sales charge.  Under
the terms and  conditions  described in the  prospectuses  or the  statements of
additional  information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at
net  asset  value or at  reduced  sales  charges.  In  addition,  investors  may
generally  exchange  their shares of a fund at net asset value for shares within
the same class of another fund in the Franklin  Templeton group  without having
to pay additional sales charges.

The  Franklin  Templeton  insurance  product  funds each have a two class  share
structure,  Class 1 and  Class 2,  both of which  are  sold at net  asset  value
without  a sales  load to the  insurance  company  separate  accounts.  The only
difference between the two classes is that Class 2 shareholders pay a Rule 12b-1
Plan fee (as described below in "Distribution,  Marketing and Related Services")
to Franklin  Templeton,  which is generally assessed quarterly at an annual rate
of 0.25% of the  average  daily net assets of that  class.  Proceeds of the Rule
12b-1 Plan fee are used to pay for  distribution and other expenses of the Class
2  shares,  and of the  insurance  contracts  for  which  Class 2 shares  are an
investment option.

The following table  summarizes the U.S. retail fund sales and  distribution fee
structure for various share classes.

Fees Paid by Shareholders to Franklin Templeton for Most U.S.-Registered  Retail
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Funds
- -----



(a) Reductions in the maximum sales charges may be available  depending upon the
amount  invested  and the type of  investor.  In some cases noted in each fund's
prospectus or statement of additional information,  certain investors may invest
in Class A shares at net asset value (with no load).  In connection with certain
of these no-load  purchases,  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. may make a
payment out of its own resources to a broker/dealer involved with that sale.

(b)For NAV purchases over $1 million, a contingent deferred sales charge of 1.0%
may apply to shares redeemed within one year.

(c) Class B shares convert to Class A shares after eight (8) years of ownership.

(d) When Franklin Resources,  Inc. acquired the management  contracts for Mutual
Series funds, the existing shares of Mutual Series funds were  reclassified as Z
Class  shares  in  exchange  for  the  shares  that  they  held  at  that  time.
Shareholders  who held  shares  of the  Mutual  Series  funds  at the time  that
Franklin  Templeton  acquired  Mutual  Series may  continue  to purchase Z Class
shares.

e.  Distribution, Marketing and Related Services
- ------------------------------------------------
Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,   Inc.   ("Distributors"),   a   wholly-owned
subsidiary of Franklin  Resources,  Inc., acts as the principal  underwriter and
distributor of shares of the U.S.-registered  open-end Franklin Templeton funds.
Distributors  has entered into  underwriting  agreements  with the funds,  which
generally  provide for Distributors to pay the commission  expenses for sales of
fund shares.  Franklin  Templeton fund shares are sold primarily through a large
network of independent intermediaries, including broker/dealers, banks and other
similar  investment  advisers.  We are heavily dependent upon these distribution
channels and business relationships.  There is increasing competition for access
to these  channels,  which has caused our  distribution  costs to rise and could
cause  further  increases  in the future as  competition  continues  and service
expectations  increase. In addition,  many intermediaries also have mutual funds
offered for sale under their own names that compete  directly with our products.
These  intermediaries  could  decide to limit or  restrict  the sale of our fund
shares, which could lower our future sales, increase redemption rates, and cause
our revenues to decline.  As of September 30, 1999,  approximately  3,700 local,
regional and national  securities  brokerage  firms  offered  shares of the U.S.
- -registered  Franklin  Templeton funds for sale to the investing  public. In the
United States,  Franklin Templeton has approximately 62 general  wholesalers and
six (6) retirement wholesalers who interface with the broker/dealer community.

Broker/dealers  receive  various  fees from  Distributors,  including  fees from
investors  and the funds,  for services in matching  investors  with funds whose
investment   objectives   match  such   investors'   goals  and  risk  profiles.
Broker/dealers  may also receive fees for their  assistance  in  explaining  the
operations of the funds,  in servicing  the  investor's  account,  reporting and
various other distribution services.


Most of the  U.S.-registered  Franklin  Templeton  funds,  with the exception of
certain Franklin  Templeton money market funds, have adopted  distribution plans
(the "Plans") under Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the '40 Act ("Rule 12b-1"). The
Plans are established for an initial term of one (1) year and, thereafter,  must
be approved annually by the fund boards and by a majority of disinterested  fund
directors.  All such Plans are subject to  termination at any time by a majority
vote of the  disinterested  directors or by the funds'  shareholders.  The Plans
permit the funds to bear certain expenses  relating to the distribution of their
shares,  such  as  expenses  for  marketing,  advertising,  printing  and  sales
promotion.  Fees under the Plans for the different share classes are shown above
in the chart under "Types of Shares Offered by Our Funds." The implementation of
the  Plans  provided  for a lower  fee on Class A shares  acquired  prior to the
adoption of such Plans.  Fees from the Plans are paid  primarily to  third-party
dealers  who provide  service to the  shareholder  accounts,  and also engage in
distribution  activities.  Distributors may also receive  reimbursement from the
funds for various expenses that Distributors incurs involved in distributing the
funds, such as marketing,  advertising,  printing and sales promotion subject to
the Plans'  limitations on amounts.  Each fund has a percentage  limit for these
type of expenses based on average assets under management.

Class B and C shares are  generally  more costly to us in the year of sale,  but
they  allow  us  to  be  competitive  by  increasing  our  presence  in  various
distribution  channels.  On September 30, 1999,  Franklin Templeton concluded an
arrangement  to finance  payments of the Class B share broker  commissions.  The
repayment of the  financing  advances is limited to the cash flows  generated by
the funds' 12b-1 Plans and by any contingent deferred sales charges collected in
connection with early redemptions (within six years after purchase).

The fees below generally  apply to our  U.S.-registered  retail funds,  however,
there are exceptions to this fee schedule for some funds.

Fees Paid by Franklin Templeton to Broker/Dealers and Other Intermediaries
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
for Most U.S.-Registered Retail Funds
- -------------------------------------

U.S. Retail Funds     Class A Shares        Class B Shares       Class C Shares
=================   ==================     ================    ================

Dealer Commission
at Time of Sale
     Equity                  5.0%                4.0%                  2.0%
     Fixed-income            4.0%                3.0%                  2.0%
- ------------------       -------------      --------------        -------------
Maximum Yearly
12b-1 Plan Fees
     Equity                  0.25%               1.0%                  1.0%  (a)
     Fixed-income
          Taxable            0.25%               0.65%                 0.65% (b)
          Tax-free           0.10%               0.65%                 0.65% (b)
- ------------------       -------------      ----------------      -------------

(a) Franklin Templeton retains a fee equal to 0.75% of the assets in the account
for the first  twelve (12)  months  following  the sale,  after which it is paid
annually to the broker/dealer.

(b) Franklin Templeton retains a fee equal to 0.50% of the assets in the account
for the first  twelve (12)  months  following  the sale,  after which it is paid
annually to the broker/dealer.

f.  Shareholder Servicing
- -------------------------
Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  ("FTISI") is a Franklin Templeton
subsidiary  which  provides  shareholder  record  keeping  services  and acts as
transfer  agent  and  dividend-paying  agent  for the  U.S.-registered  Franklin
Templeton  open-end funds.  FTISI is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent
under the '34 Act. FTISI is compensated under an agreement with each fund on the
basis of a fixed annual fee per account, which varies with the fund and the type
of services being provided, and is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses.  FTISI
charges an annual fee per billable shareholder account.

Other  subsidiaries  provide the same services to the open-end funds offered for
sale in Canada, Europe and Asia under similar fee arrangements.  As of September
30, 1999, there were approximately 9.6 million billable  shareholder accounts in
the worldwide Franklin Templeton group.

g.  Investment Objectives of Funds
- ----------------------------------
Franklin  Templeton's  sponsored  investment  products  accommodate a variety of
investment goals,  including capital  appreciation,  growth and income,  income,
tax-free  income and  preservation  of  capital.  In  seeking  to  achieve  such
objectives,   each  portfolio  emphasizes   different   investment   securities.
Portfolios that seek capital  appreciation invest primarily in equity securities
in a wide variety of international  and U.S.  markets;  some seek broad national
market exposure, while others focus on narrower sectors such as precious metals,
health care, emerging technology,  mid-cap companies,  small-cap companies, real
estate securities and utilities.  Portfolios seeking income focus on taxable and
tax-exempt  money  market  instruments,   tax-exempt   municipal  bonds,  global
fixed-income securities, fixed-income debt securities of corporations and of the
U.S.  government and its agencies and  instrumentalities  such as the Government
National Mortgage Association,  the Federal National Mortgage  Association,  and
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. Still others focus on investments in
particular  countries and regions,  such as emerging markets.  A majority of the
assets managed are equity-oriented.

Franklin Templeton also provides investment management and related services to a
number of  closed-end  investment  companies  whose shares are traded on various
major U.S. and some  international  stock  exchanges.  In  addition,  we provide
investment management,  marketing and distribution services to certain sponsored
investment  companies  organized in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (called "SICAV
Funds"),  which are  distributed in  marketplaces  outside of North America,  to
certain  investment  funds and  portfolios in Canada as well as to certain other
international portfolios in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.

In addition to closed-end funds, our sponsored  investment products also include
portfolios  managed for some of the world's  largest  corporations,  endowments,
charitable   foundations,   pension  funds,   wealthy   individuals   and  other
institutions.  We use various investment  techniques to focus on specific client
objectives for these specialized portfolios.

As of  September  30,  1999,  the net assets  under  management  of our five (5)
largest  funds were  Franklin  California  Tax-Free  Income  Fund,  Inc.  ($14.5
billion),  Templeton Growth Fund ($13.9 billion),  Templeton Foreign Fund ($12.9
billion),  Templeton  World  Fund  ($9.3  billion)  and the  Franklin  Custodian
Funds-U.S.  Government ($8.3 billion).  These five (5) mutual funds represented,
in the aggregate, 27.0% of all Franklin Templeton's assets under management.


Franklin  Templeton  also  offers a total of 36 funds in the  United  States  to
insurance company separate accounts  as investment options for variable annuity
and variable  life  insurance  contracts.  Most of the funds related to variable
insurance  contracts  have been  fashioned  after some of the more popular funds
offered  to the  general  public and are  managed,  in most  cases,  by the same
investment adviser.

h. Product  Categorization  --------------------------  The  Investment  Company
Institute  (the  "ICI"),  an industry  group of which  Franklin  Templeton  is a
member,  has developed  detailed  definitions  for the investment  objectives of
U.S.-registered   mutual   funds  and  variable   annuity  and   variable   life
sub-accounts.  In  addition to the mutual  fund  assets  described  in the chart
below,  Franklin Templeton also manages  approximately $47.9 billion, 22% of our
assets, in closed-end investment  companies,  foreign-based funds and other U.S.
and  international  private  and  institutional  accounts.  Approximately  $22.9
billion of these assets are held in private accounts.  The investment objectives
of these accounts vary but are primarily  equity-oriented.  Approximately  $20.9
billion of these assets are held in  international-based  funds whose investment
objectives vary but are primarily international and global equity-oriented;  and
$4.1 billion is in U.S.-registered funds in various investment vehicles. Amounts
invested by our  institutional  clients across product types,  including  mutual
funds, trusts, and private accounts, were $41.6 billion at September 30, 1999.

From time to time, as business  reasons,  market  conditions or investor  demand
warrant,  Franklin  Templeton  introduces new funds,  merges  existing funds, or
liquidates existing funds. The following chart shows our U.S.-registered  mutual
funds and  dedicated  insurance  product  funds as of September  30,  1999.  The
categories  used in this  chart  are  more  precise  than the  broad  investment
objective  categories  used  in  "MD&A  "and  in  our  "Consolidated   Financial
Statements." The following chart is categorized using the ICI definitions.












II.  Banking/Finance Operations
- -------------------------------

Franklin Templeton's second operating segment is banking/finance,  through which
we offer consumer  banking  services,  insured  deposits,  dealer auto loans and
credit cards. A more detailed  analysis of the financial  effects of loan losses
and delinquency rates in Franklin  Templeton's  consumer lending and dealer auto
loan  business,  as well as the funding of this  activity,  is  contained in the
"MD&A-Operating  Revenues." These activities are carried out by the subsidiaries
described below.

Franklin  Bank, a subsidiary  of Franklin  Templeton,  had total assets of $76.3
million as of September 30, 1999,  and provides  consumer  banking  products and
services such as credit cards, auto loans,  deposit accounts and consumer loans.
The bank does not exercise its  commercial  lending  powers in order to maintain
its status as a "non-bank  bank" pursuant to the  provisions of the  Competitive
Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA") which permits FRI, a "non-banking company"
prior to CEBA,  to remain  exempt  from the Bank  Holding  Company Act under the
"grandfathering"  provisions of CEBA. The bank has an application pending before
the Office of Thrift Supervision to convert its California state banking charter
to a Federal thrift charter which, if approved, will eliminate the applicability
of CEBA and,  accordingly,  CEBA imposed restrictions on bank activities such as
the prohibition on making commercial loans.

Franklin  Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a  subsidiary  of Franklin  Templeton
formed to expand Franklin Templeton's auto lending activities.  FCC conducts its
business primarily in the Western region of the United States and originates its
loans through a network of auto dealerships representing a wide variety of makes
and models.  FCC offers several  different loan programs to finance new and used
vehicles  and is a  trust  company  licensed  by the  California  Department  of
Financial  Institutions.  FCC has in the past acquired  credit card  receivables
from Franklin Bank. As of September 30, 1999, FCC's total assets included $81.1
million of gross  automobile  contracts  and $39.5  million of gross credit card
receivables. During fiscal 1999, FCC securitized approximately $106.2 million of
auto loan  receivables.  FCC continues to service  $164.8 million of receivables
that  have  been  securitized  to date.  See  Note 4 of  Notes to the  Financial
Statements.

Our  securitized   consumer  receivables  business  is  subject  to  marketplace
fluctuation and competes with businesses with  significantly  larger portfolios.
Auto loan and credit card portfolio  losses can be influenced  significantly  by
trends in the economy and credit  markets  which  reduce  borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.



III.  Regulatory Considerations
- -------------------------------

Virtually all aspects of Franklin Templeton's  businesses are subject to various
foreign,  and U.S. federal and state, laws and regulations.  As discussed above,
Franklin  Templeton and a number of our subsidiaries are registered with various
foreign, and U.S. federal and state,  governmental  agencies.  These supervisory
agencies  have  broad  administrative  powers,  including  the power to limit or
restrict  Franklin  Templeton from carrying on our business if we fail to comply
with  applicable  laws and  regulations.  In the  event of  non-compliance,  the
possible sanctions which may be imposed include suspending individual employees,
limiting Franklin Templeton's (or a subsidiary's)  ability to engage in business
for specified periods of time,  revoking the investment adviser or broker/dealer
registrations, or similar foreign registrations, as well as censures and fines.

Franklin  Templeton's  compliance  procedures meet the standards outlined in the
most  recent  guidelines  of the  ICI  related  to  securities  transactions  by
employees,  officers and directors of investment companies. Franklin Templeton's
officers, directors and employees may from time to time own securities which are
also held by the funds.  Franklin  Templeton's internal policies with respect to
individual  investments by certain  employees,  including officers and directors
who are employed by Franklin Templeton, require prior clearance and reporting of
most  transactions and restrict certain  transactions to address the possibility
of conflicts of interest.

To the extent that existing or future regulations cause or contribute to reduced
sales of fund shares or investment products or impair the investment performance
of the funds or such other investment products,  our assets under management and
revenues  might be adversely  affected.  Changes in  regulations  affecting free
movement  of  international  currencies  might also  adversely  affect  Franklin
Templeton.

Franklin  Templeton,  including  certain  of our  subsidiaries,  is  subject  to
increased scrutiny and a substantially-increased  volume of compliance reporting
related to our plan,  activities  and the  associated  costs related to the Year
2000, as discussed in more detail in "MD&A-Year 2000."



Since 1993,  the NASD Conduct  Rules have limited the amount of aggregate  sales
charges  which  may be paid in  connection  with the  purchase  and  holding  of
investment company shares sold through brokers.  The effect of the rule might be
to limit the amount of fees that could be paid  pursuant to a fund's  12b-1 Plan
to  Distributors,  a subsidiary of Franklin  Templeton  that earns  underwriting
commissions on the distribution of fund shares.  Such limitations would apply in
a situation where a fund has no, or limited, new sales for a prolonged period of
time.  None of the Franklin  Templeton funds are in, or close to, that situation
at the present time.

IV.  Competition
- ----------------
The  financial  services  industry is highly  competitive  and has  increasingly
become a global industry.  There are over 7,500 open-end investment companies of
varying sizes, investment policies and objectives whose shares are being offered
to the public in the United States.  Due to Franklin  Templeton's  international
presence and varied  product mix, it is difficult to assess our market  position
relative  to other  investment  managers  on a  worldwide  basis,  but  Franklin
Templeton  believes  that we are one of the more widely  diversified  investment
managers in the United States.  Franklin  Templeton believes that our equity and
fixed-income  asset  mix  coupled  with  our  global  presence  will  serve  our
competitive needs well over the long term. Franklin Templeton continues to focus
on service to  customers,  performance  of  investment  products  and  extensive
marketing   activities  with  our  strong   broker/dealer  and  other  financial
institution distribution network.

Franklin  Templeton faces strong  competition  from numerous stock brokerage and
investment  banking  firms,   insurance  companies,   banks,  savings  and  loan
associations and other financial  institutions  which also offer a wide range of
financial services.  In recent years, there has been a trend of consolidation in
the financial services industry,  resulting in stronger competitors with greater
financial resources than Franklin Templeton.

Although we rely on  intermediaries  to sell and distribute  Franklin  Templeton
fund shares, many of these intermediaries also have mutual funds under their own
names that  compete  directly  with our  products.  The  banking  industry  also
continues to expand its sponsorship of proprietary funds.  These  intermediaries
could decide to limit or restrict the sale of our fund shares, which could lower
our future sales and cause our revenues to decline.  Franklin  Templeton has and
continues  to pursue sales  relationships  with all types of  intermediaries  to
broaden our  distribution  network.  We are  currently  expanding  our  Internet
e-business  to compete with the rapidly  developing  and  evolving  capabilities
being offered with this technology.  It is not currently possible to predict the
effect of the  Internet  on  Franklin  Templeton  or on the  financial  services
industry overall.



As investor  interest in the mutual fund  industry  has  increased,  competitive
pressures have increased on sales charges of  broker/dealer  distributed  funds.
Franklin  Templeton  believes  that,  although  this  trend  will  continue,   a
significant  portion of the investing public still relies on the services of the
broker/dealer community,  particularly during weaker market conditions. Franklin
Templeton  has  experienced  increased  demand for payments to its  distribution
channels and anticipates that this trend will continue.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing  trends
as a result of our  already  extensive  advertising  activities  and broad based
marketplace  recognition.  Franklin  Templeton does significant  advertising and
conducts  sales  promotions  through  various  media  sources to  promote  brand
recognition.  We advertise in major national financial publications,  as well as
on radio and  television  to promote  brand name  recognition  and to assist its
distribution  network.  Such activities  included  purchasing  network and cable
programming,  sponsorship of sporting  events,  such as the "Franklin  Templeton
Shark  Shoot-Out",   sponsorship  of  The  Nightly  Business  Report  on  public
television, and extensive newspaper and magazine advertising.

Diverse  and  strong  competition  affects  the  banking/finance  segment of our
business as well,  and limits the interest  rates that we can charge on consumer
loans. We compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans,  including
the finance subsidiaries of large automobile manufacturers.

V.  Company History
- --------------------
In October 1992, Franklin Templeton acquired substantially all of the assets and
liabilities of the investment  adviser to the Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger
Ltd. financial services business. This acquisition added the Templeton family of
funds to our company.

In November 1996,  Franklin Templeton acquired certain assets and liabilities of
Heine Securities  Corporation,  which provided investment management services to
various  accounts and investment  companies,  including Mutual Series Fund Inc.,
now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. ("Mutual  Series").  Subsequent to
the Mutual  acquisition,  Franklin  Templeton  has  managed  Mutual  Series on a
unified basis with its other business operations.


The  purchase  price paid at the  closing of the Mutual  acquisition  was funded
through a combination of available  cash,  securities and the sale of commercial
paper.  The base  purchase  price  consisted of $551 million in cash,  including
acquisition  expenses,  and the  delivery  of 3.3  million  shares of FRI common
stock. The purchase price included the deposit into escrow of $150 million to be
invested in shares of Mutual Series.  The escrow money shares are being released
over a five-year  period from the date of the  acquisition,  with a minimum $100
million  retention  for the  full  five-year  period.  In  addition  to the base
purchase  price,  the  transaction  included a contingent  payment  ranging from
$96.25 million to $192.5 million under certain conditions if certain agreed-upon
growth  targets are met over the five years  following  the  closing.  The first
contingent  payment of $64.2 million related to these agreed-upon growth targets
was made in the third  quarter of fiscal 1998 and was  accounted for as goodwill
related to additional purchase price of the Mutual  acquisition.  Other payments
are due in fiscal 2000 and 2001 if growth  targets are met.  See Note 2 of Notes
to the Financial Statements.

VI.  Company Background Information
- ------------------------------------
Franklin Templeton's  principal executive and administrative  offices are at 777
Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California  94404. As of September 30,
1999,  Franklin Templeton employed  approximately 6,700 employees on a worldwide
basis.  We  also  utilize  independent   contractors  as  necessary  and  employ
additional temporary help to meet unusual requirements.

Management  believes that its relations with its employees are good. However, we
face continued  competition  in hiring and retaining  qualified  employees.  The
competition  from other  companies to hire  qualified  employees has  increased,
particularly in certain geographic locations where the majority of our workforce
is employed and where unemployment rates are at historically low levels.

As of  September  30,  1999,  substantially  all of the  shares  of the  various
directly and indirectly owned subsidiary companies were owned directly by FRI or
subsidiaries  thereof,  except  with  respect  to a limited  number  of  foreign
entities  and limited  minority  ownership  of certain  other  companies.  As of
December  1, 1999,  Charles B.  Johnson,  Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr. and R. Martin
Wiskemann   beneficially   owned   approximately   18.85%,   15.27%  and  9.09%,
respectively, of the outstanding common stock of Franklin Templeton.

VII. Financial Information about Industry Segments
- ---------------------------------------------------
Information on Franklin  Templeton's  operations in various  geographic areas of
the world and a breakout of business segment  information is contained in Note 7
of Notes to the Financial Statements.


Item 2.   Properties

General Description
- -------------------
As of September 30, 1999,  Franklin  Templeton  leased offices and facilities in
ten (10)  locations in the  immediate  vicinity of its  principal  executive and
administrative  offices  located at 777 Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,
California.  In  addition,  Franklin  Templeton  owns seven (7)  buildings  near
Sacramento, California, as well as six (6) buildings in St. Petersburg, Florida,
two (2)  buildings  in Nassau,  Bahamas as well as space in office  buildings in
Argentina,  China and Singapore.  Certain  properties of Franklin Templeton were
under  construction  during  fiscal  1999 as  described  below.  Since  Franklin
Templeton is operated on a unified  basis,  corporate  activities,  fund related
activities,  accounting  operations,  sales, real estate and banking operations,
auto  loans  and  credit  cards,   management   information  system  activities,
publishing and printing  operations,  shareholder  service  operations and other
business  activities and operations  take place in a variety of such  locations.
Franklin  Templeton or its subsidiaries also lease office space in Florida,  New
York,  and  Utah and in  Australia,  Brazil,  Canada,  China,  England,  France,
Germany,  Holland,  Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea,  Luxembourg,  Poland,
Russia, Scotland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, and Turkey.



I.  Leased Properties
- ---------------------
As of September 30, 1999,  Franklin Templeton leased properties at the locations
set forth below:

                              Approximate     Approximate Current   Expiration
Location                     Square Footage   Base Monthly Rental      Date

777 Mariners Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404  (a)       176,000           $435,000        September 2009

1147 & 1149 Chess Drive
Foster City, CA  94404          90,000             $85,000          June 2000

500 East Broward Boulevard
Ft. Lauderdale, FL  33394      125,000            $229,000         December 2000

555 Airport Boulevard
Burlingame, CA                  94,000            $222,000          June 2006

1800 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA 94404             70,000            $207,000          August 2002

1810 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404            52,000            $124,000          June 2000

1950 Elkhorn Court (b)
San Mateo, CA  94403            37,000             $46,000          July 2001

901 & 951 Mariners Island                                         Between March
Boulevard, San Mateo, CA  94404 36,000             $79,000     1999 & April 2000

2000 Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403             36,000            $118,000       February 2005

51 JFK Parkway
Short Hills, NJ                 27,000             $79,000          May 2005

1850 Gateway Drive (c)
San Mateo, CA  94404            19,000             $34,000          July 2000

1400 Fashion Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404            17,000             $52,000         June 2002

Other U.S. Locations            50,000                --               --

Foreign Locations              274,000                --               --

(a)  Franklin Templeton owns an undivided 60% interest in this property.
(b)  Franklin  Templeton  terminated  the 1950 Elkhorn Court lease on
     December 1,1999.
(c)  Franklin Templeton terminated the 1850 Gateway lease on December 15, 1999.



II.  Owned Properties
- ---------------------
In Rancho Cordova, California, Franklin Templeton owns five (5) office buildings
totaling approximately 424,000 square feet, a data center/warehouse  facility of
approximately  162,000  square  feet and a warehouse  building of  approximately
69,000 square feet.

In St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  Franklin Templeton owns five (5) office buildings
totaling  approximately  370,00 square feet, as well as an  approximate  117,000
square foot facility devoted to a computer data center, training,  warehouse and
mailing operations in St. Petersburg,  Florida.  During November 1998,  Franklin
Templeton began  construction  of another office building in St.  Petersburg and
plans to occupy this building in June 2000.

Franklin  Templeton  owns  two (2)  office  buildings  in  Nassau,  Bahamas,  of
approximately   14,000  square  feet  and  approximately   25,000  square  feet,
respectively, as well as a nearby condominium residence. Franklin Templeton also
owns three (3) separate office-building floors of approximately 1,200, 8,000 and
10,000 square feet in Shanghai,  China, Buenos Aires, Argentina,  and Singapore,
respectively.

Franklin  Templeton is a  tenant-in-common  with a 60% undivided interest in the
property occupied by Franklin  Templeton at 777 Mariners Island  Boulevard,  San
Mateo,  California.  The  tenancy-in-common  assumed  the  existing  thirty-year
non-recourse financing for the property from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
at an interest rate of 8.10% per annum, due November 2002. The principal balance
outstanding as of September 30, 1999 was $23.0 million.

III.  New Corporate Headquarters
- ---------------------------------
In June 1999, Franklin Templeton acquired  approximately 32 acres of undeveloped
land ("Bay Meadows") located in San Mateo, California for a total purchase price
of $21.6 million. In connection with this purchase, Franklin Templeton deposited
with the seller and the City of San Mateo $22 million  representing  an estimate
of our share of certain off-site  improvements.  A final  reconciliation  of the
actual  amount due to the seller will be made after the  improvements  have been
completed.

Also in June 1999,  Franklin Templeton entered into a five-year  operating lease
agreement in connection with the construction of the new corporate  headquarters
to be located on a portion of Bay Meadows,  which Franklin  Templeton has ground
leased to a special  purpose  lessor  trust.  The  total  cost of the  corporate
headquarters  covered by this lease  agreement is limited to $170  million.  The
lease provides for a substantial residual value guarantee  (approximately 85% of
the total cost) by Franklin  Templeton which is due on termination of the lease.
The lease  includes  renewal  options  that can be  exercised  at the end of the
initial lease period,  and purchase  options that can be exercised  prior to the
expiration  of the lease  term.  Upon  termination  of the lease,  we can either
exercise  our  purchase  option,  or the  property can be sold to a third party.
Franklin Templeton's interest in the portion of the Bay Meadows property covered
by this lease  (including our interest as owner of the fee interest in the land)
is  collateral  for our  obligations  under the lease  agreement,  including our
obligations to pay the residual value  guaranty.  Franklin  Resources,  Inc. has
provided a guaranty of the  obligations of the subsidiary  that signed the lease
agreement,  in a manner substantially similar  to the guaranty  for our
revolving  line of credit agreements.



Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

We have  previously  reported  three  complaints  filed by the same law firm, in
January 1998, February 1998, and September 1998, in the U. S. District Court for
the Southern District of Florida,  against Templeton Asset Management,  Ltd., an
indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of FRI and  the  investment  manager  of the
closed-end  investment company;  Templeton Vietnam Opportunities Fund, Inc. (now
known as Templeton Vietnam and Southeast Asia Fund, Inc.); certain of the fund's
officers and directors; FRI; and Templeton Worldwide, Inc., a direct
wholly-owned FRI subsidiary.

The suits are captioned James C. Roumell, plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management,  Ltd., et al., (Civil
Action No.  98-6059),  Michael J. Wetta,  plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others  similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management,  Ltd., et al. (Civil
Action No. 98-6170); and Richard Waksman, plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others  similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management  Ltd., et al., (Civil
Action No. 98-7059).

All three complaints allege that the defendants  committed various violations of
the Investment Company Act of 1940, relating to the fund's decision to conduct a
tender  offer  commencing  at the end of 1997.  Wetta is also  seeking to assert
claims  under  the  Investment  Advisers  Act of  1940  and  Maryland  law.  The
complaints seek monetary  damages  apparently in excess of $40 million and other
relief. Wetta is seeking an order rescinding Templeton Asset Management,  Ltd.'s
advisory  contract with the fund and  restitution of all amounts paid under such
contract.  Although the plaintiffs have asserted claims against the directors of
the fund and certain of its  officers,  they have not asserted  claims  directly
against the fund,  which is named only as a "nominal  defendant" from which they
seek no  recovery.  Wetta has  included  two claims by which he is  seeking  the
above-mentioned relief in favor of the fund.

FRI and the other  defendants  moved to dismiss all three cases on various legal
grounds, including the fact that the lawsuits mischaracterize  the "fundamental
policies" of the fund and fail to acknowledge the basic investment  objective of
the fund to pursue long-term capital appreciation.

On December 6, 1999, the court ruled on the  defendants'  motions to dismiss the
complaints  in the Roumell and the Wetta cases.  The court  granted  defendants'
motions in part and denied them in part. Specifically,  the court dismissed both
complaints but gave the plaintiffs permission to amend the complaints in certain
particulars,  if the  plaintiffs  elect to do so. In making these  rulings,  the
court chiefly  addressed the issue of the  plaintiffs'  legal standing to assert
certain claims against certain defendants and did not uphold or reject the merit
of any  count in  either  complaint.  If the  plaintiffs  do decide to amend the
complaints and to pursue these lawsuits,  the defendants will have the option of
moving again to dismiss the complaints to challenge  their legal  sufficiency on
the merits of the claims.  Management  believes these lawsuits are without merit
and intends to defend the actions vigorously.

Other than as stated  above,  there have been no material  developments  in this
litigation during the past fiscal year.



Franklin  Templeton  is  involved  from time to time in  litigation  relating to
claims  arising in the normal  course of business.  Management is of the opinion
that the ultimate  resolution of such claims will not materially affect Franklin
Templeton's business or financial position.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.

                              PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Information About Franklin Templeton's Common Stock
- ---------------------------------------------------
FRI's  common  stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE") and the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. under the ticker symbol BEN and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker symbol FKR. On September  30, 1999,  the closing price of FRI's
common stock on the NYSE was $30.5625 per share. At December 3, 1999, there were
approximately 5,100 shareholders of record.  Based on nominee  solicitation,  we
believe that there are approximately 31,400 beneficial shareholders whose shares
are held in street name.

The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales  prices for FRI's common
stock from the NYSE  Composite  Tape. The first quarter fiscal 1998 sales prices
have been adjusted retroactively to reflect the 1998 two-for-one stock split.
See Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements.


                         1999 Fiscal Year              1998 Fiscal Year
Quarter               High              Low         High             Low
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October-December    45 5/8           26 1/2       51 7/8             39 3/4
January-March       38 3/8           27           57 1/4             38
April-June          45               27 1/8       57 7/8             47 9/16
July-September      43 7/16          29 3/4       54 7/8             25 3/4

Franklin  Templeton  declared  dividends  of $0.22 per share in fiscal  1999 and
$0.20 per share in fiscal 1998.  Franklin  Templeton  expects to continue paying
dividends on a quarterly  basis to common  stockholders  depending upon earnings
and other relevant factors.



Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

in millions, except assets under
management and per share amounts





Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

In this  section,  we  discuss  our  results  of  operations  and our  financial
condition.  We also make some statements relating to the future which are called
"forward-looking" statements. Although we do our best to make clear and accurate
forward-looking   statements,   the  actual   results  and  outcomes   could  be
significantly  different from those that we discuss in this  document.  For this
reason, you should not rely too heavily on these forward-looking  statements. We
encourage  you to look at the "Risk  Factors"  section  below,  where we discuss
these statements in more detail.

GENERAL

The majority of our operating  revenues,  operating  expenses and net income are
derived from providing investment advisory and related services to retail mutual
funds,  institutional and private accounts, and other investment products.  This
is our primary  business  activity and operating  segment.  The mutual funds and
other  products that we advise,  collectively  called our  sponsored  investment
products, are sold to the public via three brand names:

- - Franklin
- - Templeton
- - Mutual Series

Our  sponsored  investment  products  include  a broad  range  of  domestic  and
global/international equity, fixed-income and money market mutual funds, as well
as other  investment  products that meet a wide variety of  investment  needs of
individuals and institutions.

The level of our  revenues  is  largely  dependent  upon the level and  relative
composition of assets under  management.  To a lesser  degree,  our revenues are
also  dependent  on the level of mutual fund sales and the number of mutual fund
shareholder  accounts.  The fees charged for our services are based on contracts
between ourselves and our sponsored  investment  products or our clients.  These
arrangements could change in the future.

Our secondary  business activity and operating segment is  banking/finance.  Our
banking/finance  group  offers  consumer  lending and  selected  retail  banking
services to individuals.


Franklin  Templeton operates primarily in the United States, but we also provide
services and earn revenues in Canada, the Bahamas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. Most
of these  revenues and associated  expenses,  however,  are  denominated in U.S.
dollars.  Therefore,  our  exposure  to  foreign  currency  fluctuations  in our
revenues  and  expenses is not  significant.  This  situation  may change in the
future as our business grows outside the United States.

At  September  30,  1999,  we  employed  approximately  6,700  people in over 25
countries, serving customers on six different continents.

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT

in billions




Our assets under  management at the end of our fiscal year were $218.1  billion,
5% higher than they were at the end of last year.  However,  the monthly average
value of these  assets  during  1999 was $219.8  billion as  compared  to $226.9
billion in 1998,  a 3% drop.  The change in the  monthly  average  assets  under
management is more  indicative of  investment  management  fee revenues than the
increase in year-end assets.

During 1999,  our sponsored  investment  products  experienced  overall net cash
outflows in contrast to the net cash inflows  experienced  in 1998 and 1997.  In
1999,  this  trend was  offset to some  extent by market  appreciation  of these
assets. In 1998,  market  depreciation,  principally in the fourth quarter,  was
offset by net cash inflows.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The table below  presents the  highlights of our  operations  for the last three
years.

in millions except per share amounts



(1) EBITDA margin is earnings before interest, taxes on income, depreciation and
the amortization of intangibles divided by total revenues.

Net income and diluted earnings per share for 1999 decreased by 15%, principally
as a result of decreased investment  management fee revenues and a restructuring
charge  recognized in 1999.  Net income and diluted  earnings per share for 1998
increased  by 15% and 16%,  respectively,  principally  as a result of increased
investment management fee revenues.

The table below presents the percentage change in each category between 1998 and
1999 and between 1997 and 1998.


OPERATING REVENUES



SUMMARY

In 1999,  domestic and  international  equity markets were volatile.  Investment
management fees and underwriting and distribution fees fell as the average value
of our assets and sales volumes decreased from 1998 levels,  particularly in our
sponsored  equity funds. In 1998, all categories of revenues  increased from the
previous year's levels as a result of increases in the average values of assets,
sales and shareholder accounts.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES

Investment  management  fees,  the largest  component of our operating  revenues
include both investment  advisory and fund  administration  fees. These fees are
generally  calculated under fixed-fee  arrangements as a percentage of the value
of assets  under  management.  Annual  rates vary and  generally  decline as the
average net assets of the portfolios  exceed certain threshold levels. In return
for these fees,  we provide  investment  advisory and  administrative  services.
There have been no significant changes in these fee structures for the funds and
accounts that we manage in the years under review.


Investment  management  fees  decreased 5% in fiscal 1999,  primarily  due to 3%
lower  average  assets  under  management.  In 1999,  revenues  fell faster than
average assets due to a 2% shift in our asset mix towards lower-fee fixed-income
products.  Consistent with this trend, the effective  investment  management fee
rate  (investment  management  fees divided by average assets under  management)
decreased  in 1999 to 0.61%  compared  to 0.62% in 1998.  Future  changes in the
composition  of  assets  under  management  will  likely  affect  our  effective
investment  management  fee rate.  In fiscal  1998,  an 18%  increase in average
assets under management led to a 17% increase in investment management fees.

UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION FEES

Underwriting  commissions  are earned from the sale of certain classes of mutual
funds that have a front-end sales commission.  Distribution fees are paid by our
sponsored  mutual  funds in  return  for sales and  marketing  efforts  on their
behalf.  Distribution  fees include 12b-1 plan fees which are subject to maximum
pay-out  levels,  based  upon a  percentage  of  the  assets  in  each  fund.  A
significant  portion of underwriting  commissions and distribution fees are paid
to the  brokers  and other  intermediaries  who sell  funds to the public on our
behalf. See the description of underwriting and distribution expenses below.

Underwriting  and  distribution   fees  decreased  27%  in  1999.   Underwriting
commissions  decreased as a result of a 26% drop in gross mutual fund sales from
1998 levels.  Distribution fees also decreased as a result of the 3% decrease in
average assets under management. Underwriting and distribution fees increased in
1998 due to the increased value of average assets under management and increased
mutual fund sales in 1998 over 1997 levels.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICING FEES

Shareholder  servicing fees are generally fixed charges per shareholder  account
that vary with the particular type of fund and the service being rendered.  Fees
are received for each shareholder account as compensation for providing transfer
agency  services  which  include  providing  customer  statements,   transaction
processing,  customer  service and tax  reporting.  In  accordance  with current
agreements  with the funds,  closed  accounts  in a given  calendar  year remain
billable through the second quarter of the following  calendar year at a reduced
rate.

In 1999, shareholder servicing fees increased 15% over 1998 as a result of a 2.0
million (24%) increase in average billable  shareholder  accounts, a substantial
portion  of which were  closed  accounts,  and an  increase  in the per  account
charge.  Shareholder servicing fees increased 29% in 1998 compared to 1997. This
increase  was  primarily  the  result of an  increase  in  billable  shareholder
accounts.


OTHER, NET

Other,  net consists  primarily of revenues from the  banking/finance  operating
segment:

- - Operating  revenues,  consisting  primarily of interest and  servicing  income
- - Interest expense, and
- - Provision for loan losses

Other,  net decreased 13% in 1999  primarily due to an increase in the provision
for loan  losses.  Charge-offs  as a  percentage  of average  loans  outstanding
increased in 1999 over 1998.  Also,  loan  balances  increased  $21.1 million at
September 30, 1999, compared to September 30, 1998. In addition,  during 1998, a
portion of the reserves  related to auto loans was released  because of improved
loss experience over 1997.

We have  considered  the potential  impact of the effect on the  banking/finance
segment of a 100 basis point (1%)  movement in market  interest  rates and we do
not expect it would have a material impact on our operating  revenues or results
of operations.

OPERATING EXPENSES



Underwriting and distribution  includes sales  commissions and distribution fees
paid to brokers and other third parties for selling and  distributing  our funds
to the public.  During 1999,  underwriting and distribution  expenses  decreased
26%, consistent with the trend in underwriting and distribution revenues. During
1998,  underwriting and distribution expenses increased 18%, consistent with the
trend in revenues.

Compensation  and  benefits  decreased  7% in 1999,  primarily  due to decreased
temporary labor costs and employee overtime.  We also have reduced the number of
full-time employees  throughout 1999. In January 1999, we announced that we were
eliminating  560 positions,  primarily as a result of  efficiencies  gained from
conversion to one domestic  transfer agency system.  Through employee  attrition
and turnover the number of employees  decreased a further 1,400 by September 30,
1999 from the previous year. In 1998,  compensation  and benefits  increased 24%
over the prior year, reflecting an increase in the number of full-time employees
and in  temporary  labor  costs.  In order to be able to hire and retain our key
employees in the current labor market,  we are committed to keeping our salaries
and benefit packages competitive,  which may mean that the level of compensation
and benefits will increase more quickly than inflation.

Information  systems,  technology and occupancy  costs increased 17% in 1999 and
34% in  1998.  During  the past  three  years,  we have  started  major  systems
implementations  - including the  conversion to one transfer  agency from three,
our Year 2000 project and euro  preparations,  and we have upgraded our network,
desktop and Internet environments.  We are also developing e-business strategies
to meet the needs of our distribution  network and our mutual fund shareholders.
We expect that such major systems  undertakings  will continue to have an impact
on our operating results through fiscal 2000 and beyond.

Advertising  and promotion  expenses  decreased 16% in 1999 and increased 30% in
1998. In 1999, we reduced  expenditures  on media  advertising and reduced other
promotional activities in line with our general cost-saving efforts.

Amortization  of deferred sales  commissions  decreased 9% in 1999 and increased
77% in 1998.  Certain fund classes are sold without a front-end  sales charge to
shareholders,  while,  at the same time, we pay a commission to selling  brokers
and others.  We expect to recover  the  payments in  distribution  revenues  and
contingent deferred sales charges over periods of up to a maximum of eight years
following the sale. Accordingly, the payments are capitalized and amortized over
periods not exceeding  eight years. In the second quarter of 1999, our sponsored
Canadian funds arranged for financing of these sales commissions directly with a
third party. The amortization of deferred sales decreased in 1999 as a result of
decreased sales of these products and as a result of the  third-party  financing
of Canadian  sales.  In 1998,  these amounts  increased as a result of increased
sales.

During 1999, we  recognized  pretax  restructuring  charges of $58.4 million (or
$0.17 per  diluted  share  after  tax).  These  charges  were  related to a plan
initiated by management in the first quarter of fiscal 1999.  See Note 14 to the
financial  statements.  We do not expect to incur any  additional  charges  with
respect to the plan during fiscal 2000.

Of the $58.4 million total restructuring charge,  approximately 85% was utilized
during 1999. The anticipated lost revenues associated with discontinued products
are not expected to have a material impact on ongoing results of operations.

At the completion of these restructuring  efforts, our annual operating expenses
are expected to decrease  approximately  $150 million from peak levels in fiscal
1998. These expectations may be affected by changes in the business  environment
in future  years,  but in the nine months since we announced  the  restructuring
plan, we have realized over $90 million reduction in controllable  expenses from
peak periods in 1998. A substantial  portion of the savings came from  decreased
employee,  occupancy and associated  other costs as a result of the reduction in
the  workforce  discussed  above.  For the year ended  September  30, 1999,  the
savings  recognized from the  restructuring  plan have been partially  offset by
increased  information  system and technology  costs as we continue to invest in
our business.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Investment and other income is made up primarily of:

- - dividends  from  investments  in our sponsored  mutual  funds,  and
- - interest income from investments in bonds and government securities.

It also  includes  realized  gains  and  losses  from  the  sale  of  investment
securities,  realized foreign exchange gains and losses and other  miscellaneous
income. See Note 9 to the financial statements.

In 1999,  higher interest income was offset by lower dividend income and reduced
realized gains from the sale of investments.  Investment income increased 14% in
1998 primarily as the result of the investment of increased operating cash flows
in interest-earning accounts and securities.

Interest expense decreased 7% in 1999 due to a reduction in debt used to finance
our investment  management operating segment.  During 1999, average debt used to
finance  consumer auto loans also decreased  resulting in lower interest expense
for the banking/finance group. (See Other, net revenues above). Interest expense
decreased 11% in 1998,  primarily due to increased  operating  cash flows and to
the   capitalization   of  interest   related  to  borrowings  used  to  finance
construction of a number of new office buildings.


TAXES ON INCOME

Our effective income tax rate for fiscal 1999 remained  relatively  stable on an
annual  basis at 26%,  the same  rate as in 1998.  The  effective  tax rate will
continue to be reflective of the relative contributions of foreign earnings that
are subject to reduced tax rates and that are not currently included in U.S.
taxable income.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 30, 1999, we had $819.2  million in cash and cash  equivalents,  as
compared to $556.0 million at September 30, 1998.  Liquid assets,  which consist
of  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  investments  available-for-sale  and  current
receivables  increased to $1,490.1  million at September  30, 1999 from $1,278.6
million at September  30,  1998.  At September  30, 1999,  approximately  $662.4
million was available to Franklin  Templeton under unused  commercial  paper and
medium-term  note programs.  Revolving  credit  facilities at September 30, 1999
aggregated $525 million of which $225 million was under a 364-day facility.  The
remaining $300 million facility will expire in May 2003.

Cash provided by operating  activities decreased to $584.5 million in 1999, from
$693.7  million in 1998.  This decline was due mainly to lower net income in the
current fiscal year.  During the year ended September 30, 1999, we generated net
cash of $27.3 million from investing activities.  Net liquidation of investments
generated  $177.3 million and we purchased  $131.1 million fixed assets,  net of
disposals and invested $18.9 million,  net in our banking/finance  segment.  The
$18.9  million  invested  was  made  up of  $132.0  million  in  net  new  loans
originated,  partially  offset  by  $106.4  million  received  in the  May  1999
securitization  of auto  loans and $6.7  million  received  from the net sale of
investments.  Net cash used in financing  activities  during the year was $348.6
million,  compared to $101.9  million in 1998. We repaid $201.8 million of debt,
net of new  borrowings,  purchased  2.1 million  shares of our common  stock for
$64.3  million,  paid $54.3 million in dividends to  stockholders,  repaid $29.6
million of deposits of the banking/finance  group and received $1.5 million from
the exercise of stock options.

Outstanding  debt declined to $403.2 million at September 30, 1999,  compared to
$612.4 million at September 30, 1998. Debt primarily consisted of fixed-interest
medium-term  notes and commercial paper that carried interest at variable rates.
As  described  in Note 8 to the  financial  statements,  we  participate  in the
financial  derivatives  markets  solely  to  manage  our  exposure  to  variable
interest-rate  fluctuations  on a  portion  of  commercial  paper.  Our  overall
weighted average  interest rate on outstanding  commercial paper and medium-term
notes was 6.2% at both  September 30, 1999 and  September 30, 1998.  Through our
interest-rate  swap agreements and medium-term  note program,  we have fixed the
rates of interest we pay on 81% of our outstanding debt.


During  September  1999,  we entered into a series of  agreements to finance the
construction  of a new  corporate  headquarters  on a 32-acre site in San Mateo,
California.  An owner-lessor  trust has been set up to finance the  construction
and lease the completed facility to Franklin  Templeton.  The agreements are not
expected to impact our cash flows or financial  condition  materially during the
initial five-year lease period.

During 1999,  Franklin  Templeton  also arranged for  third-party,  non-recourse
financing  of sales  commissions  on its B shares.  At September  30, 1999,  the
amounts financed by us under this arrangement are not material.

Management  expects that the principal  future needs for cash will be to advance
sales commissions,  fund increased property and equipment acquisitions including
information systems and technology,  pay stockholder dividends and service debt.
Management  believes that  existing  liquid  assets,  together with the expected
continuing  cash flow from  operations,  our  borrowing  capacity  under current
credit  facilities and our ability to issue stock will be sufficient to meet our
present  and  reasonably  foreseeable  future cash  needs.  The  banking/finance
segment's  cash needs are  expected to be met from  existing  cash flows or from
additional securitizations of loans receivable.

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE

BACKGROUND.

Before work commenced on what is commonly  known as the Year 2000 problem,  many
of the world's computer systems  recorded years in a two-digit  format.  Without
remediation,  such  computer  systems  might  have  been  unable  to  recognize,
interpret  or use  dates  in and  beyond  the year  1999  correctly.  Because  a
significant number of key transactions for most businesses are affected by dates
or are date-related,  the inability to use such date information correctly could
lead to business disruptions both in the United States and internationally.  The
short time frames within which computer systems must receive and process data to
complete securities transactions increases the potential impact of the Year 2000
problem for the financial services industry.

Year  2000  Readiness.   All  of  our  mission-critical  systems  and  important
non-mission critical systems have now been "certified" as Year 2000 compliant as
described  below and are  operating  in  production.  We will focus our  efforts
through year-end on updating verification of third-party  readiness,  reviewing,
refining  and  testing  our  contingency  plans,   including  detailed  year-end
cross-over plans and additional integrated testing of certain systems.

Certification and Testing Process. Our Year 2000 certification  process included
assessment,  remediation and a number of prescribed tests either  established by
Franklin Templeton and/or the vendor of the system.  Although Franklin Templeton
believes  that its systems  are ready and will  function  correctly  in the Year
2000, no testing  procedures  can  absolutely  guarantee that a system which has
been "certified" as Year 2000 compliant will be free of difficulties  associated
with the Year 2000.

Industry Testing.  During 1999, Franklin Templeton successfully  participated in
several industry-wide tests: the Securities Industry  Association's "Street Wide
Testing" held over five weekends in March and April;  testing of major real-time
market  data  services  in May;  and six days of testing  interfaces  with major
broker/dealers  in July.  These tests included  simulated  Year 2000  securities
transactions  and market  data feeds,  and  involved  the major  North  American
securities exchanges,  securities clearing organizations,  financial information
services,  market data services, major banks, brokerages and investment advisory
and investment management companies in the United States.

Third Parties and Year 2000. Franklin Templeton's operating segments are heavily
dependent upon a complex  worldwide network of information  technology  systems,
some of which are owned and managed by third parties.  Some of these third-party
systems are Franklin  Templeton's  mission-critical  systems.  These third-party
systems  include  data  feeds,   trading  systems,   securities  transfer  agent
operations and stock market links.  There were a number of  third-party  systems
that we could not test  ourselves  and for these  systems we relied  upon vendor
representations, the results of point-to-point testing, or test scripts supplied
by the  vendor.  Franklin  Templeton  has  contacted  all of its major  external
suppliers  of goods and  services  to assess  their  compliance  efforts and our
exposure in the event that  third-party  compliance  efforts  fail. In addition,
certain of these  third  parties  assisted  us with  modifying  and  testing our
systems,  and participated in "Street Wide Testing" with Franklin  Templeton and
with one another. To date, no major third-party supplier has informed us that it
would not be Year 2000 compliant or Year 2000 ready by the millennium  date, nor
has our testing  with third  parties  revealed  any  significant  non-compliance
issues.  Communication  with third  parties will continue as we proceed with our
Year 2000 project, and into the Year 2000 to monitor system functions.  However,
no testing or  inquiries  with  respect to  third-party  systems can  absolutely
guaranty that problems related to the Year 2000 will not occur.

Contingency  Planning.  Extensive  preparation  efforts cannot guarantee a total
absence of Year 2000 problems.  Therefore, we continue to develop, exercise, and
integrate comprehensive worldwide contingency plans. All of Franklin Templeton's
worldwide  contingency  plans  have been  formulated  and  tested;  we expect to
refine,  change and update our  contingency  plans through the rollover date. In
addition  to  technical  systems  matters,   the  contingency  planning  process
considered  operational  issues  such  as an  increased  volume  of  shareholder
requests,  cash flow matters related to purchase or redemption  volumes,  market
adjustments and other areas of potential disruptions.


As part of the effort to create a smooth  transition to the Year 2000,  Franklin
Templeton formed a worldwide Year 2000 cross-over team with representatives from
each major business  function.  This team will staff command  centers around the
world from December 31 through the end of the first week of January 2000. During
the cross-over weekend, personnel will be at key command centers 24 hours a day,
beginning with the first rollovers to the Year 2000 in Australia,  Hong Kong and
Singapore  until the final  rollover at  Franklin  Templeton's  headquarters  in
California.

Due to the  complexity  and  magnitude of our business  processes  there are, in
certain  cases,  limited  or no  alternatives  to some  of our  mission-critical
systems or public  utilities.  It is not possible to predict  which  internal or
external systems or utilities may be affected worldwide,  or the exact nature of
all problems that might occur.  While  redundant  systems and multi-day  back-up
power sources are in place at Franklin  Templeton's main data centers to address
communication or power  interruptions,  if telephone systems or public utilities
fail in multiple locations or if mission-critical  systems of Franklin Templeton
or third  parties  fail,  there  could be a  material  adverse  impact  upon our
business, financial condition and results of operations. This is especially true
if such outages or failures were to extend for a period of many days.

Cost Estimates. The total estimated costs through March 2000 associated with the
Year 2000  project are  expected  to be between  $50  million  and $60  million,
including an unallocated  amount for unanticipated  costs. These estimated costs
are mainly internal and third-party  labor costs which are expensed as incurred.
The  total  amount  expended  on the  project  through  September  30,  1999 was
approximately $42.5 million. Franklin Templeton's estimate of the total costs to
complete the Year 2000 project will continue to be refined in future periods.

Liquidity.  Franklin  Templeton  believes that its liquid assets,  together with
existing  credit  facilities,  will be sufficient  to meet any  corporate  needs
related to Year 2000 problems.  However,  in the event of a worldwide  liquidity
crisis or broad-based  market panic,  no financial  organization  can absolutely
assure  that  it or its  managed  portfolios  would  not be  impacted.  Franklin
Templeton also has arranged a $750 million short-term special line of credit for
certain  of its  domestic  sponsored  retail  mutual  funds to assist in meeting
liquidity requirements that could arise out of Year 2000 concerns.

Non-IT Systems.  All of our non-information  technology  ("non-IT") systems have
been certified as being Year 2000 ready,  either by internal  verification or by
third-party  representations,  for Franklin  Templeton's domestic properties and
foreign  properties  over 5,500  square  feet.  Like other  companies,  Franklin
Templeton is dependent  upon certain  non-IT  systems such as  third-party  long
distance  telephone and data lines, and public utility  electrical  power. We do
not  expect  to  experience  any  material  effects  related  to the  Year  2000
compliance  of  non-IT  systems   unless  there  are   widespread   national  or
international  telephone  and data line,  or general  public  utility  problems,
beyond our control.

Specific Risks Associated with the Year 2000.  Franklin  Templeton's  ability to
manage Year 2000  issues is subject to  uncertainties  beyond our  control  that
could cause actual  results to differ  materially  from what has been  discussed
above.  Franklin  Templeton could become subject to legal claims in the event of
any Year 2000 problem in our business operations. In addition, we are subject to
regulation by various domestic and international  authorities which could impose
sanctions  or fines or cause us to cease  certain  operations  in the  event our
systems  are not  Year  2000  compliant.  If there is a  general  disruption  in
securities or capital markets,  or if investors  withdraw funds because they are
concerned about Year 2000 issues, this could create global liquidity issues that
could  have a  material  adverse  effect  upon  Franklin  Templeton's  business,
financial condition and results of operations.  These types of disruptions could
occur regardless of the existence or severity of Year 2000 problems, as a result
of  overreaction or market panic in response to even minor Year 2000 problems or
false reports of Year 2000 problems.

If there are Year 2000  system  interruptions  or failures  of  important  third
parties, such as securities transfer agents, stock exchanges,  data providers or
other  organizations such as those mentioned above under "Third Parties and Year
2000,"  this could have a material  adverse  effect on our  business,  financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.  Although  certain  third  parties  may
represent that their systems are Year 2000 ready, there can be no assurance that
their  systems  are in fact Year  2000  compliant  or that  they  have  provided
complete and accurate information to Franklin Templeton.

Factors  that could  influence  the impact of the Year 2000 problem also include
the success of Franklin  Templeton in identifying  systems and programs that are
affected.  Other factors include the nature and amount of testing,  remediation,
programming,  installation  and systems  work  required to upgrade or to replace
each of the affected programs or systems;  the rate,  magnitude and availability
of related labor and  consulting  costs;  our success in correcting our internal
systems and the success of Franklin  Templeton's external partners and suppliers
in addressing their respective Year 2000 problems.

RISK FACTORS

"FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS." When used in this Annual Report, words or phrases
about  the  future  such  as  "expected  to,"  "will  continue,"  "anticipates,"
"estimates," or similar expressions are "forward-looking  statements" as defined
in the Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Statements about key
employee compensation; financing construction of our new corporate headquarters;
our future cash needs and the expected sources of future cash inflows; estimates
about our Year 2000 plan, including cost projections,  statements about possible
effects of the Year 2000 problem and contingency plans are also "forward-looking
statements."  These  types of  statements  are  subject  to  certain  risks  and
uncertainties,  such as the factors described in "Specific Risks Associated with
the Year  2000"  above and the risk  factors  outlined  below.  These  risks and
uncertainties  could  cause our  current  expectations  and  predictions  in the
forward-looking statements to be wrong.  Forward-looking statements are our best
prediction  at the time  that they are made,  and you  should  not rely on them.
Rather, you should read the  forward-looking  statements in conjunction with the
risk disclosures in this Annual Report. If a circumstance occurs that causes any
of our forward-looking statements to be inaccurate,  Franklin Templeton does not
have an obligation  to publicly  release the change to our  expectations,  or to
make any revision to the forward-looking statements.

FRANKLIN  TEMPLETON FACES STRONG  COMPETITION FROM NUMEROUS AND SOMETIMES LARGER
COMPANIES.  We compete with  numerous  stock  brokerage and  investment  banking
firms, insurance companies, banks, online and Internet investment sites, savings
and loan  associations  and other financial  institutions.  These companies also
offer financial  services and other  investment  alternatives.  In recent years,
there has been a trend of consolidation  in the mutual fund industry,  resulting
in  stronger   competitors  with  greater  financial   resources  than  Franklin
Templeton.  There  has  also  been a  trend  toward  online  Internet  financial
services.  We are currently expanding our Internet e-business,  but there can be
no  assurance  that  our  e-business   will  compete   effectively   with  other
alternatives available to investors.  To the extent that existing customers stop
investing  with us and instead  invest  with our  competitors,  or if  potential
customers  decide to invest with other companies  instead,  this could cause our
market share, revenues and net income to decline.

COMPETING  SECURITIES  DEALERS  AND BANKS  COULD  RESTRICT  SALES OF OUR  FUNDS.
Although  we  rely  on  securities  dealers  to sell  and  distribute  Franklin,
Templeton and Mutual Series fund shares,  many of those securities  dealers also
have mutual funds under their own names that compete directly with our products.
The banking  industry also  continues to expand its  sponsorship  of proprietary
funds.  These firms or banks could  decide to limit or restrict  the sale of our
fund  shares,  which  could  lower our future  sales and cause our  revenues  to
decline.

WE CURRENTLY RELY UPON OUR DISTRIBUTION  CHANNELS.  Franklin  Templeton  derives
nearly all of its income  from sales made by  broker/dealers  and other  similar
investment  advisors,  and we are  heavily  dependent  upon  these  distribution
channels.  However,  there is increasing competition to get into these channels,
which  has  caused  our  distribution  costs to rise  and  could  cause  further
increases in the future.  Higher  distribution  costs lower our net revenues and
earnings. If one of these major financial advisors had to cease operations, even
for a few days, due to Year 2000 problems or for other reasons,  it could have a
significant  adverse  impact on our revenues and earnings.  Similarly,  Franklin
Templeton  relies upon these  business  relationships  and there is no guarantee
that  good  relations  can be  maintained.  If we  cannot  effectively  compete,
distribute and sell our products, this would have a negative effect on our level
of assets under management,  related revenues and overall business and financial
condition.

NEW SHARE CLASSES BRING IN LOWER  REVENUES AND HAVE REDUCED  OPERATING  MARGINS.
Franklin  Templeton  receives  no or  reduced  sales  charges  at the time of an
initial  investment  in B shares  and C shares  but still  must pay the  related
dealer  commission.  In  addition,  due  to  industry  competition,  the  dealer
commissions that we pay on these types of shares are now higher than in the past
and may increase in the future. This could potentially have a negative effect on
our liquidity and operating margins.

IF OUR ASSET MIX  SHIFTS  TO  PREDOMINANTLY  FIXED-INCOME,  OUR  REVENUES  WOULD
DECLINE. We derive higher fee revenues and income from the equity assets that we
manage. A shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products has caused in the
past, and would cause in the future, a decline in our income and revenue.

WE HAVE BECOME SUBJECT TO AN INCREASED RISK OF ASSET  VOLATILITY FROM CHANGES IN
THE GLOBAL EQUITY MARKETS.  As Franklin  Templeton's asset mix has shifted since
1992 from  predominantly  fixed-income  to a majority of equity assets,  we have
become subject to an increased risk of asset  volatility  from changes in global
equity  markets.  Declines in these  markets have caused in the past,  and would
cause in the future, a decline in our income and revenue.

GLOBAL ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS,  INTEREST RATES,  INFLATION RATES AND OTHER FACTORS
WHICH ARE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT AFFECT THE MIX, MARKET VALUES,  AND LEVELS OF OUR
ASSETS UNDER  MANAGEMENT.  Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield curve
will affect the value of  fixed-income  assets under  management  as well as the
flow of  monies  to and from  fixed-income  funds.  In turn,  this  affects  our
revenues from those funds.  In addition,  changes in the equity  marketplace may
significantly affect the level of our assets under management. The factors above
often  operate  inversely  on equity  funds and  fixed-income  funds,  making it
difficult to predict the net effect of any particular set of conditions.


GENERAL  ECONOMIC  AND  SECURITIES  MARKETS  FLUCTUATIONS  AFFECT OUR  BUSINESS.
Adverse   general   securities   market   conditions,   currency   fluctuations,
governmental regulations and recessionary global economic conditions could lower
Franklin  Templeton's  mutual  fund  share  sales and other  financial  services
products sales.

AN  INABILITY TO MEET CASH NEEDS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE  EFFECT ON OUR  FINANCIAL
CONDITION  AND  BUSINESS  OPERATIONS.   Franklin  Templeton's  ability  to  meet
anticipated  cash needs  depends upon  factors  including  our asset value,  our
creditworthiness  as  perceived  by lenders  and the market  value of our stock.
Similarly,  our ability to securitize  future portfolios of auto loan and credit
card  receivables  would also be affected by the  market's  perception  of those
portfolios,  finance rates offered by  competitors,  and the general  market for
private debt.

WE FACE INCREASED  COMPETITION IN HIRING AND RETAINING QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES.  Our
continued  success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain  qualified
personnel. The competition from other companies to hire these kinds of employees
has increased,  particularly in certain geographic  locations where the majority
of our  workforce  is  employed.  We may be  forced  to offer  compensation  and
benefits to these employees at a level that exceeds inflation. With historically
low  unemployment  in the  United  States,  qualified  personnel  are now moving
between  firms and  starting  their own  companies  with greater  frequency.  If
Franklin  Templeton  is not able to attract  and  retain  these  employees,  our
overall business condition and revenues could suffer.

OUR EMERGING  MARKET  PORTFOLIOS  AND RELATED  REVENUES ARE SUBJECT TO INCREASED
RISKS.  These portfolios and our revenues derived from managing these portfolios
are  subject  to  significant  risks  of  loss  from  political  and  diplomatic
developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental
polices,  expropriation,  nationalization,  asset  confiscation  and  changes in
legislation related to foreign ownership. Foreign trading markets,  particularly
in some emerging market countries are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated
and significantly more volatile.

OUR  SECURITIZED   CONSUMER  RECEIVABLES  BUSINESS  IS  SUBJECT  TO  MARKETPLACE
FLUCTUATION AND COMPETES WITH BUSINESSES WITH  SIGNIFICANTLY  LARGER PORTFOLIOS.
Auto loan and credit card portfolio  losses can be influenced  significantly  by
trends in the economy and credit  markets  which  reduce  borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.

DIVERSE AND STRONG  COMPETITION  LIMITS THE INTEREST RATES THAT WE CAN CHARGE ON
CONSUMER LOANS.  We compete with many types of institutions  for consumer loans,
including the finance  subsidiaries of large automobile  manufacturers.  Some of
these competitors can provide loans at significantly below market interest rates
in connection with automobile sales. We rely on our  relationships  with various
automobile dealers and there is no guarantee that we can maintain  relationships
with these dealers.

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In the normal course of business,  the financial  position of Franklin Templeton
is  subjected  to a variety of risks,  including  market  risk  associated  with
interest rate  movements.  Franklin  Templeton is exposed to changes in interest
rates  primarily  in its  debt  transactions.  Through  its  interest-rate  swap
agreements and its medium-term note program  Franklin  Templeton has effectively
fixed the rate of interest it pays on 81% of its debt  outstanding  at September
30, 1999. As a result,  Franklin  Templeton  does not believe that the effect of
reasonably possible near-term changes in interest rates on Franklin  Templeton's
financial position, results of operations or cash flow would be material.

We have  considered  the potential  impact of the effect on the  banking/finance
segment of a 100 basis point (1%)  movement in market  interest  rates and we do
not expect it would have a material impact on our operating  revenues or results
of operations.


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index of  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the years ended  September 30,
1999, 1998, and 1997.

CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:
                                                                          Page

Consolidated Statements of Income
   for the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998, and 1997

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   as of September 30, 1999 and 1998

Consolidated  Statements of Stockholders'  Equity and Comprehensive  Income
   as of and for the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
   for the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Accountants


All schedules have been omitted as the  information is provided in the financial
statements  or in related  notes  thereto or is not  required to be filed as the
information is not applicable.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME


in thousands
except per share data



The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

in thousands



The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

in thousands



The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

in thousands




The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

in thousands




The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Franklin   Resources,   Inc.  and  its  consolidated   subsidiaries   ("Franklin
Templeton")  derive  substantially  all of their  revenues  and net income  from
providing  investment  management,  administration,   distribution  and  related
services to the Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series funds,  institutional and
private  accounts  and other  investment  products  (our  "sponsored  investment
products").  We operate  primarily in the United States but also in Canada,  the
Bahamas,  Europe and Asia/Pacific  under various rules and regulations set forth
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, individual state agencies and foreign
governments.  Services to our sponsored  investment  products are provided under
contracts that set forth the fees to be charged for these services. The majority
of these  contracts  are subject to periodic  review and approval by each fund's
Board of  Directors/Trustees  and  shareholders.  Currently,  no fund's revenues
represent more than 10% of total revenues. Our revenues are largely dependent on
the total  value and  composition  of assets  under  management,  which  include
domestic  and  global/international  equity  and debt  portfolios.  Accordingly,
fluctuations  in  financial  markets  and in the  composition  of  assets  under
management impact our revenues and operating results.

BASIS OF  PRESENTATION.  The consolidated  financial  statements are prepared in
accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  that require us to
estimate  certain  amounts.  Actual  amounts  may differ  from these  estimates.
Certain  1997 and  1998  amounts  have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to 1999
presentation.

The  consolidated   financial   statements  include  the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned  subsidiaries.  All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated  except the intercompany  payable
from the banking/finance group to the parent to fund auto and credit card loans.
Operating revenues of the  banking/finance  group are included in Other, net and
are presented net of related interest expense and the provision for loan losses.
Accordingly, reported interest expense excludes interest expense attributable to
the banking/finance group.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, debt
instruments  with  original  maturities of three months or less and other highly
liquid investments,  including money market funds, which are readily convertible
into cash.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE are carried at fair value. Fair values
for  investments  in our  sponsored  investment  products  are based on the last
reported net asset  value.  Fair values for other  investments  are based on the
last reported price on the exchange on which they are traded. Realized gains and
losses  are  included  in  investment   income   currently   based  on  specific
identification.  Unrealized  gains and losses are recorded net of tax as part of
Accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.

DERIVATIVES.  Franklin  Templeton  does not hold or issue  derivative  financial
instruments for trading purposes. We enter into interest-rate swap agreements to
reduce  variable  interest-rate  exposure with respect to our commercial  paper.
Under these  contracts  Franklin  Templeton  agrees to  exchange,  at  specified
intervals,   the  difference  between  fixed-  and   variable-interest   amounts
calculated  by  reference  to an  agreed-upon  notional  principal  amount.  The
interest-rate   differential   between  the  fixed  pay-rate  and  the  variable
receive-rate is reflected as an adjustment to interest  expense over the life of
the swaps.  Interest-rate  swaps are carried at an estimate of their termination
costs.

Unrealized  gains and losses on these  instruments  are recorded net of tax as a
part of Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income.  These  unrealized  gains and
losses would be recognized only on early termination of the agreements.  We have
not,  and do not intend to,  terminate  these  agreements  prior to their normal
expiration.

LOANS  RECEIVABLE.  Interest on auto  installment  loans is accrued  principally
using the rule of 78s method.  If interest had been recorded  using the interest
method,  revenues  would  not be  materially  different  from  those  presented.
Interest  on all other loans is accrued  using the simple  interest  method.  An
allowance for loan losses is established monthly based on historical experience,
including  delinquency  and loss trends.  Securitized  loans and the  associated
allowance for loan losses are excluded from the balance sheet and the associated
interest revenues and provision for loan losses are excluded from our results of
operations. A loan is charged to the allowance for loan losses when it is deemed
to be uncollectible,  taking into consideration the value of the collateral, the
financial  condition  of the  borrower and other  factors.  Recoveries  on loans
previously  charged off as uncollectible  are credited to the allowance for loan
losses.


DEFERRED  SALES  COMMISSIONS.  Sales  commissions  paid  to  brokers  and  other
investment  advisors  in  connection  with the sale of  shares  of the  Franklin
Templeton mutual funds sold without a front-end sales charge are capitalized and
amortized  over  periods  not  exceeding  eight  years - the periods in which we
estimate that they will be recovered  from  distribution  plan payments and from
contingent deferred sales charges.

PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT  are  recorded  at  cost  and  are  depreciated  on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the  straight-line  basis over their estimated  useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS,  consisting principally of the estimated value of mutual fund
management  contracts and goodwill  resulting from our acquisition of the assets
of Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Heine Securities Corporation, are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over various lives ranging from five to
40 years. We have evaluated the potential impairment of our intangible assets on
the basis of the  expected  future  undiscounted  operating  cash flows  without
interest  charges to be derived  from these  assets in relation to the  carrying
values and  determined  that there is no impairment.  At some future period,  if
such  evaluations  indicate  that the carrying  value of these assets  cannot be
recovered using this test, the assets will be adjusted to their fair values.

RECOGNITION OF REVENUES. Investment management fees, shareholder servicing fees,
investment   income  and  distribution   fees  are  all  recognized  as  earned.
Underwriting  commissions  related  to the  sale  of  shares  of  our  sponsored
investment products are recorded on the trade date.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION. Costs of advertising and promotion are expensed as
incurred.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are
translated at current exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and
related revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect
during the period.  Net exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are
excluded from income and are recorded as part of Accumulated other comprehensive
income.  Foreign currency  transaction  gains and losses are reflected in income
currently.

STOCK SPLITS. All common shares and per share amounts have been adjusted to give
retroactive  effect  to a  three-for-two  stock  split  in  January  1997  and a
two-for-one stock split in January 1998.


DIVIDENDS.  During the years ended September 30, 1999,  1998 and 1997,  Franklin
Templeton  declared  dividends to common  stockholders of $0.22, $0.20 and $0.17
per share, respectively.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  As allowed  under the  provisions  of  Statement  of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation" ("FAS 123"), we have elected to apply Accounting  Principles Board
Opinion  No.  25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued  to  Employees,"  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for  our  stock-based  plans.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  costs are recognized  with respect to stock options  granted,  nor
with  respect  to  shares  issued  under the  Employee  Stock  Investment  Plan.
Compensation  expense is recognized  for the matching  contribution  that we may
elect to make in connection  with the Employee  Stock  Investment  Plan over the
18-month  holding period and for the full cost of restricted stock grants in the
year that they are earned.

COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME.  Effective  October 1,  1998,  we  adopted  Statement  of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" ("FAS
130").   FAS  130   establishes  the  disclosure   requirements   for  reporting
comprehensive  income in an entity's financial  statements.  Total comprehensive
income includes net income,  unrealized  gains and losses on  available-for-sale
securities,  interest-rate swaps and foreign currency  translation  adjustments.
These amounts were formerly reported as "Other" within  Stockholders' equity and
are now reported under "Accumulated other comprehensive  income." Items relating
to movements in Franklin  Templeton stock, such as deferred  compensation in the
form of common stock, remain in "Other" within  Stockholders'  equity. There was
no impact on  previously  reported  net income  arising from the adoption of FAS
130.

The  changes  in  net  unrealized   gains   (losses)  on   investments   include
reclassification  adjustments  relating to the net realized  gains on investment
sales of $0.1  million,  $6.1 million and $14.9  million  during 1999,  1998 and
1997.  The tax effect of the change in unrealized  gains (losses) on investments
was $4.8 million, $(8.4) million and $3.2 million during 1999, 1998 and 1997.


EARNINGS PER SHARE

Earnings per share were computed as follows:

in thousands except per share amounts



NOTE 2 - ACQUISITION

On November 1, 1996,  Franklin  Templeton acquired the assets and liabilities of
Heine  Securities  Corporation.  The  transaction  had a base purchase  price of
approximately  $616  million,  $551  million in cash and 3.3  million  shares of
common  stock  (after the effects of the stock splits in January 1997 and 1998).
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.

In addition to the base purchase price, the purchase agreement, as amended, also
provides for contingent  payments  ranging from $96.25 million to $192.5 million
under  certain  conditions  if  certain  agreed-upon  growth  targets  are  met.
Agreed-upon  growth targets range from 12.5% to 17.5% of management fee revenues
over a five-year period from the date of the acquisition. Payments are pro-rated
based  upon the upper  and  lower  range of the  targets.  The first  contingent
payment of $64.2 million related to these agreed-upon growth targets was made in
the third quarter of fiscal 1998 and was  accounted  for as goodwill  related to
additional  purchase price of the acquisition.  Other payments are due in fiscal
2000 and 2001 if growth targets are met. These payments are not expected to have
a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.


NOTE 3 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES

Investment  securities,  available-for-sale  at  September  30,  1999 and  1998,
consisted of the following:

in thousands





in thousands


At September 30, 1999 substantially all of our debt securities mature within one
year.


NOTE 4 - BANKING/FINANCE GROUP LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The  banking/finance  segment's loans receivable  primarily consist of auto loan
and credit card receivables  from  individuals  that are collectively  described
below as  installment  loans.  Changes  in  these  loans  and in the  associated
allowance  for loan  losses  during  1999 and  1998 are  shown in the  following
tables.

in thousands



in thousands



For the years ended September 30, 1999,  1998 and 1997, the interest  expense of
the banking/finance  segment included in other operating revenues,  net was $9.7
million, $17.8 million and $21.2 million, respectively.


The following table presents  delinquency and loss  information for fiscal 1999,
1998 and 1997.

in thousands



In May 1999 and September 1998, the banking/finance segment sold portions of its
auto loans  receivable  to  securitization  trusts.  The table  below  shows the
assumptions  that were used to calculate the gain on sale and the details of the
transactions.

in millions





NOTE 5 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The  following is a summary of property and  equipment at September 30, 1999 and
1998:

in thousands




NOTE 6 - INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The following is a summary of intangible assets at September 30, 1999 and 1998:

in thousands



During 1999,  management  contracts  previously valued at $13.7 million,  net of
accumulated amortization, related to an offshore non-retail product were written
off in connection  with the  termination of management  contracts as part of the
restructuring plan described in Note 14.


NOTE 7 - SEGMENT INFORMATION

During the year ended September 30, 1999,  Franklin  Templeton adopted Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 131,  "Disclosures  about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information" ("FAS 131"). FAS 131 requires us to present
segment  information  based on the way that we organize  our business for making
operating decisions and assessing performance.

We have two operating segments;  investment management and banking/finance.  The
investment  management segment derives substantially all of its revenues and net
income from providing investment advisory, fund administration, distribution and
related  services to our  sponsored  investment  products.  The  banking/finance
segment  offers  consumer  lending  and  selected  retail  banking  services  to
individuals.

Financial  information  for our two  operating  segments  for the  years  ending
September  30, 1999,  1998 and 1997 is  presented in the table below.  Operating
revenues of the banking/finance segment are reported net of interest expense.

in thousands




The investment  management segment incurs  substantially all of our depreciation
and amortization costs and expenditures on long-lived assets.

We conduct  operations  in five  principal  geographic  areas of the world:  the
United  States,  Canada,  the  Bahamas,  Europe and  Asia/Pacific.  Revenues  by
geographic  area include  fees and  commissions  charged to  customers  and fees
charged to affiliates.

Information is summarized below:

in thousands




NOTE 8 - DEBT

Debt at September 30, 1999 and 1998 was as follows:

in thousands



As of September 30, 1999, maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

in thousands

   2000                                      $191,532
   2001                                        71,570
   2002                                        11,570
   2003                                        11,570
   2004                                         2,673
   Thereafter                                   5,345
- -----------------------------------------------------
   LONG-TERM DEBT                            $294,260


Franklin  Templeton has a revolving  credit agreement with a group of commercial
banks  that  will  allow  us,  at our  option,  to  refinance  commercial  paper
borrowings  through May 2003.  In  accordance  with our intention and ability to
refinance these  obligations on a long-term  basis,  all of our commercial paper
borrowings at September 30, 1999 was classified long-term. The credit agreements
include  various  restrictive  covenants,  including:  a  capitalization  ratio,
interest  coverage  ratio,  minimum working capital and limitation on additional
debt.  We were in  compliance  with all  covenants as of September  30, 1999. At
September 30, 1999,  amounts  available for issuance under the commercial  paper
program were $312.4 million.

At September 30, 1999,  Franklin  Templeton held  interest-rate  swap agreements
maturing  through October 2000, which  effectively  fixed interest rates on $130
million of  commercial  paper.  Our  primary  objective  of  holding  these swap
agreements is to hedge  volatility in interest  rates on our  commercial  paper.
These financial  instruments are placed with major financial  institutions.  The
creditworthiness  of the counterparties is subject to continuous review and full
performance   is   anticipated.   Any   potential   loss  from  failure  of  the
counterparties to perform is deemed to be immaterial.

During 1999,  $50 million of  medium-term  notes at an average  interest rate of
6.03% were retired at maturity.  Notes  totaling $50 million were issued  during
1998. Interest rates range from 5.96% to 6.56% on outstanding notes at September
30, 1999.  These notes mature at various  times from December 1999 through March
2001.  At  September  30,  1999,   amounts  available  for  issuance  under  our
medium-term notes program were $350 million.


NOTE 9 - INVESTMENT INCOME

in thousands


Substantially  all of Franklin  Templeton's  dividend  income was  generated  by
investments in our sponsored investment products.

NOTE 10 - TAXES ON INCOME

Taxes on income for the years ended  September  30, 1999,  1998 and 1997 were as
follows:

in thousands



Included in income before taxes was $356.9  million,  $387.5  million and $358.9
million,  of foreign  income for the years ended  September  30, 1999,  1998 and
1997, respectively.

The major components of the net deferred tax liability/asset as of September 30,
1999 and 1998 were as follows:

in thousands



At  September  30,  1999,  there were  approximately  $54 million of foreign net
operating loss carryforwards,  approximately $32 million of which expire between
2000 and 2007 with the remaining  carryforwards  having an  indefinite  life. In
addition,  there are  approximately  $474  million in state net  operating  loss
carryforwards that expire between 2008 and 2019. A valuation  allowance has been
recognized to offset the related  deferred tax assets due to the  uncertainty of
realizing the benefit of the loss carryforwards.

We have  made no  provision  for U.S.  taxes on  $1,142  million  of  cumulative
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be reinvested for an indefinite  period of time.  Determination of the potential
amount of  unrecognized  deferred  U.S.  income  tax  liability  related to such
reinvested  income  is  not  practicable  because  of the  numerous  assumptions
associated  with this  hypothetical  calculation;  however,  foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.

The  following  is a  reconciliation  between  the amount of tax  expense at the
federal  statutory  rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations  for the
years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997:

in thousands






NOTE 11 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

We lease office space and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at
various dates through fiscal year 2017. Lease expense  aggregated $38.7 million,
$37.2 million and $27.6 million for the fiscal years ended September 30,
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under
non-cancelable operating leases are not material.

We have  entered  into  an  operating  lease  for  the  construction  of our new
corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California.  In connection with this lease,
we are contingently  liable under residual  guarantees,  for approximately  $145
million,  representing  85% of the estimated  total  construction  costs of $170
million.

At September 30, 1999,  the  banking/finance  segment had  commitments to extend
credit aggregating $271 million, principally under its credit card lines.

We are  involved in various  claims and legal  proceedings  that are  considered
normal in our  business.  While it is not feasible to predict or  determine  the
final outcome of these proceedings, we do not believe that they should result in
a materially adverse effect on our financial position,  results of operations or
liquidity.

NOTE 12 - EMPLOYEE STOCK AWARD AND OPTION PLANS

Franklin  Templeton  sponsors two universal stock plans and an Annual  Incentive
Compensation Plan ("AICP").  Under the terms of these plans,  eligible employees
may receive cash and stock awards. Under the terms of the AICP, restricted stock
awards are based on our pretax  profits.  The universal  stock plans provide for
the  issuance  of up to 16  million  shares  of the  common  stock  for  various
stock-related  awards,  including those related to the AICP. As of September 30,
1999, we had  approximately  8.5 million  shares  remaining  available for grant
under the  universal  stock  plans,  including  those  related  to the AICP.  In
addition to the annual award of stock under the plans,  we may award options and
other forms of stock-based  compensation to certain employees.  Currently,  only
restricted stock and stock options have been granted. The Compensation Committee
of the Board of Directors  determines  the terms and  conditions of awards under
the plans.  Total  compensation  cost  recognized for  stock-based  compensation
during 1999,  1998 and 1997 was $37.9 million,  $30.3 million and $42.2 million,
respectively.


Information regarding stock options is as follows:

shares in thousands


Range  of  exercise   prices  at   September   30,  1999  -  $22.15  to  $47.16.
Weighted-average remaining contractual life - four years.

Had  compensation  costs  for our stock  option  plans  and our  Employee  Stock
Investment  Plan (See Note 13) been  determined  based  upon fair  values at the
grant dates in accordance with the provisions of FAS 123,  Franklin  Templeton's
net income  and  earnings  per share  would  have been  reduced to the  proforma
amounts indicated below.


The weighted  average fair value of options  granted during 1999,  1998 and 1997
estimated  on the date of grant  using  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model was
$11.33, $12.08 and $5.89, respectively. The fair value of options granted in all
periods  was  determined  using the  following  assumptions:  dividend  yield of
approximately  1% for all years;  expected  volatility of 36% for 1999,  27% for
1998 and 29% for 1997;  risk-free  interest rate of 5% for 1999, 6% for 1998 and
1997; and an expected life ranging from six months to eight years.

NOTE 13 - EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN

We have a qualified,  non-compensatory  Employee Stock  Investment Plan ("ESIP")
which  allows  participants  who meet certain  eligibility  criteria to purchase
shares of our common stock at 90% of its market value on certain  defined dates.
The ESIP is open to substantially all employees of U.S. subsidiaries and certain
employees of non-U.S.  subsidiaries.  Participants  made their first purchase of
stock  under  this plan  effective  as of July 31,  1998.  Franklin  Templeton's
stockholders approved four million shares of common stock for issuance under the
ESIP. At September 30, 1999,  approximately  386,000  shares had been  purchased
under the ESIP at a weighted average price of $32.26.

In connection  with the ESIP, we may provide  matching grants to participants in
the ESIP of whole or partial shares of common stock.  While  reserving the right
to change such  determination,  we have initially indicated that we will provide
one half-share  for each share held by a participant  for a minimum period of 18
months.

NOTE 14 - RESTRUCTURING

In  December   1998,  we  adopted  a   restructuring   plan  estimated  to  cost
approximately  $58 million and designed to reduce costs,  improve service levels
and  reprioritize  our  business  activities.  Approximately  85% of  the  total
estimated  charges were utilized  during 1999 and the remaining  $8.8 million is
expected to be utilized during fiscal 2000.  Approximately  $18.8 million of the
amounts  utilized  represented  cash  payments.  The  remaining  balance of $8.8
million is included in accounts payable and accrued expenses.


The  following   table  shows  the  component   parts  and  utilization  of  the
restructuring liability:

in millions



Approximately $31.9 million, of the anticipated total restructuring  charges was
for asset write-downs related to discontinued products. More specifically, these
charges were  primarily for the  write-off of  intangible  and other assets with
respect  to the  termination  of  investment  management  agreements  related to
several offshore investment  products and several domestic retail products.  The
underlying  assets of the products in question  have been returned to investors.
The largest single write-down was for $13.7 million of intangible assets related
to an offshore non-retail product.

The  other  significant  component,   $12.3  million,  of  the  estimated  total
restructuring charges was for severance and termination benefits with respect to
efficiencies  made  possible  by the  conversion  from three to one  shareholder
servicing  system.  Approximately  560  positions,  or 7% of  our  workforce  at
December 31, 1998, were eliminated.


NOTE 15 - FAIR VALUES

The fair  value of a  financial  instrument  represents  the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current  transaction between willing parties,
other than in a forced sale or liquidation.  The methods and assumptions used to
estimate fair values of our financial instruments are described below.

Due to the short-term  nature and liquidity of the following items, the carrying
amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated fair value:

- - Cash and cash equivalents
- - Receivables

Investment  securities,  available-for-sale  are carried at fair market value as
required by generally accepted accounting principles. See Note 1.

Loans receivable,  net are valued using interest rates that consider the current
credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loans and the current economic and
lending conditions.  The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated
fair value.

Deposits of the banking/finance  segment are valued using interest rates offered
by comparable  institutions on deposits with similar remaining  maturities.  The
amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated fair value.

Liabilities  under our  interest-rate  swap agreements are carried at their fair
value, which was $1.0 million as of September 30, 1999.

Debt is valued using  publicly-traded debt with similar maturities,  credit risk
and interest rates. The amounts in the consolidated  balance sheet  approximated
fair values.


NOTE 16 - QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

in thousands





Franklin  Templeton's  common  stock is  traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange
("NYSE")  and the Pacific  Exchange,  Inc.  under the ticker  symbol BEN and the
London Stock  Exchange  under the ticker symbol FKR. On September 30, 1999,  the
closing  price of our  common  stock on the  NYSE  was $30  9/16 per  share.  At
November 1, 1999, there were approximately 4,300 stockholders of record.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

October 20, 1999

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income
and cash flows  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated
financial position of Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September
30, 1999 and 1998, and the  consolidated  results of their  operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended  September  30, 1999,
in conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  These financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management;   our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these financial  statements in accordance
with  generally  accepted  auditing  standards  which  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements,  assessing the accounting  principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion  expressed
above.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Francisco, California


Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
          Financial Disclosure

None.


                                   PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive Officers of Registrant
- ---------------------------------

The  following  information  on the  executive  officers of Franklin  Templeton,
including their  principal  occupations for the past five (5) years, is given as
of December 10, 1999.

Jennifer J. Bolt
Age 35

Vice President of FRI since June 1994;  officer and/or director of other company
subsidiaries; employed by FRI in various other capacities for more than the past
five (5) years.

Harmon E. Burns
Age 54
Director Since 1991

Vice Chairman, Member - Office of the Chairman; formerly Executive Vice
President and  director  of the  company  for more than the past five (5)
years;  officer and/or director of many other company  subsidiaries;  officer
and/or director or trustee of 52 of the  investment  companies in the Franklin
Templeton  group of funds.

Martin L. Flanagan
AGE 39

President, Member - Office of the President; formerly Senior Vice President;
Chief Financial  Officer of FRI since December 1995;  officer and/or director of
many other company subsidiaries;  officer,  director and/or trustee of 52 of the
investment companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.


Deborah R. Gatzek
AGE 51

Senior Vice  President of FRI since March 1990;  General  Counsel  since January
1996;  officer  of  many  other  company  subsidiaries;  officer  of 53  of  the
investment companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds. Effective January
1, 2000, Ms. Gatzek will cease to be Senior Vice  President and General  Counsel
and will become a partner in the law firm of Stradley,  Ronon,  Stevens & Young,
LLP, counsel to the Franklin Templeton group of funds.


Donna S. Ikeda
AGE 43

Vice President of FRI since October 1993.  Previously  employed by FRI from 1982
to 1990 as Director of Human Resources.


Charles B. Johnson
AGE 66
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Chairman, Member - Office of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and director
of the company; officer and/or director of many other company subsidiaries;
officer and/or  director or trustee of 49 of the  investment  companies  in the
Franklin Templeton group of funds.


Charles E. Johnson
AGE 43
DIRECTOR SINCE 1993

President, Member - Office of the President; formerly Senior Vice President and
director of the company  for more than the past five (5) years;  officer  and/or
director of many other company subsidiaries;  officer and/or director or trustee
of 33 of the investment companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.


Gregory E. Johnson
AGE 38

President, Member - Office of the President; formerly Vice President of FRI for
more than the past five (5) years;  officer of many other  company  subsidiaries
and of one investment company in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.



Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
AGE 59
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Vice  Chairman,  Member  -  Office  of the  Chairman;  formerly  Executive  Vice
President  and  director  of the  company for more than the past five (5) years;
officer  and/or  director of many other  company  subsidiaries;  officer  and/or
director or trustee of 52 of the investment  companies in the Franklin Templeton
group of funds.

Allen J. Gula, Jr.
AGE 45

President,  Member - Office of the  President;  Senior Vice  President and Chief
Information  Officer of FRI since September  1999;  officer of two other company
subsidiaries since August 1999.  Previously,  Executive Vice President and Chief
Technology  Officer of KeyCorp,  a bank  holding  company,  from October 1998 to
August 1999. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Key Services,  a subsidiary
of KeyCorp,  and  Executive  Vice  President  of KeyCorp from  February  1994 to
October 1998.

Leslie M. Kratter
AGE 54

Vice President of FRI since March 1993 and Secretary  since March 1998;  officer
of many other company subsidiaries.

Kenneth A. Lewis
AGE 38

Vice President of FRI since September 1996 and Corporate Controller of FRI since
1995;  officer  of many  other  company  subsidiaries.  Prior  to the  Templeton
acquisition, employed by various Templeton entities since 1989.

William J. Lippman
Age 74

Senior  Vice  President  of FRI since  March 1990;  officer  and/or  director or
trustee of other company  subsidiaries and of six of the investment companies in
the  Franklin  Templeton  group of funds.  Until  June  1988,  President,  Chief
Executive  Officer  and  director  of L.F.  Rothschild  Fund  Management,  Inc.,
Director of L.F.  Rothschild Asset  Management,  Inc.,  Administrative  Managing
Director and director of L.F. Rothschild & Co., Incorporated.

Charles R. Sims
AGE 38

Vice  President  of FRI  since  June  1999;    Treasurer  of FRI  and  various
subsidiaries  since  September  1997;    assistant  treasurer  of  52  of  the
investment  companies  in the  Franklin  Templeton  group  of  funds.  Prior  to
September  1997,  employed  as Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of
Templeton Management Limited. Employed by Franklin Templeton since 1989.


Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are brothers.  Peter M. Sacerdote,
a director  of  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.,  is a  brother-in-law  of Charles B.
Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr., Charles E. Johnson is the son of Charles B.
Johnson and the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote. Gregory E.
Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson,  the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr.
and Peter  Sacerdote  and the brother of Jennifer  Bolt and Charles E.  Johnson.
Jennifer  Bolt is the  daughter  of Charles B.  Johnson,  the niece of Rupert H.
Johnson,  Jr. and Peter  Sacerdote,  and the sister of  Charles E.  Johnson  and
Gregory E. Johnson. Leslie M. Kratter is the spouse of Deborah R. Gatzek.

Information  regarding the  biographies  of the directors of FRI and  compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement section entitled "Proposal 1: Election of Directors."

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement  section entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors."

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy  Statement  section  entitled  "Principal
Holders of Voting Securities" and "Security Ownership of Management."

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement  section entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."



                                    PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)  Please  see the index in Item 8 for a list of the  financial  statements
filed as part of this report

(2)  Please  see  the  index  in Item 8 for a list  of the  financial  statement
schedules filed as part of this report

(3) The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

(3)(i)(a) Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November 28, 1969,
incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the Company's  Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1994 (the  "1994  Annual
Report")

(3)(i)(b) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994
Annual Report

(3)(i)(c) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed April 1, 1987,  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  (3)(iii) to the
1994 Annual Report

(3)(i)(d) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed February 2, 1994,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the
1994 Annual Report

(3)(ii)  Registrant's Amended and Restated By-laws adopted December 10, 1999

4 Indenture  between  the  Registrant  and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (formerly
Chemical Bank), as trustee, dated as of May 19, 1994,  incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on April
14, 1994


10.1  Representative Distribution Plan between  Templeton  Growth Fund, Inc. and
Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

10.2  Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,Inc.
and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report

10.3  Representative  Investment  Management  Agreement between Templeton Growth
Fund, Inc. and Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

10.4 Representative Management Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin Group
of Funds  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1992 (the "1992
Annual Report")

10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1  Plan  between  Distributors  and  the
Franklin  Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1992
Annual Report

10.6  Amended  Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  approved  January 24, 1995
incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under cover of
Schedule  14A on December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

10.7 Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994 incorporated by reference to
the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December
29, 1993 in connection with its Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  held on January
19, 1994 *

10.8  Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution   Agreement  between
Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Federal Tax-Free Income Fund,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly
Report")

10.9  Distribution  12b-1  Plan for Class II shares  between  Franklin/Templeton
Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin Federal  Tax-Free Income Fund,  incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.10  Representative  Investment  Management Agreement between Templeton Global
Strategy SICAV and Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.11  Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,  Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp.  Securities,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report


10.12  Representative  Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton Distributors,
Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995
Quarterly Report

10.13  Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  incorporated  by  reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.14  Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment Counsel,  Inc. and Client  (NON-ERISA),  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.15  Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Transfer  Agent  and  Shareholder
Services  Agreement  between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  and
Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit  10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

10.16  Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Custodian  Funds,  Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.17  Representative  Class II  Distribution  Plan  between  Franklin/Templeton
Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth
Series, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.18 Representative Dealer Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,
Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual
Report

10.19  Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales  Agreement for Accounts of
Bank and Trust  Company  Customers,  effective  July 1,  1995,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.20  Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Franklin Value  Investors
Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.21 Representative  Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,  Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22
to the 1995 Annual Report

10.22  Representative  Non-Exclusive  Underwriting  Agreement  between Templeton
Growth Fund,  Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services (Asia) Limited,
dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995
Annual Report

10.23 Representative  Shareholder Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton
Investor  Services,  Inc. and  Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services  (Asia)
Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to
the 1995 Annual Report

10.24 Agreement to Merge the Businesses of Heine Securities Corporation,  Elmore
Securities  Corporation  and  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.,  dated June 25,  1996,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K dated
June 25, 1996

10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services dated November 1,
1996 by and between Franklin Investor Services, Inc. and PFPC Inc., incorporated
by reference to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996 (the "1996 Annual Report")

10.26  Representative  Sample  of  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement,  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.27  Representative  Administration  Agreement  between Templeton Growth Fund,
Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.28  Representative  Sample of Fund  Administration  Agreement  with  Franklin
Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the 1996
Annual Report

10.29  Representative  Subcontract  for  Fund  Administrative  Services  between
Franklin Advisers,  Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services,  Inc., incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.30  Representative  Investment  Advisory  Agreement  between  Franklin Mutual
Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.31  Representative  Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds and
Franklin Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to
the 1996 Annual Report

10.32 Representative  Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation Agreement between
Franklin   Templeton  Fund  Allocator  Series  and  Franklin   Advisers,   Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.33  Representative  Management  Agreement  between Franklin New York Tax-Free
Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory Services,  Inc., incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.34  1998  Employee  Stock   Investment   Plan  approved   January  20,  1998,
incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under cover of
Schedule  14A on December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders held on January 20, 1998

10.35 System  Development and Services  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997 by
and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard Shareholder
Systems,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.35 to the 1997 Annual
Report

10.36 1998 Universal Stock Incentive Plan approved October 16, 1998 by the Board
of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed
under cover of Schedule 14A on December 23, 1998 in  connection  with its Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 28, 1999 *

10.37  Amendment  No.  3 to the  Agreement  to  Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine
Securities  Corporation,  Elmore Securities  Corporation and Franklin Resources,
Inc., dated December 17, 1997,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December
31, 1997

10.38  Representative  Agreement  for the Supply of  Investment  Management  and
Administration Services, dated February 16, 1998, by and between Templeton Funds
and  Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,  incorporated  by  reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended March 31, 1998


10.39   Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  as  amended,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 (the "1998 Annual Report")

10.40  Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA),  as amended,  incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the 1998 Annual Report

10.41  Representative  Variable  Insurance Fund  Participation  Agreement  among
Templeton  Variable  Products Series Fund or Franklin  Valuemark Fund,  Franklin
Templeton Distributors,  Inc. and an insurance company incorporated by reference
from Exhibit 10.1 to the form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1998

12 Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21 List of Subsidiaries

23 Consent of Independent Accountants

27 Financial Data Schedule

* Compensatory Plan

(b)(1) Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 22, 1999 was filed on July 22, 1999
attaching Registrant's press release dated July 22, 1999 under Items 5 and 7.

(c) See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d) No separate  financial  statements  are required;  schedules are included in
Item 8.


SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                                    Charles B. Johnson, Chairman and Chief
                                    Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                                    Charles B. Johnson, Chairman, Chief
                                    Executive Officer and Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Harmon E. Burns
                                    Harmon E. Burns, Vice Chairman and Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Martin L. Flanagan
                                    Martin L. Flanagan, President
                                    and Chief Financial Officer

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ F. Warren Hellman
                                    F. Warren Hellman, Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Charles E. Johnson
                                    Charles E. Johnson, President and Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
                                    Rupert H. Johnson, Jr., Vice Chairman
                                    and Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Harry O. Kline
                                    Harry O. Kline, Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Kenneth A. Lewis
                                    Kenneth A. Lewis, Vice President
                                    and Corporate Controller

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ James A. McCarthy
                                    James A. McCarthy, Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Peter M. Sacerdote
                                    Peter M. Sacerdote, Director

Date:    December 20, 1999 By       /s/ Louis E. Woodworth
                                    Louis E. Woodworth, Director



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

(3)(i)(a) Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November 28, 1969,
incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the Company's  Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1994 (the  "1994  Annual
Report")

(3)(i)(b) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994
Annual Report

(3)(i)(c) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed April 1, 1987,  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  (3)(iii) to the
1994 Annual Report

(3)(i)(d) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,
as filed February 2, 1994,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the
1994 Annual Report

(3)(ii)  Registrant's Amended and Restated By-laws adopted December 10, 1999

4 Indenture  between  the  Registrant  and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (formerly
Chemical Bank), as trustee, dated as of May 19, 1994,  incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, filed on April
14, 1994

10.1  Representative  Distribution  Plan between  Templeton  Growth Fund, Inc.
and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

10.2  Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report

10.3  Representative  Investment  Management  Agreement between Templeton Growth
Fund, Inc. and Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

10.4 Representative Management Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin Group
of Funds  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1992 (the "1992
Annual Report")

10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1  Plan  between  Distributors  and  the
Franklin  Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1992
Annual Report


10.6  Amended  Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  approved  January 24, 1995
incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under cover of
Schedule  14A on December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

10.7 Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994 incorporated by reference to
the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December
29, 1993 in connection with its Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  held on January
19, 1994 *

10.8  Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution   Agreement  between
Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Federal Tax-Free Income Fund,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly
Report")

10.9  Distribution  12b-1  Plan for Class II shares  between  Franklin/Templeton
Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin Federal  Tax-Free Income Fund,  incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.10  Representative  Investment  Management Agreement between Templeton Global
Strategy SICAV and Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.11 Representative  Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,  Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp.  Securities,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.12 Representative Dealer Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,
Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995
Quarterly Report

10.13 Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  incorporated  by  reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report


10.14 Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment Counsel,  Inc. and Client  (NON-ERISA),  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.15  Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Transfer  Agent  and  Shareholder
Services  Agreement  between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  and
Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit  10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

10.16 Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Custodian  Funds,  Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.17 Representative  Class II  Distribution  Plan  between  Franklin/Templeton
Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth
Series, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.18 Representative Dealer Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,
Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual
Report

10.19 Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales  Agreement for Accounts of
Bank and Trust  Company  Customers,  effective  July 1,  1995,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.20 Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Franklin Value  Investors
Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report

10.21 Representative  Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,  Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22
to the 1995 Annual Report

10.22  Representative  Non-Exclusive  Underwriting  Agreement  between Templeton
Growth Fund,  Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services (Asia) Limited,
dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995
Annual Report

10.23 Representative  Shareholder Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton
Investor  Services,  Inc. and  Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services  (Asia)
Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to
the 1995 Annual Report


10.24 Agreement to Merge the Businesses of Heine Securities Corporation,  Elmore
Securities  Corporation  and  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.,  dated June 25,  1996,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K dated
June 25, 1996

10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services dated November 1,
1996 by and between Franklin Investor Services, Inc. and PFPC Inc., incorporated
by reference to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996 (the "1996 Annual Report")


10.26  Representative  Sample  of  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement,  incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.27  Representative  Administration  Agreement  between Templeton Growth Fund,
Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.28  Representative  Sample of Fund  Administration  Agreement  with  Franklin
Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the 1996
Annual Report

10.29  Representative  Subcontract  for  Fund  Administrative  Services  between
Franklin Advisers,  Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services,  Inc., incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.30  Representative  Investment  Advisory  Agreement  between  Franklin Mutual
Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.31  Representative  Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds and
Franklin Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to
the 1996 Annual Report

10.32 Representative  Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation Agreement between
Franklin   Templeton  Fund  Allocator  Series  and  Franklin   Advisers,   Inc.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996 Annual Report

10.33  Representative  Management  Agreement  between Franklin New York Tax-Free
Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory Services,  Inc., incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the 1996 Annual Report


10.34  1998  Employee  Stock   Investment   Plan  approved   January  20,  1998,
incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under cover of
Schedule  14A on December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders held on January 20, 1998

10.35 System  Development and Services  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997 by
and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard Shareholder
Systems,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.35 to the 1997 Annual
Report

10.36 1998 Universal Stock Incentive Plan approved October 16, 1998 by the Board
of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed
under cover of Schedule 14A on December 23, 1998 in  connection  with its Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January 28, 1999 *

10.37  Amendment  No.  3 to the  Agreement  to  Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine
Securities  Corporation,  Elmore Securities  Corporation and Franklin Resources,
Inc., dated December 17, 1997,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December
31, 1997

10.38  Representative  Agreement  for the Supply of  Investment  Management  and
Administration Services, dated February 16, 1998, by and between Templeton Funds
and  Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,  incorporated  by  reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended March 31, 1998

10.39   Representative   Investment   Management   Agreement  between  Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  as  amended,  incorporated  by
reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 (the "1998 Annual Report")

10.40  Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
Investment  Counsel,  Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA),  as amended,  incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the 1998 Annual Report

10.41 Representative  Variable Insurance Fund Fund Participation Agreement among
Templeton  Variable  Products  Series  Fund or  Franklin  Valuemark  Funds  (now
Franklin  Templeton  Variable  Insurance  Products  Trust),  Franklin  Templeton
Distributors,  Inc. and an insurance  company,  incorporated  by reference  from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1998


12 Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21 List of Subsidiaries

23 Consent of Independent Accountants

27 Financial Data Schedule

* Compensatory Plan

(b)(1) Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 22, 1999 was filed on July 22, 1999
attaching Registrant's press release dated July 22, 1999 under Items 5 and 7.

(c)  See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d) No separate  financial  statements  are required;  schedules are included in
Item 8.




