
10-K


                                         FORM 10-K

                             SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                   Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)
                                            [X]
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995
                                             OR
                                            [ ]
For the transition period from             to
Commission file number 1-9318
                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                          13-2670991
(State of other jurisdiction                (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

777 Mariners Island Blvd., San Mateo, CA                   94404
(Address of principal and executive offices)            (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code     (415 312-2000
Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:
          Title of each class          Name of each exchange
                                         on which registered

Common Stock,par value $.10 per share New York Stock Exchange
Common Stock,par value $.10 per share Pacific Stock Exchange
Common Stock,par value $.10 per share London Stock Exchange

                Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                           Common Stock, par value $.10 per share
                                      (Title of class)
    Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such  reports),  and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES X NO ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based upon the closing price of $52.625 on December 15, 1995 on the
New York Stock Exchange was $2,195,642,675. Number of shares of the registrant's
common stock outstanding at December 15, 1995: 80,069,767.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
    Certain portions of the registrant's  proxy statement for its Annual Meeting
of  Stockholders  to be held  January  25,  1996,  which  will be filed with the
Commission  before,  on or subsequent to the date hereof,  are  incorporated  by
reference into Part III of this report.


PART I
Item 1. Business

(a)        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. ("FRI") and its predecessors have been engaged in the
financial  services  business  since  1947.  FRI was  organized  in  Delaware in
November 1969. The term "Company" as used herein,  unless the context  otherwise
requires, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company's
principal  executive  and  administrative  offices  are at 777  Mariners  Island
Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California  94404. As of September 30, 1995, the Company
employed  over 4500  employees  on a worldwide  basis,  consisting  of officers,
investment management, distribution,  administrative, sales and clerical support
staff. The Company also employs  additional  temporary help as necessary to meet
unusual requirements.  Management believes that its relations with its employees
are excellent.

On October  30,  1992,  the  Company  and  certain  of its  direct and  indirect
subsidiaries  consummated the acquisition (the  "Acquisition")  of substantially
all of the assets and liabilities of Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger  Ltd., a
corporation  organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands and based in Nassau,
Bahamas  ("Old TGH"),  which  provided  diversified  investment  management  and
related  services on a worldwide  basis  directly  and through  subsidiaries  to
various domestic  open-end and closed-end  investment  companies as well as to a
variety of international investment portfolios and to domestic and international
private  and  institutional  accounts.  Unless the context  otherwise  requires,
references herein to "Templeton" are deemed to refer to the business  operations
acquired by the Company in connection  with the  Acquisition.  Subsequent to the
Acquisition, the Company has operated the Franklin and Templeton businesses on a
unified basis.

In November 1993, the Company  consummated an agreement to manage and advise the
Huntington  Funds of Pasadena,  California,  now called the  Franklin  Templeton
Global Trust.  This open-end  investment  company of several currency  portfolio
series  includes the  Franklin  Templeton  Global  Currency  Fund,  the Franklin
Templeton  Hard Currency Fund and the Franklin  Templeton  High Income  Currency
Fund, which invests in high quality foreign  equivalent money market instruments
in  various  global  currencies,  as  well  as  the  Franklin  Templeton  German
Government Bond Fund, which invests in German government bonds and equivalents.

FRI  is  principally  a  parent  company  primarily  engaged,   through  various
subsidiaries,  in  providing  investment  management,  marketing,  distribution,
transfer agency and administrative services to the open-end investment companies
of the Franklin Group of Funds(registered trademark) and the Templeton Family of
Funds and to domestic and international managed and institutional  accounts. The
Company also provides investment  management and related services to a number of
Franklin and Templeton  closed-end  investment companies whose shares are traded
on various major domestic and some international  stock exchanges.  In addition,
the Company provides investment management,  marketing and distribution services
to  certain  sponsored  investment  companies  organized  in the Grand  Duchy of
Luxembourg  (hereinafter referred to as "SICAV Funds"), which are distributed in
marketplaces  outside  of North  America  and to  certain  investment  funds and
portfolios in Canada (hereinafter referred to as "Canadian Funds") as well as to
certain other international  portfolios in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. The
Franklin  Group  of Funds  consists  of  thirty-four  (34)  open-end  investment
companies (mutual funds) with multiple portfolios. The Templeton Family of Funds
includes  fourteen  (14)  open-end  investment  companies  (mutual  funds)  with
multiple portfolios. Certain investment companies in the Franklin Group of Funds
and the Templeton  Family of Funds are  registered as such under the  Investment
Company Act of 1940 (the "40 Act").

The Franklin  Group of Funds and the Templeton  Family of Funds are  hereinafter
referred  to  individually  as a  "Franklin  fund"  or a  "Templeton  fund"  and
collectively  as  the  "Franklin  funds"  or the  "Templeton  funds",  or,  when
applicable to both fund groups, individually as a "Fund" and collectively as the
"Franklin  and  Templeton  funds"  or the  "Funds".  The  closed-end  investment
companies,  the foreign  based funds and the other  domestic  and  international
managed and  institutional  accounts are collectively  referred to as the "Other
Assets".  The  Franklin  and  Templeton  funds  along with the Other  Assets are
collectively referred to as the "Franklin Templeton Group".

As of  September  30,  1995,  total  assets  under  management  in the  Franklin
Templeton Group were $130.8 billion,  the make-up of which was  approximately as
follows:  for the open-end  investment  companies in the Franklin Group of Funds
(excluding  variable  annuities),  $69.5  billion;  for the open-end  investment
companies in the Templeton Family of Funds (excluding variable annuities), $28.2
billion; for all the Other Assets (including variable annuities), $33.1 billion.
This makes the Franklin Templeton Group one of the largest investment management
complexes in the United States.

The mix of assets under management by a large financial services complex such as
the  Franklin  Templeton  Group can be  segregated  by type of  assets,  type of
investment  vehicle,  type of investor or  geographic  location of assets  held.
International  and domestic  equity  assets under  management,  whether held for
growth potential,  income potential or various combinations thereof by all types
of  investors,  including  institutional  and  separate  accounts on a worldwide
basis,  were  approximately  $66.7  billion at September  30, 1995 and represent
approximately  51% of total assets under management.  Fixed-income  assets (both
long and short-term),  including money market fund assets,  held by all types of
investors on a worldwide basis were approximately  $64.1 billion and represented
49% of total  assets  under  management  at fiscal year end.  Equity  growth and
equity income assets in funds primarily sold to non institutional investors were
$53.2  billion and  represented  41% of total assets under  management at fiscal
year end. A  significant  portion of these equity  assets ($36  billion) held in
funds  sold  primarily  to  non  institutional  investors  were  in  global  and
international equity funds. Assets under management for institutional  accounts,
whether in  institutional  mutual  funds,  separate  accounts  or other types of
investment  products,  were  approximately  $16.9 billion or 13% of total assets
under  management at fiscal year end and were  primarily  invested in global and
international  equities.  Assets under management by U.S. based closed-end funds
were $3.9 billion at September 30, 1995.

The Company,  through certain  subsidiaries,  also provides  advisory  services,
variable  annuity  products,  and sponsors  and manages  public and private real
estate programs.  Other  subsidiaries  offer consumer banking services,  insured
deposits,  dealer auto  loans,  and credit  cards.  The  Company  also  provides
custodial,  trustee  and  fiduciary  services  to IRA  and  Keogh  plans  and to
qualified  retirement  plans and private trusts.  From time to time, the Company
also  participates  in  various  investment  management  joint  ventures.  On  a
consolidated  worldwide basis, the Company provides  domestic and  international
individual and institutional investors with a broad range of investment products
and services designed to meet varying investment  objectives,  which affords its
clients the  opportunity to allocate their  investment  resources  among various
alternative  investment  products  as  changing  worldwide  economic  and market
conditions warrant.

Subsidiaries-Investment  Management,  Administration,  Distribution  and Related
Services

The Company's  principal  line of business is providing  investment  management,
administration, distribution and related services for the Franklin and Templeton
funds and for the Other Assets. This business is primarily conducted through the
principal wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiary companies described below.
Revenues are  generated  primarily  by  subsidiaries  that provide  advisory and
management services.  Revenues are derived primarily from investment  management
fees calculated on a sliding scale fund-by-fund basis in relation to fund assets
under management.

Franklin Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Advisers,  Inc. ("Advisers") is a California corporation formed in 1985
and is based in San Mateo,  California.  Advisers is registered as an investment
advisor  with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  ( the "SEC") under the
Investment  Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers  Act") and is also registered as
an  investment  advisor in the States of  California  and New  Jersey.  Advisers
provides investment advisory,  portfolio management and administrative  services
under  management  agreements  with most of the Funds in the  Franklin  Group of
Funds. Advisers manages approximately $77.7 billion,  representing approximately
59% of the Company's total assets under management,  and generates more than 40%
of total Company revenues.

Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd.

Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger  Ltd.  ("New TGH") is a Bahamian  corporation
located in Nassau,  Bahamas formed in connection with the Acquisition and is the
successor  company to Old TGH. New TGH is registered  as an  investment  advisor
with the SEC under the  Advisers  Act.  New TGH  provides  investment  advisory,
portfolio  management and administrative  services under various agreements with
certain  of the  Templeton  funds and  Other  Assets.  New TGH is the  principal
investment  advisor  to the  Templeton  funds and  manages  approximately  $27.6
billion,  representing  approximately  21% of the  Company's  total assets under
management.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.

Templeton  Investment Counsel,  Inc. ("TICI") is a Florida corporation formed in
October, 1979, based in Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida and was acquired by the Company
in connection with the Acquisition.  TICI is the principal investment advisor to
the Separate Accounts.  In addition,  it provides  investment advisory portfolio
management  services to certain of the Templeton funds and subadvisory  services
to certain of the Franklin  funds.  TICI manages  approximately  $15.8  billion,
representing 12% of the Company's total assets under management.

Templeton Global Investors, Inc.

Templeton Global Investors,  Inc. ("TGII") is a Delaware  corporation  formed in
October 1987, based in Ft.  Lauderdale,  Florida and was acquired by the Company
in connection with the Acquisition.  TGII provides business management services,
including fund accounting,  securities  pricing,  trading,  compliance and other
related administrative activities under various management agreements to certain
of the  Franklin  and  Templeton  funds.  Revenues  are  derived  from  business
management fees calculated on a sliding scale, fund-by-fund basis in relation to
assets under management.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd.  ("Templeton  Asia") is a corporation  organized
under the laws of and based in Singapore  and was formed under a different  name
in connection with the Acquisition.  It is registered as the foreign  equivalent
of an investment  advisor in Singapore with the Monetary  Authority of Singapore
and is also registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act. A subsidiary company
of Templeton  Asia is  registered  as the foreign  equivalent  of an  investment
advisor in Hong Kong and it is  anticipated  that  Templeton Asia will become so
registered through a representative office in Hong Kong upon liquidation of such
subsidiary.  Templeton Asia provides investment advisory and related services to
certain  Templeton  funds  and  portfolios.  Templeton  Asia is  principally  an
investment advisor to emerging market equity portfolios.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited is a corporation organized
under the laws of,  and is based in,  Hong  Kong.  It was formed in late 1993 to
distribute  and  service  the  Company's  financial  products  in Hong  Kong and
Southeast Asia.

Templeton Management Limited

Templeton  Management Limited is a Canadian  corporation formed in October 1982,
which,  with  its  subsidiaries,  was  purchased  in  the  Acquisition,  and  is
registered in Canada as the foreign  equivalent  of an investment  advisor and a
mutual  fund  dealer  with  the  Ontario  Securities  Commission.   It  provides
investment  advisory,  portfolio  management,  distribution  and  administrative
services under various  management  agreements  with the Canadian Funds and with
private and institutional accounts.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("Distributors") is a New York corporation
formed in 1947  whose name was  changed  from  Franklin  Distributors,  Inc.  in
connection with the  post-Acquisition  unification of the Templeton and Franklin
organizations.  It is  registered  with  the  SEC as a  broker-dealer  and as an
investment  advisor and is a member of the National  Association  of  Securities
Dealers,  Inc. (the  "NASD").  As the  underwriter  of the shares of most of the
Franklin  and  Templeton  funds,  it  earns  underwriting   commissions  on  the
distribution of shares of the Funds.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc.

Templeton/Franklin  Investment Services, Inc. ("TFIS") is a Delaware corporation
formed  in  October  1987  under  a  different  name  and  was  acquired  in the
Acquisition.  TFIS  is  registered  with  the  SEC  as a  broker-dealer  and  is
registered as an investment advisor.  Its principal business activities include:
(i) through its Templeton Portfolio Advisory division, serving as a sponsor of a
comprehensive  fee  (wrap  account)  program,  in which it  provides  investment
advisory and broker-dealer services, as well as serving as investment adviser in
other  broker-dealer  wrap  account  programs  and  directly  as an adviser  for
separate  accounts;  (ii)  serving  as  a  direct  marketing  broker-dealer  for
institutional  investors in Franklin  Templeton  Funds;  and (iii)  serving as a
broker-dealer  through which another  subsidiary is paid soft dollar  commission
revenues for its quantitative research services.

Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. ("FTIS") is a California corporation
formed in 1981 whose name was changed  from  Franklin  Administrative  Services,
Inc. in connection  with the post  Acquisition  unification of operations of the
Templeton and Franklin  organizations.  FTIS provides shareholder record keeping
services and acts as transfer agent and  dividend-paying  agent for the Franklin
and Templeton  funds.  FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under
the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange  Act").  FTIS is compensated
under an agreement with each Franklin and Templeton  open-end mutual fund on the
basis of a fixed annual fee per account, which varies with the Fund and the type
of services being provided.

Other  Templeton  Investment  Advisory,   Distribution,   Research  and  Related
Subsidiaries  were  acquired or formed in  connection  with the  Acquisition  or
subsequent  thereto,  are  organized  and/or  located  in  California,  Florida,
Australia,  the Bahamas,  France,  Germany,  India, Italy,  Luxembourg,  and the
United Kingdom,  and provide  investment  advisory and related services to other
subsidiaries of the Company and to various  domestic and foreign  portfolios and
private and institutional  accounts. In addition,  the Company,  through various
Templeton  subsidiaries,  has  opened or is in the  process  of  opening  branch
offices or in some instances forming subsidiaries in various other international
locations,  including Argentina,  Hungary, Mauritius,  Russia, South Africa, and
Vietnam.

Franklin Templeton Trust Company

Franklin  Templeton Trust Company ("FTTC"),  a California  corporation formed in
October 1983, is a trust company  licensed by the California  Superintendent  of
Banks. FTTC serves primarily as custodian for Individual Retirement Accounts and
Keogh Plans whose assets are invested in the Franklin and Templeton  funds,  and
as trustee or fiduciary of private trusts and retirement plans.

Templeton Funds Trust Company

Templeton  Funds  Trust  Company  ("TFTC"),  a  Florida  corporation  formed  in
December,  1985,  is a trust  company  licensed  by the  Florida  Office  of the
Comptroller.   TFTC  provides   sub-administration   services  through  Franklin
Templeton Trust Company to Individual  Retirement Accounts and Keogh Plans whose
assets are invested in the Templeton  Family of Funds,  and serves as trustee of
commingled trusts for qualified retirement plans.

Franklin Management, Inc.

Franklin  Management,  Inc.  ("FMI"),  a  California  corporation  organized  in
February 1978, is a registered investment advisor for private accounts. FMI also
provides advisory services to third party broker-dealer wrap fee programs.

Franklin Institutional Services Corporation

Franklin   Institutional   Services   Corporation   ("FISCO")  is  a  California
corporation  organized in August 1991. FISCO is a registered  investment advisor
and provides services to bank trust departments,  municipalities,  corporate and
public pension plans and pension consultants.

Franklin Agency, Inc.

Franklin  Agency,  Inc.  ("Agency")  is a  California  corporation  organized in
December  1971.  Agency  provides  insurance  agency  services  for the Franklin
Valuemark annuity products.

ILA Financial Services, Inc.

ILA Financial Services, Inc. ("ILA") is an Arizona corporation that is 80% owned
by the Company. It was formed in June 1969 as an insurance holding company.  Its
principal subsidiary is Arizona Life Insurance Company ("Arizona Life") based in
Phoenix,  Arizona.  During the fiscal year,  substantially  all of the operating
assets of Arizona Life, consisting of term life policies,  were sold and Arizona
Life's liabilities  thereunder were assumed by the purchaser of such assets. ILA
is presently engaged in the final stages of the sale of Arizona Life's insurance
charter and licenses.  ILA  specializes  in developing  and marketing  insurance
related products.

Templeton Funds Annuity Company

Templeton  Funds Annuity  Company  ("TFAC") is a Florida  corporation  formed in
January 1984 and  purchased in the  Acquisition  which offers  variable  annuity
products.  TFAC is principally  regulated by the Florida Department of Insurance
and Treasurer.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc.

Templeton Worldwide,  Inc. is a Delaware  corporation  organized in July 1992 as
the parent holding company for all of the Templeton companies acquired or formed
in connection with the Acquisition as well as subsequent thereto.

Subsidiaries-Other Financial Services

In  addition  to  its  principal  business  activity  of  providing   investment
management and related services,  during all or portions of the fiscal year, the
Company was also  engaged in two (2) other  lines of  business in the  financial
services  marketplace  conducted  through  the  subsidiaries   described  below:
consumer  lending  services and the management of public and private real estate
programs.


Consumer Lending Services

Franklin  Bank (the "Bank"),  formerly  Pacific  Union Bank & Trust  Company,  a
98.2%-owned   subsidiary  of  the  Company,  is  a  non-Federal  Reserve  member
California State chartered bank. The Bank was formed in 1974 and was acquired by
the Company in December 1985.  The Bank,  with total assets of $185.8 million as
of September 30, 1995,  provides  consumer banking products and services such as
credit cards, auto loans, deposit accounts and consumer loans. The Bank does not
exercise  its  commercial  lending  powers in order to maintain  its status as a
"non-bank bank" pursuant to the provisions of the Competitive  Equality  Banking
Act of 1987 ("CEBA") which permits the Company, a "non banking company" prior to
CEBA,   to  remain   exempt  from  the  Bank  Holding   Company  Act  under  the
"grandfathering"  provisions  of CEBA.  As a  non-bank  bank,  it is  subject to
various  regulatory  limitations,  including limits on the increase in its asset
growth to 7% on an annual  basis as well as a  prohibition  on  engaging  in any
activity in which it was not engaged in March of 1987.

Franklin Capital Corporation

Franklin Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a Utah corporation  formed in November
1993 to expand the Company's auto lending activities.  FCC conducts its business
primarily in the Western  region of the United States and  originates  its loans
through a network of auto  dealerships  representing a wide variety of makes and
models.  FCC offers  several  different  loan  programs  to finance new and used
vehicles.  FCC also  acquires  credit  card  receivables  from the  Bank.  As of
September  30,  1995,  FCC's  total  assets  included  $224.8  million  of gross
automobile contracts and $71.6 million of gross credit card receivables.

Real Estate Subsidiaries

The  Company's  real estate  related  line of business  is  conducted  primarily
through two (2) principal subsidiary  corporations.  Franklin  Properties,  Inc.
("FPI")  is a  real  estate  investment  and  management  company  organized  in
California in April 1988, which manages three (3) real estate investment trusts,
which are traded  publicly on the American Stock Exchange.  Property  Resources,
Inc. ("PRI"), a California  corporation  organized in April 1967 and acquired by
the Company in December 1985,  serves as general  partner or advisor for certain
other real estate investment programs.


Investment Management

The Franklin  Templeton Group  accommodates a variety of investment  objectives,
including, capital appreciation,  growth and income, income, tax-free income and
stability of principal.  In seeking to achieve such  objectives,  each portfolio
emphasizes different investment  securities.  Portfolios seeking income focus on
taxable and tax-exempt  money market  instruments,  tax-exempt  municipal bonds,
fixed-income debt securities of corporations and of the United States government
and its agencies and instrumentalities  such as the Government National Mortgage
Association ("GNMA" or "Ginnie Mae"), the Federal National Mortgage  Association
("Fannie Mae"), and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation  ("Freddie Mac").
Portfolios that seek capital  appreciation invest primarily in equity securities
in a wide  variety  of  international  and  domestic  markets,  some seek  broad
national  market  exposure,  while  others  focus on  narrower  sectors  such as
precious metals, health care, emerging technology,  mid-cap companies, small-cap
companies,  real  estate  securities  and  utilities.   Still  others  focus  on
investments in particular  emerging market countries and regions.  A majority of
the assets managed are equity oriented.

In addition to closed-end  funds,  many of which are described  below, the Other
Assets  include  portfolios  managed  for  the  world's  largest   corporations,
endowments, charitable foundations, pension funds, wealthy individuals and other
institutions.  Investment  management  services  for  such  portfolios  focus on
specific client objectives  utilizing the various investment  techniques offered
by the Franklin Templeton Group.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995,  except for the Company's money
market funds, and funds specifically designed for institutional investors, whose
shares are sold  without a sales charge at all  purchase  levels,  shares of the
open-end funds in the Franklin and Templeton  funds were generally sold at their
respective net asset value per share plus a sales charge, which varies depending
on the  individual  fund and the amount  purchased.  In accordance  with certain
terms and  conditions  described  in the  prospectuses  for such Funds,  certain
investors are eligible to purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales
charges,  and  investors may  generally  exchange  their shares of a fund at net
asset value for shares of another fund in the Franklin Templeton Group when they
believe  such an  investment  decision  is  appropriate  without  the payment of
additional sales charges.

As of September  30, 1995,  the net asset  holdings of the five largest funds in
the Franklin Templeton Group (some of which are investment companies and some of
which  are  series  of other  investment  companies)  were  Franklin  California
Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. ($13.1 billion),  Franklin U.S. Government Securities
Fund ($11.1 billion),  Templeton Growth Fund ($7.2 billion),  Templeton  Foreign
Fund  ($7.1  billion)  and the  Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free  Income  Fund  ($7.0
billion).  At September 30, 1995,  these five mutual funds  represented,  in the
aggregate, 35% of all assets under management in the Franklin Templeton Group.



General Fund Description

Set forth in the  tables  below is a brief  description  of the Funds and of the
principal  investments  and  investment  strategies  of such Funds or portfolios
comprising most of the principal  Funds or portfolios in the Franklin  Templeton
Group separated into 21 different general categories as follows:


        (i)   Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital
              and Income

        (ii)  Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

        (iii) Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

        (iv)  Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

        (v)   Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

        (vi)  Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments
              (Valuemark variable annuity)

        (vii) Franklin Closed-End Funds

        (viii)Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

        (ix)  Franklin Templeton International Currency
              Funds

        (x)   Templeton Funds Seeking Preservation of
              Capital and Income

        (xi)  Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from
              Global Portfolios

        (xii) Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from
              Domestic Portfolios

        (xiii)Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income
              from Global Portfolios

        (xiv) Templeton Funds Seeking High Total Return from
              Global Portfolios

        (xv)  Templeton Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

        (xvi) Templeton Contractual Plans

        (xvii)Templeton SICAV Funds

       (xviii)Templeton Canadian Funds

        (xix) Templeton Closed-End Funds

        (xx)  Templeton Funds for Institutional Investors

        (xxi) Representative Templeton International
              Portfolios






Recent Fund Introductions

The funds referenced above include five (5) new funds introduced by the Franklin
Templeton  Group  during the fiscal  year ended  September  30,  1995:  Franklin
Templeton Money Fund II, Franklin Natural Resources Fund, Templeton Russia Fund,
Inc.  (closed-end),  Templeton Greater European Fund and Templeton Latin America
Fund.


(b)        FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on the Company's operations in various geographic areas of the world
and a breakout of business segment information is contained in Footnote 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. herein.

(c)        NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

                     Investment Management and Administrative Services

The  Company,   through  its  various  subsidiaries  described  above,  provides
investment  advisory,  portfolio  management,  transfer agent and administrative
services to the Franklin Templeton Group. Such services are provided pursuant to
agreements  in effect with each of the U.S.  registered  Franklin and  Templeton
open-end and  closed-end  investment  companies.  Comparable  agreements  are in
effect  with  foreign  registered  Funds and with other  managed  accounts.  The
management  agreements  for the U.S.  registered  Franklin and  Templeton  funds
continue in effect for successive annual periods,  providing such continuance is
specifically  approved at least  annually by a majority vote cast in person at a
meeting of such Funds' Boards of Trustees or Directors  called for that purpose,
or by a vote of the  holders of a  majority  of the  Funds'  outstanding  voting
securities,  and in either  event,  by a majority  of such  Funds'  trustees  or
directors  who are not parties to such  agreement or  interested  persons of the
Funds or the Company within the meaning of the 40 Act. Trustees and directors of
Funds' boards are  hereinafter  referred to as "directors".  Foreign  registered
Funds have various termination rights and provisions.

Each such agreement  automatically  terminates in the event of its  "assignment"
(as defined in the 40 Act) and either party may terminate the agreement  without
penalty after written notice ranging from 30 to 60 days. "Assignment" is defined
in the 40 Act as  including  any direct or indirect  transfer  of a  controlling
block of voting stock. Control is defined as the power to exercise a controlling
influence over the management or policies of a company.

If there were to be a  termination  of a  significant  number of the  management
agreements   between  the  Franklin  and  Templeton   funds  and  the  Company's
subsidiaries or with respect to a significant  portion of the Other Assets, such
termination  would have a material adverse impact upon the Company.  To date, no
management  agreements of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with any of the
Franklin and Templeton funds have been involuntarily terminated.  Changes in the
customer base of  institutional  investors  occur on a regular basis.  Since the
Templeton  acquisition to date, assets under management in the category of Other
Assets set forth above have in the aggregate continued to grow.

As of  September  30,  1995,  substantially  all of the  shares  of the  various
directly and indirectly  owned  subsidiary  companies were owned directly by the
Company or  subsidiaries  thereof,  except for  nominal  numbers of shares  with
respect to certain  foreign  entities  required to be owned by nationals of such
countries in  accordance  with foreign law and certain  other  limited  minority
ownership of ILA and Franklin Bank. Charles B. Johnson,  Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr.
and R. Martin Wiskemann  beneficially own approximately  20.1%,  16.0% and 9.9%,
respectively,  of the outstanding voting common stock of the Company. Charles B.
Johnson and his brother  Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. serve on the Board of Directors
of the Company as well as on most of the Franklin  funds' boards and some of the
Templeton funds' boards.  Charles E. Johnson,  the son of Charles B. Johnson and
the nephew of Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr.  serves on the Board of  Directors of the
Company and on some of the Franklin and Templeton funds' boards.

Under the terms of the  management  agreements  with the Franklin and  Templeton
funds, the various subsidiary  companies described above generally supervise and
implement  such Funds'  investment  activities  and  provide the  administrative
services and  facilities  which are  necessary  to the  operation of such Funds'
business. Such subsidiary companies also conduct research and provide investment
advisory  services and,  subject to and in accordance  with any directions  such
Funds' boards may issue from time to time, such subsidiary  companies  determine
which  securities  such Funds will  purchase,  hold or sell.  In addition,  such
subsidiary  companies  take all steps  necessary  to implement  such  decisions,
including the selection of brokers and dealers to execute  transactions for such
Funds,  in  accordance  with  detailed  criteria  set  forth  in the  management
agreement for such Funds and applicable law and practice.  Similar  services are
rendered with respect to the Other Assets.

Generally,  the  Company  or a  subsidiary  provides  and pays the  salaries  of
personnel who serve as officers of the Franklin and Templeton  funds,  including
the  President  and such other  administrative  personnel  as are  necessary  to
conduct such Funds'  day-to-day  business  operations,  including  maintaining a
Fund's   portfolio   records,   answering   shareholder   inquiries,   providing
information,  creating and publishing  literature,  compliance  with  securities
regulations,  accounting systems and controls, preparation of annual reports and
other administrative activities.

The Funds  generally  pay their own expenses  such as legal and  auditing  fees,
reporting and board and shareholder  meeting costs,  SEC and state  registration
and similar expenses.  Generally, the Funds pay advisory companies a fee payable
monthly  based  upon a  Fund's  net  assets.  Annual  rates  under  the  various
investment  management  agreements range from .15% to a maximum of 2.00% and are
generally reduced as average net assets exceed various threshold levels.

The investment  management  agreements  permit  advisory  companies to act as an
advisor  to more  than one Fund so long as such  companies'  ability  to  render
services to each of such Funds is not  impaired,  and so long as  purchases  and
sales  appropriate  for all  such  Funds  are made on a  proportionate  or other
equitable  basis.  Management  of the  Company  and the  directors  of the Funds
regularly review the Fund fee structures in light of Fund performance, the level
and range of services provided,  industry conditions and other relevant factors.
Advisory fees are  generally  waived or  voluntarily  reduced when a new Fund is
first  established  and then increased to contractual  levels with the growth in
net assets.

The investment  advisory  services  provided by such advisory  companies include
fundamental  investment research and valuation analyses,  encompassing  original
country, industry and company research, company visits and inspections,  and the
utilization of such sources as company public records and activities, management
interviews,   company  prepared   information,   and  other  publicly  available
information,  as well as analyses of suppliers,  customers and  competitors.  In
addition,  research  services  provided by  brokerage  firms are used to support
other  research.  In this  regard,  some  brokerage  business  from the Funds is
allocated in recognition of value-added research services received.

Fixed-income  research  includes  economic  analysis,  credit analysis and value
analysis. The economic analysis function monitors and evaluates numerous factors
that  influence  the supply and demand for credit on a worldwide  basis.  Credit
analysts  research the credit  worthiness  of debt issuers and their  individual
short-term and long-term debt issues. Yield spread differential analysis reviews
the  relative  value  of  market  sectors  that  represent  buying  and  selling
opportunities.

Additional  shareholder  administrative  services  are  provided by FTIS,  which
receives  administrative  fees from the Funds for providing  shareholder  record
keeping  services and for acting as transfer and  dividend-paying  agent for the
Funds. As of September 30, 1995, such  compensation was based upon an annual fee
per shareholder account,  ranging between $10.00 and $18.00, a pro-rated portion
of which was paid monthly.




Distribution and Marketing

Distributors acts as the principal  underwriter and distributor of shares of the
Franklin and Templeton open-end funds. Pursuant to underwriting  agreements with
the Funds,  Distributors  generally  pays the expenses of  distribution  of Fund
shares.  Although the Company does significant  advertising and sales promotions
through media sources, Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of
independent   participating  securities  dealers.  As  of  September  30,  1995,
approximately  3500 local,  regional and  national  securities  brokerage  firms
offered  shares of the Franklin and  Templeton  funds for sale to the  investing
public.  The Company has  approximately 48 "wholesalers"  who interface with the
broker-dealer  community.  Fund  shares  are  offered to  individual  investors,
qualified groups,  trustees,  IRA and Keogh plans, employee benefit plans, trust
companies,  bank trust  departments and  institutional  investors.  In addition,
various management and advisory services,  commingled and pooled accounts,  wrap
fee arrangements and various other private  investment  management  services are
offered to certain private and institutional investors.

Broker-dealers  are paid various fees for  services in matching  investors  with
Funds whose investment  objectives match such investors'  goals.  Broker-dealers
also assist in explaining the operations of the Funds,  in servicing the account
and in various other distribution services.

Most of the Franklin and  Templeton  Funds have a  multi-class  share  structure
whereby  Class I shares are sold with a maximum  front-end  sales  charge  which
ranges from a low of 1.50% to a high of 5.75%.  Reductions  in the maximum sales
charges may be  available  depending  upon the amount  invested  and the type of
investor.  Class II shares, which were introduced during the fiscal year, have a
hybrid,  level  load  structure  combining  aspects of  conventional  front-end,
back-end and level-load pricing. Class II shares are subject to an initial sales
charge of 1% and are generally subject to a 1% contingent  deferred sales charge
on  redemptions  within 18 months of purchase and to higher  on-going Rule 12b-1
fees described below. The multi-class structure was adopted to provide investors
greater payment  alternatives in implementing  their  investment  programs.  The
Company's money market and  institutional  funds are sold to investors without a
sales charge.

Most of the U.S  registered  Templeton  funds  and most of the  U.S.  registered
Franklin  funds,  with the  exception of certain  Franklin and  Templeton  money
market funds,  have also adopted  distribution  plans (the  "Plans")  under Rule
12b-1  promulgated  under the 40 Act ("Rule 12b-1").  Class II shares  generally
have higher  on-going Rule 12b-1 fees. The Plans are  established for an initial
term of one year and,  thereafter,  must be approved annually by the Fund boards
and by a majority  of  disinterested  directors.  All such Plans are  subject to
termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested  directors or by
the Funds'  shareholders.  The Plans permit the Funds to bear  certain  expenses
relating to the distribution of their shares.

Fees under the Plans for Class I shares  range in amount  from a low of .10% per
annum of average  daily net  assets to a high of .50% while  Class II share fees
range between .65% to 1 %. The  implementation of the Plans provided for a lower
fee on Class I shares  acquired  prior to the adoption of such Plans.  Fees from
the Plans are paid primarily to third party dealers who provide service to their
shareholder accounts, as well as engage in distribution activities. Distributors
may  also  receive  reimbursement  from  the  Funds  for  expenses  involved  in
distributing the Funds,  such as advertising and  reimbursement for a 1% payment
to  dealers on sales of Class II shares,  subject to the Plans'  limitations  on
amounts.

The  financial  effects on the Company of the  distribution  of the new class of
shares is  discussed in more detail under Item 7,  "Management's  Discussion  of
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" (the "MD&A"), below.

As of  September  30, 1995,  there were  approximately  4.7 million  shareholder
accounts in the Franklin and Templeton Funds.



Revenues

As shown in the table below, the Company's  revenues are derived  primarily from
its investment management activities.  Total operating revenues are set forth in
the table  below.  Revenues  from  investment  management  fees  have  comprised
approximately  86%, 80% and 78% in 1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively,  of total
operating  revenue for each of the three  fiscal  years  reported.  Underwriting
commissions,  net from gross  sales and  reinvestments  of  products  subject to
commissions  contributed to revenues approximately 4%, 12% and 14% in 1995, 1994
and 1993,  respectively.  Transfer,  trust and  related  fees from  mutual  fund
activities contributed 8%, 7% and 7% in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.




                           Operating Revenues
                       Years Ended September 30,
                            ($ in millions)

                                              1995      1994     1993

Investment management fees                  $731.3    $647.7   $489.7

Underwriting commissions, net                 37.1      96.6     87.1

Transfer, trust and related fees              68.7      54.6     45.1

Banking/finance, net and other                 8.7      13.9      9.4
                                               ---      ----      ---

Totals                                      $845.8    $812.8   $631.4
                                            ======    ======   ======


Other Financial Services

The Company's  consumer lending,  dealer auto loan and real estate businesses do
not as yet contribute  significantly to either the revenues or the net income of
the Company. Franklin Bank's operations are limited by national banking laws and
no immediate  significant  increase in revenues is anticipated.  The real estate
operations  have  incurred net losses since  inception  and the Company does not
anticipate  any immediate  improvement  in this line of business.  The Company's
dealer auto loan  business  has required  the  infusion of  significant  working
capital during the prior two fiscal years,  either in the form of  inter-company
loans or by  contributions  to the  capital of FCC by the  Company.  At the same
time, the Company has experienced an increase in delinquency rates in such loans
during the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1995 and, in response,  has expanded
its auto loan  collection  efforts.  A more detailed  financial  analysis of the
financial  effects of loan losses and delinquency  rates, as well as the funding
of this activity, is contained in the MD&A.

Regulatory Considerations

Virtually  all  aspects  of the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to various
foreign, federal and state laws and regulations. As discussed above, the Company
and a number of its subsidiaries  are registered with various  foreign,  federal
and state governmental agencies. Foreign, federal and state laws and regulations
grant such supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power
to limit or restrict  the Company  from  carrying on its business if it fails to
comply with such laws and  regulations.  In such event,  the possible  sanctions
which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations
on the Company's (or a subsidiary's)  engaging in business for specified periods
of time, the revocation of the investment advisor or broker-dealer registrations
of subsidiaries and censures and fines.

The  Company's  officers,  directors  and  employees  may from  time to time own
securities  which are also held by the Funds.  The Company's  internal  policies
with respect to individual  investments require prior clearance and reporting of
transactions and restrict  certain  transactions so as to reduce the possibility
of conflicts of interest.

To the extent that  existing or future  regulations  affecting  the sale of Fund
shares or other  investment  products or their  investment  strategies  cause or
contribute to reduced sales of Fund shares or investment  products or impair the
investment  performance  of the Funds or such  other  investment  products,  the
Company's  aggregate assets under management and its revenues might be adversely
affected.  Changes in  regulations  affecting  free  movement  of  international
currencies might also adversely affect the Company.

In 1993,  the NASD received SEC approval for a new Rule of Fair  Practice  which
limits the amount of aggregate  sales  charges  which may be paid in  connection
with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through brokers.
The Rule provides  that funds with an  asset-based  sales charge (most  commonly
provided in Distribution  Plans pursuant to SEC 40 Act Rule 12b-1) may impose no
more  than  6.25% - 7.25%  (depending  upon  whether  or not the fund  also pays
"service  fees") in combined  front-end,  deferred sales charges and asset-based
sales charges. The effect of that Rule might be to limit the amount of fees that
could be paid  pursuant to a fund's  12b-1 Plan in a situation  where a fund has
no, or limited new sales for a prolonged  period of time.  In that event,  it is
possible that a fund which was experiencing  weak sales would have the situation
exacerbated  by the fact that it would have to limit  fees to brokers  under its
12b-1  Plan,  or reduce  its up front  sales  charge.  None of the  Franklin  or
Templeton funds are in, or close to, that situation at the present time.


Competition

The financial  services  industry is highly  competitive.  In the United States,
there are over 5,600  mutual  funds of varying  sizes,  investment  policies and
objectives  whose shares are being offered to the public.  During the past three
fiscal years,  assets under management in the mutual fund industry  increased by
over $1.09  trillion,  a 69.2%  growth  rate.  Over this same time  period,  the
Company  experienced an approximate .48% decline in overall market share.  While
the Company's  assets and associated  revenues still grew  substantially  during
this time period,  substantial  asset under management growth occurred for other
fund  management  companies  whose  asset  bases were more  heavily  oriented to
domestic  equities.  Such  growth  was  due to  record  domestic  equity  market
appreciation  during this period as well as increased  asset flows into domestic
equity  products.  The  substantial  returns  available in the  domestic  equity
marketplace  had a  negative  effect  on sales  of  fixed-income  products.  The
combined  effect of these two events were a significant  factor in the Company's
market share decline.  The Company  believes that its strong  fixed-income  base
coupled with its strong global  presence will serve its  competitive  needs well
over time. The Company continues its focus on service to customers,  performance
on investments and extensive marketing  activities with its strong broker-dealer
and other financial institution distribution network.

The Company  advertises the Franklin Templeton Group in major national financial
publications, as well as on radio and television to promote name recognition and
to assist its distribution  network. Such activities included purchasing network
and cable  programming,  sponsorship  of  sporting  events,  sponsorship  of The
Nightly  Business  Report on  public  television  and  extensive  newspaper  and
magazine advertising.

Competition for sales of Fund shares is influenced by various factors, including
general securities market conditions,  government  regulations,  global economic
conditions,  portfolio  performance,  advertising and sales promotional efforts,
share  distribution  channels and the type and quality of dealer and shareholder
services.  Many securities dealers, whose large retail distribution systems play
an important  role in the sale of shares in the Franklin  and  Templeton  funds,
also sponsor competing  proprietary mutual funds. The Company believes that such
securities  dealers  value the ability to offer  customers a broad  selection of
investment  alternatives and will continue to sell Franklin and Templeton funds,
notwithstanding the availability of proprietary products. However, to the extent
that these firms limit or restrict  the sale of  Franklin  and  Templeton  funds
shares  through their  brokerage  systems in favor of their  proprietary  mutual
funds, assets under management might decline and the Company's revenues might be
adversely affected.

Although the Company believes that it has substantially improved its competitive
position and has substantially  benefited from the Templeton Acquisition and the
wide variety of global investment  products now available to its customers,  the
shift in asset  mix from  primarily  a  fixed-income  base to a  combination  of
fixed-income  and global equities has increased the possibility of volatility in
the  Company's  managed  portfolios  due to the  increased  percentage of equity
investments held.

Another element of competition among mutual funds is the rates at which fees and
sales charges are imposed.  The Company believes that its investment  management
and  other  fee  structures  are  already  relatively  competitive  and does not
presently anticipate  significant  competitive pressures for further reductions.
However,  a number of mutual fund sponsors  presently market their funds without
sales charges.  As investor  interest in the mutual fund industry has increased,
competitive   pressures  have  increased  on  sales  charges  of   broker-dealer
distributed funds. The Company believes that, although this trend will continue,
a significant  portion of the  investing  public still relies on the services of
the  broker-dealer  community,  particularly  during weaker  market  conditions.
However, in response to competitive  pressures or for other similar reasons, the
Company  might be forced to lower or  further  adjust  sales  charges  which are
currently substantially reallowed to broker-dealers. The reduction in such sales
charges  could  make the sale of  shares of the  Franklin  and  Templeton  funds
somewhat less  attractive to the  broker-dealer  community,  which could in turn
have a material adverse effect on the Company's  revenues.  The Company believes
that it is well  positioned  to deal with such changes in marketing  trends as a
result  of  its  already  extensive  advertising   activities  and  broad  based
marketplace recognition.

In addition to competition from other investment company managers and investment
advisors,  the Company and the  investment  company  industry are in competition
with the financial services and other investment  alternatives  offered by stock
brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies,  banks, savings and
loan  associations and other financial  institutions.  Many of these competitors
have  substantially  greater  resources  than the Company.  Although the banking
industry  continues to expand its sponsorship of proprietary  funds  distributed
through  third party  distributors,  the Company has and  continues  to actively
pursue sales  relationships  with banks and  insurance  companies to broaden its
distribution network in response to such competitive pressures. However, as with
proprietary  products  offered by the Company's  broker-dealer  network,  to the
extent that banks limit or restrict  the sale of Franklin  and  Templeton  share
through their  distribution  systems in favor of their proprietary mutual funds,
assets  under  management  might  decline and the  Company's  revenues  might be
adversely  affected.  In addition,  competitive  pressures have led to increased
demands for distribution costs for broker-dealer  distributed funds, which could
have a negative impact on the Company's profit margins and net income.





Special Considerations

General

As discussed above, the Company's revenues are derived primarily from investment
management  activities.  Broadly speaking, the direction and amount of change in
the net assets of the Funds are  dependent  upon two  factors:  (1) the level of
sales of shares of the funds as compared to  redemptions of shares of the funds;
and (2) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities  owned by
the Funds. A significant  portion of the Company's  assets under  management are
fixed-income  securities.  Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield curve
will have an effect on  fixed-income  assets under  management as well as on the
flow of monies to and from fixed-income funds and,  therefore,  on the Company's
revenues from such funds.

Templeton Acquisition

As a result of the  Templeton  Acquisition,  the  portfolio mix of the Company's
assets  under  management  changed  from  primarily  fixed-income  oriented to a
combination of both equity and fixed-income,  increasing the potential impact of
changes in the equity marketplace on the assets under management of the combined
entity.  On the other hand, the Company  believes that the more diverse Franklin
Templeton  Group is more  competitive  as a result  of a  greater  diversity  of
product mix  available  to its  customers.  Market  values are  affected by many
things,  including the general condition of national and world economics and the
direction and volume of changes in interest rates and/or  inflation  rates.  The
effects of these  factors on equity funds and  fixed-income  funds often operate
inversely  and it is,  therefore,  difficult  to  predict  the net effect of any
particular set of conditions on the level of assets under management.

Although  the Company and its assets under  management  are subject to political
and currency risks, due to its international activities, as is discussed in more
detail in the MD&A, its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency markets and
to fixed-asset value depreciation is limited.

Item 2.   Properties

General

The Company owns or leases  offices and  facilities in ten (10) locations in the
immediate vicinity of its principal executive and administrative offices located
at 777 Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California.  In  addition,  the
Company owns four (4) buildings near Sacramento,  California, as well as two (2)
buildings in St.  Petersburg,  Florida and one (1) building in Nassau,  Bahamas.
The Company  also  leases  facilities  in various  locations  on a national  and
worldwide  basis.  Since the Company is operated on a unified  basis,  corporate
activities, fund related activities,  accounting operations,  sales, real estate
and banking  operations,  auto loans and credit  cards,  management  information
system  activities,  publishing  and printing  operations,  shareholder  service
operations and other business  activities and operations take place in a variety
of such  locations.  The  Company  or its  subsidiaries  lease  office  space in
Florida,  New York,  and Utah and in several  other  states.  In  addition,  the
Company or its subsidiaries lease office space in Argentina, Australia, Bermuda,
Canada, France,  Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy,  Luxembourg,  Poland, Russia,
South Africa,  Singapore,  the United Kingdom and Vietnam. The Company is in the
process of leasing new office space in Hungary and Poland.

Property Description

Leased

The  Company  leases  approximately  177,000  square  feet of  space  at the 777
Mariners Island Boulevard location for an approximate monthly rental of $489,000
under a lease expiring  February 16, 2001. The lease is subject to adjustment to
market value rent in 1996. The Company also leases approximately  121,000 square
feet of  office/warehouse  space at 1147 and 1149  Chess  Drive in Foster  City,
California, at an approximate monthly rental of $126,000, expiring in June 2000.
In addition, the Company leases approximately 47,000 square feet of office space
at 1810 Gateway Drive, San Mateo,  California,  at an approximate monthly rental
of $63,000,  expiring in late 1997. The Company also leases approximately 37,000
square feet of office space pursuant to several lease  agreements at 901 and 951
Mariners Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California,  at an approximate  monthly
rental of $63,000.  These leases expire at various times between  September 1996
and April 2000.  The Company also leases  approximately  49,000 square feet at 2
Waters  Drive,  San  Mateo,  California,  at an  approximate  monthly  rental of
$74,000,  expiring in July 1999 and  approximately  23,000 square feet of office
space at 1850 Gateway Drive, San Mateo,  California,  at an approximate  monthly
rental of $34,000, expiring in July 2000.

The principal Templeton offices are located in approximately  88,000 square feet
of space  in Ft.  Lauderdale,  Florida,  at an  approximate  monthly  rental  of
$178,000 under various  leases  expiring in December 2000. The Company leases an
aggregate of approximately  40,000 square feet in other locations throughout the
United  States.  The Company  also leases  approximately  74,000  square feet of
office  space for its  foreign  operations,  29,000  square feet of which are in
Toronto, Canada.

Owned

The Company  maintains a customer  service facility in the property that it owns
at  10600  White  Rock  Road,  Rancho  Cordova,   California,  near  Sacramento,
California  and occupies  75,000 square feet in this  property.  The Company has
leased  out  46,000  square  feet to a third  party  until  February  2000 at an
approximate   monthly  rental  of  $65,000.   The  Company  owns  an  additional
twenty-seven  (27)  acres  of  adjoining   undeveloped  land  on  which  it  has
constructed two (2) office  buildings of  approximately  67,000 square feet each
and a data  center/warehouse  facility of  approximately  162,000  square  feet.
Tenant improvements for the data  center/warehouse  facility are presently being
installed,  with  completion  estimated by the end of December 1995. The Company
plans  to  develop  additional  facilities  on  this  property,  but has not yet
commenced  construction.  The Company also owns and occupies an office  building
with approximately 69,000 square feet of office space at 1800 Gateway Drive, San
Mateo, California.

The Company owns two (2) facilities in St. Petersburg,  Florida:  an approximate
90,000 square foot office building  primarily  devoted to shareholder  servicing
activities;  and an  approximate  117,000  square  foot  facility  devoted  to a
computer data center, training and mailing operations.  The Company also owns an
approximate 14,000 square foot office building in Nassau,  Bahamas, as well as a
nearby condominium residence.

Other

The  Company is the sole  limited  partner  with a 60%  partnership  interest in
Mariner Partners,  a California  limited  partnership formed in 1984 to develop,
operate and hold the  property  occupied by the Company at 777  Mariners  Island
Boulevard.  Mariner  Partners  obtained 30-year  non-recourse  financing for the
property from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company at an interest rate of 8-7/8%.
The principal  balance  outstanding  as of September 30, 1995 was $26.0 million.
The loan is due in November 1996. The Company  anticipates that Mariner Partners
will have no difficulty in refinancing the loan secured by the property.

Item 3.   Pending Legal Proceedings

There are no material  pending legal  proceedings,  other than ordinary  routine
litigation  incidental  to the  business,  to which  the  Company  or any of its
subsidiaries was a party, or of which any of their property is the subject;  nor
are  any  such  proceedings   known  to  be  contemplated  by  any  governmental
authorities.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Owners

During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.


Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are brothers.  Peter M. Sacerdote,
a director of the Company,  is a brother-in-law of Charles B. Johnson and Rupert
H.  Johnson,  Jr.  Charles E.  Johnson is the son of Charles B.  Johnson and the
nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote.  Gregory E. Johnson is the
son of  Charles  B.  Johnson,  the  nephew of Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr. and Peter
Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer Bolt and Charles E. Johnson. Jennifer Bolt
is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson,  the niece of Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. and
Peter  Sacerdote,  and the sister of Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E.  Johnson.
Leslie M. Kratter is the spouse of Deborah R. Gatzek.








                                          PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
        Stockholder Matters

        
The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"),
the Pacific Stock Exchange (Symbol: BEN) and the London Stock Exchange. On
September 30, 1995, the closing price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE
was $57 5/8 per share. At December 12, 1995, there were approximately 1,800
shareholders of record. In addition, the Company estimates that there are
approximately 12,000 beneficial shareholders whose shares are held in street
name. The high and low sales prices by quarter for the 1995 and 1994 fiscal
years, as traded on the NYSE Composite Tape, were as follows:



The Company paid dividends of $0.40 per share in fiscal 1995 and $0.32 per share
in fiscal 1994. The Company expects to continue paying dividends on a quarterly
basis to common stockholders depending upon earnings and other relevant factors.








Item 6. Selected Financial Highlights

(in 000's, except Assets under Management and per share amounts )

* Amounts are restated to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split in March 1992.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
        Financial Condition and Results of Operations

GENERAL
Franklin Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries (the "Company")
derives substantially all of its revenue and net income from providing
investment management, administration, distribution and related services to the
Franklin Templeton funds, managed accounts and other investment products. The
Company has a diversified base of assets under management and a full range of
investment products and services to meet the needs of most individuals and
institutions.

During 1995, assets under the Company's management grew to $130.8 billion, an
increase of $12.7 billion (11%) over September 30, 1994, which was the result of
both net sales and market appreciation.

The Company operates in five geographic areas of the world: the United States,
Canada, the Bahamas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. At September 30, 1995, the Company
had offices in 18 countries. The following offices were opened with the intent
of widening investment research capabilities, as well as, in some cases,
supporting local distribution activities:

Bombay, India                     Milan, Italy
Buenos Aires, Argentina           Moscow, Russia
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam         Paris, France
Johannesburg, South Africa        Warsaw, Poland


The contributions to the Company's operating profits from non-U.S. operations
increased in 1995 principally as a result of an increase in fee revenues from
investment management services provided by its foreign subsidiaries. In the
future, the contribution to operating revenue, as well as the contribution to
operating profit, will be dependent upon the amount and composition of assets
managed by its subsidiaries.

Despite the Company's global presence, its exposure to adverse fluctuations in
foreign currency markets is limited because a material portion of the foreign
subsidiaries' revenues and the majority of their monetary assets are U.S. dollar
denominated, while fixed assets in those locations are not significant.
Furthermore, custody of a material portion of the foreign subsidiaries' monetary
assets are held with U.S. financial institutions. In 1995, 93% of the Company's
operating revenue was earned in U.S. dollars. The Company has not deemed it
necessary to enter into foreign currency hedging transactions.

The Company participates in the financial derivatives markets to manage its
exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The Company has entered into interest
rate swap agreements to convert interest payment obligations under variable rate
debt instruments to fixed-rate interest payment obligations.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net income for the year ended September 30, 1995 was $268.9 million, an increase
of $17.6 million (7%) from $251.3 million in 1994, and an increase of $75.8
million (43%) from $175.5 million in 1993.

These increases were primarily attributable to increases in revenue generated by
assets under management. Results of operations will continue to be dependent
upon general economic growth, the strength of capital markets and the Company's
ability to meet market demands with competitive products and services. Operating
revenues will be specifically dependent upon the amount and composition of
assets under management, and mutual fund sales, as well as the number of mutual
fund investors and institutional clients. Operating expenses are expected to
increase with the Company's continued expansion, the increase in competition and
the Company's continued commitment to improve its products and services. These
endeavors will likely result in an increase in selling expenses, employment
costs, and other general and administrative expenses.



Assets under management
(in millions)

                                    YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
                                     1995    1994     1993


FRANKLIN TEMPLETON GROUP:


FIXED-INCOME FUNDS:

Tax-free income                    $40,487  $39,432  $40,741
U.S. government fixed income
 (primarily GNMAs)                  14,679   14,676   18,430
Taxable and tax-free money funds     2,792    2,629    2,342
Global/international fixed-income    2,784    2,491    2,429
TOTAL FIXED-INCOME FUNDS            60,742   59,228   63,942

EQUITY AND INCOME FUNDS:
Global/international equity         35,977   28,049   19,463
U.S. equity/income                  17,258   17,559   15,515

TOTAL EQUITY AND INCOME FUNDS       53,235   45,608   34,978

TOTAL FRANKLIN TEMPLETON
 FUND ASSETS                       113,977  104,836   98,920

FRANKLIN TEMPLETON
 INSTITUTIONAL ASSETS               16,860   13,336    8,570

TOTAL FRANKLIN TEMPLETON GROUP    $130,837 $118,172 $107,490

Changes in assets under management
(in millions)

                                     1995     1994     1993

Assets under management - beginning $118,172 $107,490  $69,218
Merger with Templeton                     -       -     20,372
Sales and reinvestments              27,934    41,121   42,537
Redemptions                         (22,461)  (28,760) (31,057)
Market appreciation/(depreciation)    7,192    (1,679)   6,420
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT - ENDING   $130,837  $118,172 $107,490

Assets under the Company's management increased by $12.7 billion (11%) in fiscal
1995, $10.7 billion (10%) in fiscal 1994 and $38.3 billion (55%) in fiscal 1993,
respectively. The merger with the Templeton organization on October 30, 1992
increased the Company's assets under management at the time of the merger in
fiscal 1993 by over $20 billion dollars.

As shown in the tables above, the composition of assets under management has
changed over the past three years. This development is a result of changes in
relative sales, redemptions and market value among the specific asset classes.
The volatility of these factors will continue to affect operating revenues and
results of operations in the future.

Fixed-income funds represented 46% of assets under management at September 30,
1995 as compared to 50% and 59% at September 30, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
The trend of net redemptions and market depreciation in various fixed-income
funds during the first six months of fiscal year 1995 began to reverse during
the second six months of the year. In 1995, investors showed more interest in
tax-free income funds due to higher income tax rates which became effective
during 1994, regaining most of the decline in assets in 1994 as compared to
1993. Net assets in U.S. government fixed-income funds remained unchanged
compared to 1994 after a decline compared to 1993. The Company maintains a
conservative investment philosophy which does not utilize derivative securities
to any material degree to enhance yields of fixed-income portfolios.

Equity and income funds represented 41% of assets under management at September
30, 1995 as compared to 39% and 33% at September 30, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. This relative increase was primarily a result of the growth in the
Templeton Family of Funds. Net assets of global/international equity funds were
$36.0 billion at September 30, 1995, an increase of $7.9 billion (28%) over 1994
and an increase of $8.6 billion (44%) over 1993. Investors seeking increased
diversity and the prospect of above-average investment returns have been
attracted to international equity funds during these periods.

Institutional assets under management, comprised of predominantly
global/international equity portfolios, represented 13%, 11% and 8% of the
Company's assets under management at September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The growth was primarily the result of an increase in the number
of clients during these periods. The Company continues expansion of the services
it provides in this area.

OPERATING REVENUES

Investment management fees:
(in millions)

                               1995     1994    1993

Revenues                     $731.3   $647.7  $489.7

12-month average assets
 under management          $121,614 $115,443 $96,834

The Company's revenues from investment management fees are derived primarily
from fixed-fee arrangements based upon the level of assets under management with
open-end and closed-end investment companies and managed accounts. Annual rates,
under the various investment management agreements, vary and generally decline
as the average net assets of the portfolios exceed various threshold levels.
There have been no significant changes in the management fee structures for the
Franklin Templeton Group in the periods under review.

Investment management fees for the period ended September 30, 1995 increased
$83.6 million (13%) over 1994, which increased $158.0 million (32%) over 1993.
This was the result of an increase in, and a shift in composition of, average
assets under management to higher fee equity and income funds during the three
years under consideration.


Underwriting commissions, net:
(in millions)

                              1995     1994     1993

Revenues                      $37.1    $96.6   $87.1

Gross fund sales and
 reinvestments of products
 subject to commissions     $15,458  $22,460 $20,200

Revenues from underwriting commissions are earned primarily from fund sales.
Most sales of Franklin Templeton funds include a sales commission, of which a
significant portion is reallowed to selling intermediaries.

Net underwriting commissions for the year ended September 30, 1995 decreased
$59.5 million (62%) from 1994, which increased $9.5 million (11%) over 1993. The
decrease in 1995 from 1994 was primarily due to a 31% decrease in fund sales. An
additional factor causing the decrease was the change in the composition of
sales of fund products sold in the U.S. and Canada to those products with lower
underwriting commission retention rates. The increase in underwriting
commissions in 1994 as compared to 1993 resulted primarily from an increase in
fund sales during that period.

During 1995, the boards of directors and/or shareholders of many of the Franklin
and Templeton funds approved proposals to offer multiple classes of shares. Many
of the Franklin Templeton funds introduced the new class of shares, called Class
II, during the third quarter of the current fiscal year. Class II shares are
intended to expand the distribution of fund shares to a broader audience of
investors who have different pricing preferences, but who share similar
investment objectives. While the new class of shares will increase distribution
expenses to the Company as compared to the existing class of shares and will
utilize the Company's capital resources over the short term, the Company
believes that Class II shares will result in an overall increase in assets under
management by expanding distribution of fund shares. Sales of Class II shares
have represented 8% of total long-term U.S. mutual fund sales for the Company
since their introduction in May, 1995. The financial impact of Class II shares
is further discussed under Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.

During 1994, many of the shareholders of the Franklin Group of Funds(R) approved
distribution plans pursuant to Rule 12b-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
In conjunction with the implementation of these plans, the Franklin mutual fund
sales commission structure was modified to eliminate sales charges on reinvested
dividends and to replace them with an increased front-end sales charge. These
changes are expected to provide a more competitive sales
structure while making underwriting commission revenues more sensitive to sales
levels.

Transfer, trust and related fees:
(in millions)

                              1995      1994    1993

Revenues                      $68.7    $54.6   $45.1

Number of accounts              4.7      4.4     3.3

Transfer, trust and related fees are generally fixed charges per account which
vary with the particular type of fund and the service being rendered.
Consequently, these fees are principally dependent upon the number of
shareholder accounts.

Transfer, trust and related fees for the period ended September 30, 1995
increased $14.1 million (26%) as compared to 1994, an increase of $9.5 million
(21%) over 1993. The increases were related principally to increases in retail
fund shareholder accounts. Retail fund shareholder accounts increased to 4.7
million as of September 30, 1995 from 4.4 million and 3.3 million as of
September 30, 1994 and 1993, respectively. On July 1, 1995, approximately 85 of
the Company's U.S. mutual funds consisting of approximately 2.5 million
shareholder accounts implemented an average annual increase of $4 per
shareholder account. During 1993, the Company combined its transfer agency
activities into a single entity which has, and should continue to result in,
improved efficiencies and services.

Banking/finance, net and other:
(in millions)

                                              1995    1994   1993

Revenues                                     $54.5   $31.5  $22.9
Provision for loan losses                    (17.2)   (5.4)  (4.1)
Interest expense                             (28.6)  (12.2)  (9.4)
                                             ---------------------
                                              $8.7   $13.9   $9.4

YIELD ON AVERAGE EARNING ASSETS                9.0%    9.6%   9.7%
COST OF AVERAGE INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES   5.9%    4.7%   5.0%

Banking/finance, net and other for the year ended September 30, 1995 decreased
$5.2 million (37%) over 1994, as compared to an increase of $4.5 million (48%)
over 1993. The decrease in 1995 was due to an $11.8 million increase in the
provision for loan losses and a $16.4 million increase in interest expense
attributable to the banking/finance group, partially offset by a $22.3 million
increase in banking/finance group gross revenues due to a 110% increase in
average loans outstanding during the period. The increase in 1994 over 1993 was
primarily due to a 72% increase in average loans outstanding during the period.

Interest expense of the banking subsidiary for the year ended September 30, 1995
was $10.2 million, an increase of $0.8 million (9%) as compared to 1994 and
1993. During 1995 and 1994, a portion of the banking/finance group's loans
receivable were financed through the Company. The interest expense on the amount
funded by the Company was $18.3 million and $2.9 million in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The increase during 1995 was a result of increased borrowings
related to the growth in auto loan and credit card portfolios.

OPERATING EXPENSES
Operating expenses:
(dollars in millions)

                                1995    1994    1993

General and administrative     $389.2  $358.7  $277.4
Selling                          70.2    69.1    52.1
Amortization of goodwill         18.3    18.3    17.0
                               ----------------------
                               $477.7  $446.1  $346.5

Operating margins                 44%     45%      45%

Operating expenses for the year ended September 30, 1995 increased $31.6 million
(7%) over 1994, an increase of $99.6 million (29%) over 1993. These increases
principally resulted from the general expansion of the organization. Operating
income as a percentage of operating revenue was 44% for the year ended September
30, 1995 as compared to 45% for the years ended September 30, 1994 and 1993.

General and administrative expenses were $389.2 million for the year ended
September 30, 1995, an increase of $30.5 million (9%) as compared to 1994, and
an increase of $81.3 million (29%) over 1993. These increases were due to higher
employment, technology and facility costs related to the general expansion of
the business. In 1994, the Company implemented an annual incentive plan which
provides eligible employees payment of both cash and restricted stock. The costs
associated with the annual incentive plan are charged to income currently. Costs
associated with restricted stock awards granted prior to the adoption of the
annual incentive plan are amortized over the contract period. Deferred
incentives vest through 1998. Employment costs represented 55%, 56% and 52% of
total operating expenses in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The Company has evaluated the potential impairment of goodwill on the basis of
the expected future operating cash flows to be derived from this intangible
asset in relation to the Company's carrying value and has determined that there
is no impairment. The Company will periodically review the carrying value of
goodwill for potential impairment.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES)
Investment and other income for the year ended September 30, 1995 was $29.7
million, an increase of $7.0 million (31%) from 1994, and an increase of $4.4
million (24%) from $18.3 million in 1993. The net increases in investment income
during 1995 and 1994 resulted from a combination of factors, including the
increase in average balances of cash equivalents and investment securities, an
increase in the average level of interest rates and the realization of capital
gains as compared to prior years.

Interest expense, exclusive of banking/finance group interest, for the year
ended September 30, 1995 was $11.2 million, a decrease of $15.7 million (58%)
from 1994, which decreased $1.9 million from 1993. The decrease in interest
expense during 1995 and 1994 is primarily due to the Company's paydown of
outstanding debt used to finance operations.

The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert interest
payments under variable rate commercial paper to fixed-rate interest payment
obligations without exchanging the underlying principal amounts. At September
30, 1995, the Company had swap agreements outstanding with an aggregate notional
amount of $155 million, maturing at various times over a forty-eight month
period from the balance sheet date. The fixed rates of interest range from
5.015% to 6.451%. These financial instruments are placed with major financial
institutions. The credit worthiness of the counterparties is subject to
continuing review and full performance is anticipated.

During the year ended September 30, 1995, the Company had the following interest
rate swap agreements outstanding. The interest differential between the fixed
rate and floating rate to be paid or received is accrued as an increase or
decrease to interest expense over the period of the agreements.

Swap agreements:
   Issue        Maturity       Notional       Fixed
   Date           Date          Amount         Rate

  3/8/93         1/30/95      $75 million      4.44%

  3/8/93         1/29/96      $30 million      5.015%

  8/14/95        8/14/99      $75 million      6.451%

  9/7/95         9/7/99       $50 million      6.24%

The Company's effective interest rate at September 30, 1995, including interest
on the banking/finance group debt, was 6.17% on $465.9 million of outstanding
commercial paper, medium-term notes and subordinated debentures as compared to
5.70% on $462.9 million of debt outstanding at September 30, 1994. At September
30, 1995, commercial paper comprised $235.9 million of debt outstanding with an
effective interest rate of 6.37% including swaps and 5.87% excluding swaps, as
compared to $232.9 million outstanding at September 30, 1994 with an effective
interest rate of 4.75% including swaps and 4.77% excluding swaps. Medium-term
notes comprised $80 million of the total debt outstanding with an effective
interest rate of 6.50% at September 30, 1995 and 1994. Subordinated 6.25%
debentures, due August 3, 2002, comprised $150 million of the total debt
outstanding at September 30, 1995 and 1994 with and effective interest rate of
6.65% and 6.61%, respectively.

TAXES ON INCOME
The Company's effective tax rate was 30.4%, 30.7% and 36.0% in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. The Company's effective tax rate differs from the U.S.
statutory rates as a substantial portion of the undistributed earnings of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries has been reinvested. The effective tax rate will
continue to be sensitive to the relative contribution to taxable income of
foreign earnings which are subject to reduced tax rates and are not currently
includable in U.S. taxable income. The Company does not provide taxes on these
earnings.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Stockholders' equity was $1,161.0 million at September 30, 1995, an increase of
$230.2 million (25%) from $930.8 million at year end 1994, and an increase of
$210.4 million (29%) from $720.4 million at year end 1993.

Cash provided by operating activities for the period ended September 30, 1995
was $296.3 million, an increase of $21.7 million (8%) compared to $274.8 million
in 1994. The increase in fees receivable from the Franklin Templeton funds
primarily resulted from an increase in investment management fee revenue.

Net cash expended in investing activities in 1995 was $152.0 million, including
a net $39.3 million used to purchase corporate investments in the Franklin
Templeton funds and other investments and $40.4 million used to purchase
premises and equipment. The Company anticipates that 1996 property and equipment
acquisitions, currently expected to be at levels comparable to 1995, will be
funded from liquid assets currently available and from future operating cash
inflows. Most of the remainder of cash used in investing activities funded net
increases in the banking/finance group's loans receivable. Banking/finance loans
receivable, net, increased during 1995 and 1994 primarily due to $72.5 million
and $255.9 increases in dealer auto loans, respectively.

As of September 30, 1995, the auto loan portfolio consisted of approximately 50%
new and 50% used cars. Approximately 50% of the auto loans outstanding were in
California, approximately 20% in New Mexico and the balance distributed
throughout the western United States. The Company has experienced an increase in
delinquency rates since September 30, 1994 and, in response, has expanded its
auto loan collection efforts and enhanced the systems supporting those
activities. The following is an analysis of the allowance for loan losses,
delinquency rates and credit losses.


Banking/finance allowance for loan losses:
(dollars in millions)

                                        1995    1994   1993

Beginning balance                       $3.2    $1.5   $2.1

 Provision:
   Dealer auto                          13.6     2.5    1.0
   Credit card                           3.3     2.8    3.0
   Other                                 0.3     0.1    0.1
                                       -------------------- 
                                        17.2     5.4    4.1
 Net charge-offs:
  Dealer auto                            8.8     0.6    1.0
  Credit card                            2.2     3.0    3.5
  Other                                  0.3     0.1    0.2
                                       ---------------------
                                       (11.3)   (3.7)  (4.7)

ENDING BALANCE                           $9.1    $3.2   $1.5

% of gross receivables                    1.8%    0.7%   1.1%

TOTAL LOANS PAST DUE                    $26.5    $9.0   $2.8

Total banking/finance loans outstanding
 % past due                               5.3%    2.1%   2.0%

The Company anticipates continued increases in its investment in credit card and
dealer auto loan portfolios. The Company intends to continue funding these
investments through operating cash flows and existing debt facilities.
Additionally, the Company will continue to review alternative funding sources
such as securitization of the auto loan portfolio.

The Company used net cash of $93.0 million in 1995 for financing activities. The
issuance of $34.5 million in commercial paper was offset by $32.8 million in
payments on debt. The Company paid $31.7 million in dividends to stockholders.
During the year ended September 30, 1995, the Company purchased 1,125,934
Franklin Resources, Inc. shares for $41.7 million and employees exercised
options on 18,404 shares for $0.4 million. The Company has 1,869,266 shares
remaining under its authorized repurchase program. The Company will continue
from time to time to purchase its own shares in the open market and in private
transactions for use in connection with various corporate employee incentive
programs and when it believes the market price of its shares merits such action.
At September 30, 1995, the Company held liquid assets of $643.2 million,
including $261.7 million of cash and cash equivalents as compared to $515.0
million and $210.4 million, respectively, at September 30, 1994.

Distribution of Class II shares requires the Company to advance a one percent
dealer commission which will be recouped substantially during the subsequent
twelve-month period primarily through a 0.75% and 0.50% asset-based sales charge
on equity and fixed-income funds, respectively. The one percent dealer
commission is deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over an
eighteen-month period. From the introduction of Class II shares on May 1, 1995
through September 30, 1995, the Company has advanced $3.9 million in dealer
commissions. During 1995, the Company's Canadian subsidiary advanced
approximately $3.7 million in dealer commissions earned from the sale of
similarly priced products. The five percent dealer commission payable on the
Canadian products is deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a
forty-month period. The Company anticipates increased sales of Class II shares
as well as similarly priced products in Canada and Europe which will result in
increased advances of dealer commissions. The Company has and will fund such
advances through operating cash flows and existing debt facilities.

Financing for the $786 million Templeton acquisition in 1993 was provided by the
proceeds of $150 million of subordinated debentures with option rights, issued
prior to the 1993 fiscal year specifically to finance the purchase, a $360
million term loan, approximately $87 million in Franklin stock issued to
Templeton management and employee shareholders, and approximately $189 million
of additional cash.

The $150 million of subordinated debentures bear interest at the rate of 6.25%
per annum, payable in semiannual installments of approximately $4.7 million. The
debentures are redeemable at the election of the holder, anytime on or after
August 3, 1997, at a price ranging from 92.22% to 100% of face value. At
September 30, 1995, the effective interest rate on the subordinated debentures
was 6.65%.

In May 1994, the Company replaced the $360 million term note facility with a
more flexible financing structure comprised of a $300 million commercial paper
program and a $300 million medium-term note program. As a part of this new
financing structure, the Company established two revolving credit and
competitive auction facilities as back-up for the commercial paper program. The
total bank credit facilities are $300 million, divided evenly between a 364-day
and a five-year revolving credit facility.

On December 8, 1994, the Company announced that it had applied for and received
approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission to purchase $7.1 million of
unsecured Orange County obligations from two of its money market mutual funds.
The Company purchased these securities on a voluntary basis to alleviate any
concerns by those funds' shareholders and does not anticipate any significant
losses as a result. The maturity date on such obligations has been extended in
consideration of increased interest rates. Orange County continues to service
the notes and the Company believes that it will fully recover principal and
interest due on the obligations.

The Company does not utilize foreign exchange contracts or options to hedge its
foreign currency exposures.

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
During fiscal 1993, the Company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and No. 115, "Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The cumulative effects of
adopting these standards were immaterial.





Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index Of  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the years ended  September 30,
1995, 1994 and 1993


                                    CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

                                                       Pages

Report of Independent Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   September 30, 1995 and 1994

Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended
   September 30, 1995, 1994, and 1993

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity,
   for the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
   for the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


  All  schedules  have  been  omitted  as the  information  is  provided  in the
financial  statements or in related notes thereto or is not required to be filed
as the information is not applicable.









                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



         To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc.:


         We have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of Franklin
         Resources, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1995 and 1994, and
         the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and
         cash flows for each of the three  years in the period  ended  September
         30, 1995.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
         Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on
         these financial statements based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally  accepted auditing
         standards.  Those standards  require that we plan and perform the audit
         to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements
         are free of material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining,  on a
         test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures  in the
         financial  statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
         principles used and significant  estimates made by management,  as well
         as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe
         that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion,  the  financial  statements  referred to above  present
         fairly, in all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position
         of Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1995
         and 1994, and the  consolidated  results of its operations and its cash
         flows for each of the three  years in the period  ended  September  30,
         1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.






         San Francisco, California
         October 27, 1995






Consolidated Balance Sheets

September 30, 1995 and 1994 (Dollars in thousands)   1995         1994
ASSETS

Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                           $246,184     $190,415
Receivables:
 Fees from Franklin Templeton funds                  110,972       88,801
 Other                                                38,407       36,160
Investment securities, available-for-sale            208,478      153,292
Prepaid expenses and other                             7,167        8,230
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                 611,208      476,898
Banking/Finance Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                             15,515       19,961
Loans receivable, net                                450,013      391,824
Investment securities, available-for-sale             23,655       26,345
Other assets                                           6,876        5,290
TOTAL BANKING/FINANCE ASSETS                         496,059      443,420
Other Assets:
Investments:
 Investment securities, available-for-sale             15,291       9,144
 Real estate                                            8,826       9,014
Deferred costs                                         17,703       9,235
Premises and equipment, net                           118,628      94,218

Goodwill, net of $56,375 and $38,070
 accumulated amortization, respectively               660,363     678,668
Receivable from banking/finance group                 302,273     230,773
Other assets                                           14,330      17,388
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS                                  1,137,414   1,048,440
TOTAL ASSETS                                       $2,244,681  $1,968,758

THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THESE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.


Consolidated Balance Sheets
September 30, 1995 and 1994 
(Dollars in thousands, except share data)              1995         1994

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current Liabilities:
Trade payables and accrued expenses                 $117,744     $126,809
Debt payable within one year                          87,204       84,482
Dividends payable                                      8,123        6,528
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                            213,071      217,819
Banking/Finance Liabilities:
Deposits of bank account holders:
 Interest bearing demand deposits                      7,039        7,727
 Non-interest bearing demand deposits                  9,747       17,976
 Savings and time deposits                           152,588      165,195
Payable to parent                                    302,273      230,773
Other liabilities                                      2,076          973
TOTAL BANKING/FINANCE LIABILITIES                    473,723      422,644
Other Liabilities:
Long-term debt                                       382,367      383,668
Other liabilities                                     14,477       13,812
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES                              396,844      397,480
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                  1,083,638    1,037,943
Commitments (Note 9)
Stockholders' Equity:

Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 1,000,000 shares
authorized; none issued                                 --           --

Common stock, $.10 par value, 500,000,000 shares
authorized; 82,264,982 shares issued, and 80,939,611
and 81,597,450 shares outstanding, for 1995 and 1994,
respectively                                            8,226        8,226

Capital in excess of par value                         92,190       92,283
Retained earnings                                   1,091,204      855,513
Less cost of treasury stock                           (48,519)     (25,409)
Other                                                  17,942          202
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                          1,161,043      930,815
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY         $2,244,681   $1,968,758

THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THESE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation:

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries (the "Company"). The
acquired Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. ("Templeton") operations are
included from the acquisition date, October 30, 1992. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated from the consolidated financial
statements except the intercompany payable from the banking/finance group to the
parent to fund auto and credit card loans.

Foreign Currency Translation:

Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at current
exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and related revenues and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period.
Net exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are excluded from
income and are recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses are reflected in income currently.

Major Customers:

Substantially all revenues earned by the Company are from providing investment
management, underwriting, stock transfer and trust services to the Franklin
Templeton funds that operate in the United States, Canada, Europe and other
international markets under various rules and regulations set forth by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, individual state agencies and foreign
governments. All services provided to the Franklin Templeton funds are under
contracts that definitively set forth the fees to be charged for these services.
The majority of these contracts are subject to periodic review and approval by
each fund's Board of Directors/Trustees and shareholders. Currently, no fund
represents more than 10% of total revenues.

Recognition of Revenues:

Investment management, transfer, trust fees and investment income are all
accrued as earned. Underwriting commissions on the sale of Franklin Templeton
fund shares are recorded on the trade date, net of amounts paid to unaffiliated
intermediaries. Operating revenues of the banking/finance group are presented
net of interest expense and the provision for loan losses.

Interest expense:

Reported interest expense excludes interest expense attributable to the
banking/finance group, which is included in banking/finance, net and other
revenue.

Loans receivable:

Interest on auto installment loans is accrued principally using the rule of 78s
method, which approximates the interest method. Interest on all other loans is
accrued using the simple interest method.

Allowance for loan losses:

An allowance for loan losses is established as required based on historical
experience, including delinquency and loss trends. A loan is charged to the
allowance when it is deemed to be uncollectible, taking into consideration the
value of the collateral, the financial condition of the borrower and other
factors. Recoveries on loans previously charged off as uncollectible are
credited to the allowance for loan losses.

Deferred Costs:

Deferred costs result from the sale of certain U.S., Canadian and European based
Franklin Templeton funds which have deferred sales charges and distribution
fees. Amortization of such deferred costs is charged against underwriting
commission revenues on a straight-line basis over a period of up to eighteen
months for the U.S. based funds, forty months for the Canadian based funds and
four years for the European funds. Deferred costs related to the issuance of
debt are amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt.

Taxes on Income:

Effective October 1, 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for
income taxes from the income method to the liability method required by
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 109. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 109 on income in the year of
adoption was immaterial, as was the cumulative effect of the accounting change
on prior years.

Cash and Cash Equivalents:

Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks or
other high credit quality financial institutions, debt instruments with original
maturities of three months or less, and other highly liquid investments,
including money market funds, which are readily convertible into cash. Due to
the relatively short-term nature of these instruments, the carrying value
approximates fair value.

Investment Valuation:

The Company's investments in the Franklin Templeton funds and other securities
available-for-sale are carried at market value. Market values for investments in
Franklin Templeton funds are based on the last reported net asset value. Market
values for other investments are based on the last reported price on the
exchange on which they are traded. Investments not traded on an exchange are
carried at management's estimate of market value. Investments in real estate are
carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with depreciation provided
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Realized gains and losses are recognized on the specific identification method
and are included in investment income currently. Unrealized gains and losses are
reported net of tax as a separate component of stockholders' equity until
realized.

Financial Instruments
with Off-Balance Sheet Risk:

The Company is a party to interest rate swap agreements in effect on a portion
of its long-term debt. The differential to be paid or received is accrued as the
interest rates change and is recognized over the term of the agreements. The
carrying value of these instruments approximated fair value.

Premises and Equipment:

Premises and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

Goodwill:

The excess of cost over fair market value of the Company's acquisition of
Templeton is amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of forty years.
The Company has evaluated the potential impairment of goodwill on the basis of
the expected future operating cash flows to be derived from this intangible
asset in relation to the Company's carrying value and has determined that there
is no impairment. Periodically, the Company will review the carrying value of
goodwill for potential impairment.

Earnings Per Share:

Earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average
number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents (stock options and
debenture option rights) considered outstanding during each year. The weighted
average number of shares outstanding (rounded to the nearest thousand) during
1995, 1994 and 1993 was 81,243,000, 81,932,000 and 81,595,000, respectively.
Common stock equivalents (rounded to the nearest thousand) utilized in computing
earnings per share in 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 1,871,000, 1,777,000 and
1,262,000 for primary and 2,788,000, 1,777,000 and 2,117,000 for fully diluted,
respectively.

Reclassifications:

Certain amounts in the 1994 and 1993 financial statements have been reclassified
to correspond to the 1995 presentation. These reclassifications did not affect
previously reported net income or retained earnings.

2. BANKING/FINANCE GROUP LOANS
AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
The banking/finance group's loans at
September 30, 1995 and 1994 consisted of the following:

(Dollars in thousands):          1995      1994

Auto                         $400,867   $328,396
Credit card                    95,040     89,409
Real estate                     4,855      4,467
Other                           1,145      5,799
                              501,907    428,071

Unearned fees and discounts   (42,813)   (33,077)
Allowance for loan losses      (9,081)    (3,170)
Loans receivable, net        $450,013   $391,824

Activity in the banking/finance group's allowance for loan losses for the years
ended September 30, 1995, 1994, and 1993 was as follows:

(Dollars in thousands)        1995    1994     1993
Beginning balance           $3,170  $1,472   $2,055
Provision for loan losses   17,189   5,415    4,093
Loans charged off          (14,879) (4,390)  (5,273)
Recoveries                   3,601     673      597
Ending balance              $9,081  $3,170   $1,472



For the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, the interest expense of
the banking/finance group included in banking/finance, net and other revenues
were $28.6 million, $12.2 million, and $9.4 million in 1995, 1994, and 1993,
respectively.

The fair values of the banking/finance group's performing residential mortgage
loans and home equity loans are estimated using current market comparable
information for securitizable mortgages, adjusting for credit and other relevant
characteristics. The fair value of consumer loans is estimated using interest
rates that consider the current credit and interest rate risk inherent in the
loans and current economic and lending conditions. At September 30, 1995 and
1994, the carrying value of loans receivable approximated fair value.

The fair values of the banking subsidiary's deposits subject to immediate
withdrawal are equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. Fair
values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using interest rates
currently offered on time deposits with similar remaining maturities. At
September 30, 1995 and 1994, the carrying values of deposits subject to
immediate withdrawal and of fixed-rate certifcates of deposit approximated fair
value.

3. INVESTMENTS
Investments at September 30, 1995 and 1994 consisted of the following:

                       GROSS      GROSS
                    AMORTIZED  UNREALIZED  UNREALIZED    ESTIMATED
(Dollars in thousands)COST      GAINS        LOSSES       MARKET
Investment securities,
 available-for-sale:
 Franklin Templeton
 funds                    $125,253    $14,638     $(5,957)     $133,934
 Debt securities            21,031        638        (563)       21,106
 Equity securities           2,366     23,895         (68)       26,193
 Other investments          26,991        255          (1)       27,245
                          ---------------------------------------------
                          $175,641    $39,426     $(6,589)     $208,478

Banking/finance group
 investment portfolio:
 U.S. agencies securities    $6,051        $6       $(134)       $5,923
 U.S. Treasury securities    17,624        85         (88)       17,621
 Other marketable
 securities                     110         1           0           111
                            -------------------------------------------
                            $23,785       $92       $(222)      $23,655
Investment Securities,
 available-for-sale:
 Restricted securities      $14,504      $839        $(52)      $15,291
Investment securities,
 available-for-sale:
 Franklin Templeton
 funds                      $97,379     $6,547     $(6,186)     $97,740
 Debt securities             17,990        567        (121)      18,436
 Equity securities           22,818     14,300          (2)      37,116
                           --------------------------------------------
                           $138,187    $21,414     $(6,309)    $153,292

Banking/finance group
 investment portfolio:
 U.S. agencies securities    $20,765        $5       $(322)     $20,448
 U.S. Treasury securities      6,012         0        (225)       5,787
 Other marketable
 securities                      110         0           0          110
                             ------------------------------------------
                             $26,887        $5       $(547)     $26,345
Investment Securities,
 available-for-sale:
 Restricted securities        $9,607      $112       $(575)      $9,144

Investments in the Franklin Templeton funds are shares of investment companies
for which the Company acts as investment manager.

Proceeds from the sale of corporate investment securities for 1995, 1994 and
1993 were $90.9 million, $67.4 million and $57.2 million, respectively. Gains
(losses) of $2.5 million, $1.4 million and $(2.7) million were realized on these
sales for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

At September 30, 1995, debt securities of the banking/finance group's investment
portfolio at amortized cost and estimated market value have scheduled maturities
as follows:

                         AMORTIZED   ESTIMATED
(Dollars in thousands)     COST       MARKET
Maturity:
0-1 year                  $1,000     $1,000
1-5 years                 22,729     22,594
Greater than 5 years          56         61
                         ------------------
                         $23,785    $23,655

Other debt securities have scheduled maturities as follows:

                         AMORTIZED  ESTIMATED
(Dollars in thousands)     COST       MARKET
Maturity:
0-1 year                   $8,741   $8,224
1-5 years                   5,383    5,556
5-10 years                  5,731    5,981

Greater than 10 years       6,086    7,073
                          ----------------
                          $25,941  $26,834

4. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
The following is a summary of premises and equipment at September 30, 1995 and
1994:

                                    ESTIMATED
                                   USEFUL LIVES
(Dollars in thousands)             IN YEARS       1995  1994
Furniture and equipment              3-5        $88,769   $68,247
Premises and leasehold
 improvements                        5-35        70,011    55,386
Leased equipment                      5           7,456     7,256
Land                                  --          9,984     7,423
                                                -----------------
                                                176,220   138,312
Less: Accumulated depreciation
 and amortization                                (57,592) (44,094)
                                                ------------------
                                                $118,628  $94,218

5. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company conducts operations in five principal geographic areas of the world:
USA, Canada, the Bahamas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. Revenue by geographic area
includes fees and commissions charged to customers and fees charged to
affiliates. Identifiable assets are those assets used exclusively in the
operations of each geographic area.


Information is summarized below:


Summarized below are the business segments:

                                     Identifiable                 Operating
(Dollars in thousands)               Assets         Revenue       Income (loss)

Mutual funds and
 institutional management            $935,230       $837,100      $379,288
Banking/finance                      495,086        6,841         (10,217)
Real estate and other                33,313         1,862         (930)
Company totals                       $1,463,629     $845,803      $368,141
Mutual funds and
 institutional management            $917,727       $798,858      $365,566
Banking/finance                      443,420        12,625        2,537
Real estate and other                14,973         1,287         (1,402)
Company totals                       $1,376,120     $812,770      $366,701
Mutual funds and
 institutional management            $875,558       $621,943      $286,692
Banking/finance                      211,156        8,394         967
Real estate and other                44,625         1.051         (2,791)
Company totals                       $1,131,339     $631,388      $284,868

The mutual funds and institutional management segment's assets are primarily
receivables from, and investments in, Franklin Templeton funds and goodwill from
the acquisition of Templeton. The banking/finance segment's assets are primarily
investment securities and consumer loans.





6. DEBT
Debt at September 30, 1995 and 1994 was as follows:

                                      1995 WEIGHTED
                                    AVERAGE EFFECTIVE
(Dollars in thousands)                INTEREST RATE       1995  1994

Debt payable within one year:

  Current maturities of other
 notes and capital lease
 obligations                                 --         $1,283   $1,582

  Commercial paper                         5.87%        85,921   82,900

Total debt payable within
 one year                                              $87,204  $84,482

Long-term debt:

 Notes payable                             6.50%       $80,000  $80,000

 Commercial paper issued
 under long-term borrowing
 agreements                                5.87%       150,000  150,000

 Subordinated debentures                   6.65%       150,000  150,000

 Other notes and capital lease
 obligations                                             2,367    3,668

Total long-term debt                                  $382,367 $383,668

Maturities of long-term debt excluding other notes and capital lease obligations
are as follows (in thousands):

                     1996     $230,000
               After 2000      150,000
                              -------- 
                              $380,000

During 1994, the Company repaid $296 million in outstanding senior bank debt
with the proceeds from $300 million in commercial paper offerings. The Company
has two credit agreements with a group of commercial banks that will allow it at
its option to refinance the commercial paper up to five years from the closing
date, May 19, 1994. In accordance with the Company's intention and ability to
refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, $150 million of the
outstanding balance has been classified long-term. The credit agreements include
various restrictive covenants, including: a capitalization ratio, interest
coverage ratio, minimum working capital and limitation on additional debt. The
Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 1995.

The Company has interest rate swap agreements which effectively fix interest
rates on $155.0 million of commercial paper over a three to forty-eight month
period from the balance sheet date. The fixed rates of interest range from
5.015% to 6.451%.

During 1994, the Company initiated a $300 million medium-term note program.
Notes totaling $80 million were issued maturing during fiscal year 1996. In
accordance with the Company's intention and ability to refinance these
obligations on a long-term basis, the entire balance maturing in 1996 has been
classified long-term.

The subordinated debentures mature on August 3, 2002 and have a fixed interest
rate of 6.25% per annum. Under certain circumstances, all or a portion of the
debentures could pay additional interest, increasing to a maximum rate of 7.77%.

The subordinated debentures have non-detachable option rights which allow the
holder to purchase common shares of the Company at any time during the term of
the debentures, for cash or in redemption of the debentures. The Company may
redeem the debentures any time after August 3, 1997, or sooner, to the extent
options are exercised. The maximum number of shares purchasable under the option
rights was 5,119,454 shares at September 30, 1995. The option price ranges from
$29.30 to $31.77 per share and the redemption price ranges from 92.22% to 100%
of face value, over the term of the debentures.

The fair values of long-term debt are estimated using interest rates currently
offered to the Company for debt with similar remaining maturities. The fair
value of the option rights attached to the subordinated debentures is calculated
based on the Company's closing stock price and the option and redemption prices
at the reporting date. At September 30, 1995, and 1994, the carrying values of
long-term debt approximated fair value.

7. INVESTMENT INCOME

(Dollars in thousands)                    1995       1994     1993
Dividends                                $9,648     $10,969   $11,162
Interest                                 11,440       6,538     3,678
Realized gains (losses),
 net                                      2,499       1,396       809
Foreign exchange gains (losses), net       (355)       (420)     (174)
Partnership income                        3,550         840     1,399
Other income                              2,891       3,380     1,416
                                        -----------------------------
                                        $29,673     $22,703   $18,290

Substantially all of the Company's dividend income was generated by investments
in the Franklin Templeton funds.

8. TAXES ON INCOME
Taxes on income for the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993 are
comprised of the following:

(Dollars in thousands)                  1995      1994     1993

Current:
Federal                               $76,350     $87,951   $74,958
State                                  19,969      22,257    17,807
Foreign                                20,018      13,717     4,342
Deferred                                1,373     (12,712)    1,769

Total provision                      $117,710    $111,213   $98,876

Included in income before taxes is $161.7 million, $115.3 million and $31.6
million of foreign income for the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.

The major components of the net deferred tax asset (liability) as of September
30, 1995 and 1994 were as follows :

(Dollars in thousands)                       1995       1994

Deferred tax assets:
State taxes expensed currently, deductible
 in following year                          $5,543     $6,089
Temporary differences on investment losses   3,278      3,278
Loan loss reserves                           3,868        637
Deferred compensation                          486      5,062
Restricted stock compensation plan          17,700     10,150
Net operating loss carryforwards            16,180      8,121
Other                                        1,478      4,101
Total deferred tax assets                   48,533     37,438
Valuation allowance for net operating
 loss carryforwards                        (16,180)    (8,121)
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation
 allowance                                  32,353     29,317
Deferred tax liabilities:
Temporary differences on partnership
 earnings                                    5,516      4,489
Capitalized compensation costs               6,992      5,681
Unrealized gains on securities              11,942      5,845
Depreciation on fixed assets                 4,963      3,103
Prepaid expenses                             3,309      2,381
Other                                        1,899      4,500
Total deferred tax liabilities              34,621     25,999
Net deferred tax asset (liability)         ($2,268)    $3,318

There are approximately $17.8 million of foreign net operating loss
carryforwards which do not expire. In addition, there are approximately $149.7
million in state net operating loss carryforwards that expire between 2005 and
2010. A valuation allowance has been recognized to offset the related deferred
tax assets due to the uncertainty of realizing the benefit of the loss
carryforwards.

A substantial portion of the undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries has been reinvested and is not expected to be remitted to the
parent company. Accordingly, no U.S. Federal or state income taxes have been
provided thereon. At September 30, 1995, the cumulative amount of reinvested
income for which no U.S. taxes have been provided is approximately $218 million.
Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability
related to such reinvested income is not practicable because of the complexities
associated with this hypothetical calculation; however, foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.

The following is a reconciliation between the amount of tax expense at the
federal statutory rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations for the
years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively:

(Dollars in thousands)                  1995       1994     1993
U.S. Federal statutory rate             35%          35%   34.75%
Federal taxes at statutory rate     $135,329    $126,882    $95,353
State taxes, net of federal
 tax effect                           12,747      12,944     11,166
Foreign earnings subject to
 reduced tax rates for which
 no U.S. tax is provided             (32,956)    (25,194)    (6,591)
Other                                  2,590      (3,419)    (1,052)
Actual tax provision                $117,710    $111,213    $98,876
Effective tax rate                     30.4%       30.7%      36.0%

9. COMMITMENTS
The Company leases office space (including space from an unconsolidated
affiliate) and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at various
dates through fiscal year 2001. Lease expenses were $21.8 million, $15.1 million
and $12.1 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. At September 30, 1995, remaining operating lease commitments are
as follows (in thousands):

                     1996     $15,992
                     1997      14,725
                     1998      13,324
                     1999      12,303
                     2000       9,526
               Thereafter       7,890
                              -------
                              $73,760

The Company has also entered into capital leases for certain equipment
(primarily computer equipment) with a cost of $7.5 million and accumulated
amortization of $4.4 million at September 30, 1995. Future minimum payments
under such leases as of September 30, 1995 are as follows (in thousands):

                      1996    $2,078
                      1997     1,213
                      1998       359
                      1999        13
                              ------
                               3,663

     Less imputed interest       291
                              ------
                       Net    $3,372

At September 30, 1995, the Company's banking/finance group had commitments to
extend credit as follows (in thousands):

       Credit card lines  $480,872
Real estate equity lines     1,500
          Consumer lines       389
                          --------
                          $482,761

The Company through certain subsidiaries acts as fiduciary for retirement and
employee benefit plans. At September 30, 1995 assets held in trust were
approximately $10.3 billion.

10. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
During the years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, the Company paid
dividends to common stockholders of $0.40, $0.32, and $0.28 per share,
respectively.

11. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS
The stockholders have adopted stock option plans which provide for the grant of
options to purchase up to 2,358,250 shares of the Company's common stock to
officers and other key employees of the Company. Terms and conditions (including
price, exercise date and number of shares) are determined by the Board of
Directors, which administers the plans. Information on the plans for the three
years ended September 30, 1995, adjusted to reflect the 1992 stock split, is as
follows:

(Shares and total            NUMBER       OPTION PRICE
dollars in thousands)       OF SHARES      PER SHARE   TOTAL

Outstanding options at
 October 1, 1992              217       $5.75 to $15.25  $1,531
Granted                       170      $14.04 to $30.04   3,463
Exercised                    (212)      $5.75 to $15.25  (1,455)
Outstanding options at
 September 30, 1993           175       $8.96 to $30.04   3,539
Exercised                     (11)      $8.96 to $30.04    (158)
Outstanding options at
 September 30, 1994           164      $14.04 to $30.04   3,381
Granted                        79      $36.82 to $45.13   3,099
Exercised                     (18)     $17.30 to $30.00    (375)
Outstanding options at
 September 30, 1995           225      $14.04 to $45.13  $6,105

There were 1,099,123 unoptioned shares available for the granting of options
under the plans at September 30, 1995. The Company recognizes a charge to income
in connection with the plans to the extent that the options granted are below
the fair market value of the common stock at the time of grant.

12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT AND INCENTIVE PLANS
The Company has defined contribution profit sharing plans covering all eligible
U.S. employees who are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
Contributions are based on the Company's prior year's results of operations and
are made at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company
contributed $12.8 million, $9.1 million and $6.5 million during 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively, that related to the 1994, 1993 and 1992 plan years.

The Company sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution pension plan in which certain
U.S. employees are eligible to participate. The Company funds the 401(k) plan by
matching employee contributions, subject to statutory limitations. Employer
contributions were $1.1 million, $1.0 million and $0.8 million for each of the
years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

In 1994, the Company implemented an annual incentive plan which provides
eligible employees payment of both cash and restricted stock. The costs
associated with the annual incentive plan are charged to income currently. Costs
associated with restricted stock awards granted prior to the adoption of the
annual incentive plan are amortized on a straight-line basis to the date the
stock vests with the employees. The unamortized cost of the restricted shares of
$5.2 million as of September 30, 1995, is shown as a reduction of stockholders'
equity.

13. QUARTERLY RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

(Dollars in thousands,                 Fiscal Quarter
except per share amounts)  FIRST    SECOND      THIRD FOURTH

Revenues                 $208,233  $199,781  $212,718  $225,071
Net income                $63,304   $63,040   $69,029   $73,572
Earnings per share:
 Primary                     $.76     $.76       $.84      $.89
 Fully diluted               $.76     $.76       $.83      $.88
Revenues                 $195,678  $211,547  $200,676   $204,869
Net income                $59,001   $68,601   $60,023    $63,683
Earnings per share:
 Primary                     $.70      $.82      $.72       $.76
 Fully diluted               $.70      $.82      $.72       $.76
Revenues                 $124,592  $151,273  $160,381    $195,142
Net income                $34,764   $42,233   $44,798     $53,727
Earnings per share:
 Primary                     $.43      $.51      $.54        $.64
 Fully diluted               $.43      $.51      $.54        $.62


14. MERGER WITH TEMPLETON
On October 30, 1992, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and
liabilities of Templeton, which through its subsidiaries was the manager of the
Templeton Family of Funds and private accounts. The acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase, with a purchase price of approximately $786 million of which
approximately $713 million was allocated to goodwill. The purchase was financed
by $360 million in bank debt, $150 million in subordinated debentures with
option rights, $189 million in cash and $87 million in the Company's common
stock.

Pro forma results for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1993, as if the acquisition had been made on October 1, 1992, are not
presented as they would not be materially different from the reported results
which include the operations of Templeton for the period from October 30, 1992
to September 30, 1993.








                                    PART III


Items 10-13 are  incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be mailed to  stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held January 25, 1996.




                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)  Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statements
        filed as part of this report.

   (2)  Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statement
        schedules filed as part of this report.

   (3)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

     (3)(i)(a)    Registrant's  Certificate of Incorporation,  as filed November
                  28, 1969,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (3)(i) to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

     (3)(i)(b)    Registrant's   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                  Incorporation,   as  filed  March  1,  1985,  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(c)    Registrant's   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                  Incorporation,   as  filed  April  1,  1987,  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(d)    Registrant's   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                  Incorporation,  as filed  February  2, 1994,  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(ii)      Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10
                  (File No. 06952), incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(v)
                  to the 1994 Annual Report

       10.1       Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth
                  Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

       10.2       Representative Business Management Agreement between Templeton
                  Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Global Investors, Inc.
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the 1993
                  Annual Report

       10.3       Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton
                  Growth Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor
                  Services, Inc. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                  the 1993 Annual Report

       10.4       Representative Investment Management Agreement between
                  Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith &
                  Hansberger Ltd. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                  the 1993 Annual Report

       10.5       Representative  Management  Agreement between Advisers and the
                  Franklin Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10.1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the
                  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1992  (the  "1992  Annual
                  Report")

       10.6       Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan between  Distributors
                  and the Franklin Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.3 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.7       Registrant's   Amended  Annual  Incentive   Compensation  Plan
                  approved  January 24, 1995  incorporated  by  reference to the
                  Company's Proxy Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A on
                  December  28, 1994 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of
                  Stockholders held on January 24, 1995.

       10.8       Registrant's  Universal  Stock Plan approved  January 19, 1994
                  incorporated   by  reference  to  the  Company's   1995  Proxy
                  Statement  filed under cover of Schedule  14A on December  29,
                  1993 in  connection  with its Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders
                  held on January 19, 1994.

       10.9       Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement
                  between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and Franklin
                  Federal  Tax-Free  Income Fund,  incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the  quarterly  period ended June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995
                  Quarterly Report")

       10.10      Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares
                  between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                  Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.11      Representative Investment Management Agreement between
                  Templeton Global Strategy SICAV and
                  Templeton Investment Management Limited, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                  June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.12      Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,
                  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and
                  BAC Corp. Securities, incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995
                  Quarterly Report

       10.13      Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                  Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.14      Representative Investment Management Agreement between
                  Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.
                  and Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.15      Representative Investment Management Agreement between
                  Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.
                  and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.16      Representative   Amended  and  Restated   Transfer  Agent
                  and  Shareholder Services Agreement between  
                  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and
                  Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995

       10.17      Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement
                  between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                  Custodian Funds, Inc.

       10.18      Representative Class II Distribution Plan between
                  Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and
                  Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series

       10.19      Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                  Distributors, Inc. and Dealer

       10.20      Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for
                  Accounts of Bank and Trust Company Customers, effective
                  July 1, 1995

       10.21      Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Franklin Value
                  Investors  Trust,  on behalf of Franklin  MicroCap Value Fund,
                  and Franklin Advisers, Inc.

       10.22      Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,
                  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor

       10.23      Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between
                  Templeton Funds, Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment
                  Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995

       10.24      Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
                  Franklin/Templeton Investor Services,
                  Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment Services (Asia)
                  Limited, dated September 18, 1995

       12         Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

       21         List of Subsidiaries

       23         Consent of Independent Accountant

       27         Financial Data Schedule

(b)       A Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 27, 1995 was filed on
          July 27, 1995 attaching Registrant's press release dated
          July 27, 1995 under Items 5 and 7.

(c)       See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)       No separate financial statements are required; schedules are
          included in Item 8.
 



SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                          FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Charles B. Johnson
                          Charles B. Johnson, President


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Charles B. Johnson
                             Charles B. Johnson, Principal
                              Executive Officer and Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Harmon E. Burns
                             Harmon E. Burns, Executive Vice
                              President-Legal and Adminis-
                              trative,Secretary and Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Martin L. Flanagan
                             Martin L. Flanagan, Treasurer
                             and Chief Financial Officer

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Kenneth A. Lewis
                             Kenneth A. Lewis, Controller

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Judson R. Grosvenor
                             Judson R. Grosvenor, Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/ F. Warren Hellman
                             F. Warren Hellman, Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/ Charles E. Johnson
                             Charles E. Johnson, Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
                             Rupert H.Johnson, Jr., Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Harry O. Kline
                             Harry O. Kline, Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Louis E. Woodworth
                             Louis E. Woodworth, Director

Date:  December 29, 1995  By  /s/  Peter M. Sacerdote
                             Peter M. Sacerdote, Director



                                 Exhibit Index

     ITEM

(3)(i)(a)       Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November 28,
                1969,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  (3)(i)  to  the
                Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

(3)(i)(b)       Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of   Certificate  of
                Incorporation, as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

(3)(i)(c)       Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of   Certificate  of
                Incorporation, as filed April 1, 1987, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

(3)(i)(d)       Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of   Certificate  of
                Incorporation,  as  filed  February  2,  1994,  incorporated  by
                reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

(3)(ii)         Registrant's  By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10
                (File No. 06952),  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
                (3)(v) to the 1994 Annual Report

10.1            Representative  Distribution  Plan between  Templeton Growth
                Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's
                Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

10.2            Representative Business Management Agreement between Templeton
                Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Global Investors, Inc.
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the 1993 Annual
                Report

10.3            Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth
                Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                1993 Annual Report

10.4            Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith and Hansberger Ltd.
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
                1993 Annual Report

10.5            Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Advisers and the
                Franklin  Group of Funds  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                10.1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

10.6            Representative  Distribution 12b-1 Plan between Distributors and
                the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.3 to the 1992 Annual Report

10.7            Registrant's Amended Annual Incentive Compensation Plan approved
                January 24, 1995  incorporated  by  reference  to the  Company's
                Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of Schedule  14A on December
                28, 1994 in connection  with its Annual Meeting of  Stockholders
                held on January 24, 1995.

10.8            Registrant's  Universal  Stock Plan  approved  January  19, 1994
                incorporated  by reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement
                filed  under  cover of  Schedule  14A on  December  29,  1993 in
                connection  with its  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  held on
                January 19, 1994.

10.9            Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement
                between  Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,  Inc.  and  Franklin
                Federal  Tax-Free  Income  Fund,  incorporated  by  reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the  quarterly  period  ended  June 30,  1995  (the  "June  1995
                Quarterly Report")

10.10           Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.11           Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Global Strategy SICAV and
                Templeton   Investment   Management  Limited,   incorporated  by
                reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.12           Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton,
                Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and
                BAC Corp. Securities, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
                to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.13           Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.14           Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and
                Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the
                June 1995 Quarterly Report

10.15           Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly
                Report

10.16           Representative Amended and Restated Transfer Agent and
                Shareholder Services Agreement between
                Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Franklin
                Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995

10.17           Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement
                between Franklin/Templeton
                Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc.

10.18           Representative Class II Distribution Plan between
                Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and
                Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series

10.19           Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                Distributors, Inc. and Dealer

10.20           Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement
                for Accounts of Bank and Trust Company
                Customers, effective July 1, 1995

10.21           Representative Management Agreement between
                Franklin Value Investors Trust, on behalf of
                Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and Franklin Advisers, Inc.

10.22           Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between
                Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and
                Sub-Distributor

10.23           Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement
                between Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and
                Templeton Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited, dated
                September 18, 1995

10.24           Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
                Franklin/Templeton Investor Services,
                Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment
                Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995

12              Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21              List of Subsidiaries

23              Consent of Independent Accountant

27              Financial Data Schedule



                                  EXHIBIT 10.16


                   FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON INVESTOR SERVICES, INC.
                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                TRANSFER AGENT AND SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AGREEMENT

Investment Company:     Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc.
Date:                    As of  July 1, 1995

     The  parties to this  Agreement  are the  Investment  Company  named  above
("Investment  Company"), an open-end investment company registered as such under
the  Investment  Company  Act of 1940 ("1940  Act"),  on behalf of each class of
shares  of each  series  of the  Investment  Company  which  now  exists  or may
hereafter be created (collectively, the "Funds") and FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON INVESTOR
SERVICES,  INC. ("FTIS"), a registered transfer agent formerly known as Franklin
Administrative  Services,  Inc.  This  Agreement  supersedes  prior  Shareholder
Services Agreements between the parties, as stated below in section 16(d).

     W I T N E S E T H:

     That for and in consideration of the mutual promises hereinafter set forth,
the Investment Company and FTIS agree as follows:

     1.  Definitions.  Whenever used in this Agreement,  the following words and
phrases,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  shall  have the  following
meanings:

          (a) "Articles" shall mean the Articles of  Incorporation,  Declaration
of Trust or Agreement of Limited Partnership,  as appropriate, of the Investment
Company as the same may be amended from time to time;

          (b) "Authorized Person" shall be deemed to include any person, whether
or not such  person is an officer or employee of the  Investment  Company,  duly
authorized to give Oral  Instructions  or Written  Instructions on behalf of the
Investment  Company,  as indicated in a resolution of the  Investment  Company's
Board  which  was  valid at the time of this  Agreement,  or as  indicated  in a
certificate furnished to FTIS pursuant to Section 4(c) hereof;

          (c) "Board" shall mean the Investment  Company's Board of Directors,
Board of Trustees or Managing General Partners, as appropriate;

          (d)  "Custodian"  shall  mean a  custodian  and any  sub-custodian  of
securities and other property which the Investment Company may from time to time
deposit,  or cause to be  deposited  or held  under the name or  account of such
custodian pursuant to the Custody Agreement;

          (e) "Oral  Instructions"  shall mean instructions  (including  without
limitation  instructions  received by telephone,  facsimile,  electronic mail or
other electronic mail),  other than written  instructions,  actually received by
FTIS from a person reasonably believed by FTIS to be an Authorized Person;

          (f)  "Shares"  shall  mean  shares  of each  class of  capital  stock,
beneficial interest or limited  partnership  interest,  as appropriate,  of each
series of the Investment Company; and

          (g) "Written  Instructions" shall mean a written  communication signed
by a person reasonably  believed by FTIS to be an Authorized Person and actually
received by FTIS.

     2.  Appointment  of FTIS. The  Investment  Company hereby  appoints FTIS as
transfer  agent for  Shares  of the  Investment  Company,  as  service  agent in
connection  with  dividend  and  distribution  functions,   and  as  shareholder
servicing agent for the Investment  Company,  and FTIS accepts such  appointment
and agrees to perform the following duties.

     3.     Compensation.

          (a) The Investment Company will compensate FTIS for the performance of
its  obligations  hereunder in accordance with the fees set forth in the written
schedule of fees annexed hereto as Schedule A and incorporated herein.  Schedule
A does not include  out-of-pocket  disbursements of FTIS for which FTIS shall be
separately  reimbursed by the Investment Company.  FTIS will bill the Investment
Company  as soon  as  practicable  after  the end of  each  calendar  month,  in
accordance with Schedule A. The Investment Company will promptly pay to FTIS the
amount of such billing.

          Out-of-pocket  disbursements  shall include,  but shall not be limited
to, the items  specified  in the  written  schedule  of  out-of-pocket  expenses
annexed hereto as Schedule B and incorporated herein.  Unspecified out-of-pocket
expenses shall be limited to those out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by
FTIS in the performance of its obligations hereunder, subject to approval by the
Board.  Reimbursement by the Investment Company for expenses incurred by FTIS in
any month shall be made as soon as practicable  after the receipt of an itemized
bill from FTIS.

          (b) Any compensation  agreed to hereunder may be adjusted from time to
time  by  mutual  agreement  by  attaching  revised  Schedules  A or  B to  this
Agreement.

     4.  Documents.  In connection  with the appointment of FTIS, the Investment
Company shall, within a reasonable period of time for FTIS to prepare to perform
its duties hereunder, deliver to FTIS the following documents:

     (a) If applicable, specimens of the certificates for the Shares;

     (b)  All  account   application  forms  and  other  documents  relating  to
Shareholder  accounts  or to  any  plan,  program  or  service  offered  by  the
Investment Company;

     (c)  A  certificate   identifying  the  Authorized   Persons  and  specimen
signatures of Authorized Persons who will sign Written Instructions; and

     (d) All documents  and papers  necessary  under the laws of the  Investment
Company's state of domicile, under the Investment Company's Articles, and as may
be required for the due performance of FTIS's duties under this Agreement or for
the due performance of additional duties as may from time to time be agreed upon
between the Investment Company and FTIS.

     5.  Duties  of  the  Transfer   Agent.   FTIS  shall  be  responsible   for
administering and/or performing transfer agent functions;  for acting as service
agent in connection with dividend and distribution functions; and for performing
shareholder  account and  administrative  agent functions in connection with the
issuance, transfer,  exchange,  redemption or repurchase (including coordination
with the  Custodian)  of  Shares.  FTIS  shall be bound to follow  its usual and
customary operating  standards and procedures,  as they may be amended from time
to time,  and each current  prospectus  and Statement of Additional  Information
(hereafter,  collectively,  the "prospectus") of the Investment Company. Without
limiting the  generality of the  foregoing,  FTIS agrees to perform the specific
duties listed on Schedule C.

     The  duties to be  performed  by FTIS  shall not  include  the  engagement,
supervision or compensation of any service  providers,  or any  registrations or
fees of any kind, which are required by the laws of any foreign country in which
the Fund may choose to invest portfolio assets or sell Shares.


     6. (a) Distributions  Payable in Shares. In the event that the Board of the
Investment  Company  shall  declare  a  distribution   payable  in  Shares,  the
Investment  Company  shall  deliver to FTIS written  notice of such  declaration
signed on behalf of the  Investment  Company by an officer  thereof,  upon which
FTIS shall be entitled to rely for all  purposes,  certifying  (i) the number of
Shares involved,  and (ii) that all appropriate  action has been taken to effect
such distribution.

          (b) Distributions  Payable in Cash;  Redemption Payments. In the event
that the Board of the Investment Company shall declare a distribution payable in
cash,  the  Investment  Company  shall  deliver to FTIS  written  notice of such
declaration  signed on behalf of the Investment  Company by an officer  thereof,
upon which FTIS shall be entitled to rely for all purposes,  certifying  (i) the
amount per share to be  distributed,  (ii) the record and payment  dates for the
distribution,  and (iii)  that all  appropriate  action has been taken to effect
such  distribution.  Once the amount and validity of any dividend or  redemption
payments to  shareholders  have been  determined,  the Investment  Company shall
transfer  the  payment  amounts  from the  Investment  Company's  accounts to an
account  or  accounts  held  in the  name  of  FTIS,  as  paying  agent  for the
shareholders,  in accordance with any applicable  laws or regulations,  and FTIS
shall promptly cause payments to be made to the shareholders.

     7.  Recordkeeping and Other  Information.  FTIS shall create,  maintain and
preserve all necessary records in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations.  Such records are the property of the Investment Company,  and FTIS
will  promptly  surrender  them to the  Investment  Company upon request or upon
termination of this  Agreement.  In the event of such a request or  termination,
FTIS shall be entitled to make and retain copies of all records surrendered, and
to be reimbursed by the  Investment  Company for  reasonable  expenses  actually
incurred in making such copies.  FTIS will take  reasonable  actions to maintain
the confidentiality of the Investment Company's records,  which may nevertheless
be  disclosed  to the extent  required  by law or by this  Agreement,  or to the
extent permitted by the Investment Company.

     8. Other  Duties.  In  addition,  FTIS shall  perform such other duties and
functions,  and shall be paid such amounts therefor, as may from time to time be
agreed upon in writing  between  the  Investment  Company  and FTIS.  Such other
duties and  functions  shall be reflected in a written  amendment to Schedule C,
and the compensation for such other duties and functions shall be reflected in a
written amendment to Schedule A.

     9.     Reliance by Transfer Agent; Instructions.

          (a) FTIS will be protected in acting upon Written or Oral Instructions
reasonably  believed  to  have  been  executed  or  orally  communicated  by  an
Authorized  Person  and will not be held to have any  notice  of any  change  of
authority of any person until receipt of a Written  Instruction  thereof from an
officer of the  Investment  Company.  FTIS will also be protected in  processing
Share  certificates  which it  reasonably  believes to bear the proper manual or
facsimile  signatures of the officers of the  Investment  Company and the proper
countersignature of FTIS.

          (b) At any  time  FTIS  may  apply  to any  Authorized  Person  of the
Investment  Company  for  Written  Instructions,  or  may  seek  advice  at  the
Investment Company's expense from legal counsel for the Investment Company, with
respect to any matter arising in connection with this Agreement.  FTIS shall not
be liable for any action  taken or not taken or  suffered by it in good faith in
accordance  with such Written  Instructions or in accordance with the opinion of
counsel for the Investment Company.  Written Instructions requested by FTIS will
be provided by the Investment Company within a reasonable period of time.

     10. Acts of God, etc. FTIS will not be liable or responsible  for delays or
errors by reason of circumstances beyond its control, including acts of civil or
military authority, national emergencies,  labor difficulties,  fire, mechanical
breakdown  beyond its control,  earthquake,  flood or catastrophe,  acts of God,
insurrection,  war,  riots or  failure  beyond its  control  of  transportation,
communication or power supply.

     11. Duty of Care and  Indemnification.  FTIS will  indemnify the Investment
Company against and hold it harmless from any and all losses,  claims,  damages,
liabilities  or  expenses  (including  reasonable  counsel  fees  and  expenses)
resulting  from  any  claim,  demand,  action  or suit  resulting  from  willful
misfeasance,  bad faith or gross negligence on the part of FTIS, and arising out
of, or in connection  with, its duties  hereunder.  However,  FTIS shall have no
liability  for or obligation to indemnify  the  Investment  Company  against any
losses, claims,  damages,  liabilities or expenses (including reasonable counsel
fees and expenses)  incurred by the  Investment  Company as a result of: (i) any
action taken in accordance  with Written or Oral  Instructions;  (ii) any action
taken in accordance with written or oral advice  reasonably  believed by FTIS to
have been given by counsel for the Investment Company; (iii) any action taken as
a result of any error or  omission in any record  (including  but not limited to
magnetic tapes, computer printouts, hard copies and microfilm copies) delivered,
or caused to be delivered by the Investment  Company to FTIS in connection  with
this  Agreement;  or (iv)  any  action  taken  in  accordance  with  shareholder
instructions  which meet the  standards  described in the  Investment  Company's
current  prospectus,  including without  limitation oral instructions which meet
the standards  described in the section of the prospectus dealing with telephone
transactions,  so long as FTIS believes  such  instructions  to be genuine.  The
obligations  of  the  parties  hereto  under  this  Section  shall  survive  the
termination of this Agreement.

     12.     Term and Termination.

          (a) This  Agreement  shall be effective  as of the date first  written
above,  shall continue  through December 31, 1996, and thereafter shall continue
automatically  for successive annual periods ending on December 31 of each year,
provided such  continuance  is  specifically  approved at least  annually by the
Investment Company's Board.

          (b) Either party hereto may terminate  this Agreement by giving to the
other party a notice in writing  specifying the date of such termination,  which
shall be not less than 60 days after the date of receipt  of such  notice.  Upon
such  termination,  FTIS will (i) deliver to such  successor a certified list of
shareholders  of the  Investment  Company  (with  names  and  addresses)  and an
historical  record of the account of each  Shareholder  and the status  thereof;
(ii) surrender all other relevant  records in accordance  with section 7 of this
Agreement,  above,  and (iii)  cooperate  in the  transfer  of such  duties  and
responsibilities,  including  provisions for assistance from FTIS's personnel in
the  establishment  of  books,  records  and  other  data by such  successor  or
successors. FTIS shall be entitled to charge the Investment Company a reasonable
fee for services  rendered  and expenses  actually  incurred in  performing  its
duties under this paragraph.


     13. Amendment.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified in any manner
except by a written agreement executed by both parties.


     14.  Subcontracting.  The  Investment  Company agrees that FTIS may, in its
discretion,  subcontract for all or any portion of the services  described under
this  Agreement or the Schedules  hereto;  provided that the  appointment of any
such agent shall not relieve FTIS of its responsibilities hereunder.

     15.     Data Processing System, Program and Information

          (a) The  Investment  Company  shall  not,  solely  by  virtue  of this
Agreement,  obtain any rights, title and interest in and to the computer systems
and  programs,  including  all  related  documentation,   employed  by  FTIS  in
connection with rendering services hereunder; provided however, that the records
prepared,  maintained and preserved by FTIS pursuant to this Agreement  shall be
the property of the Investment Company.

          (b) Any modifications,  changes and improvements in the automatic data
processing  system (the  "System")  or in the manner in which the  services  are
rendered  shall be made or  provided  as  follows,  and  provided  further  that
modifications  for which the  Investment  Company  will be  required to bear any
expenses shall be made only as set forth herein.

               (i) FTIS shall, at no expense to the Investment Company, make any
revisions  in the System  necessary  to (1)  perform the  services  which it has
contracted  to perform  and (2) create and  maintain  the  records  which it has
contracted to create and maintain  hereunder or (3) enhance or update the System
to the extent and in the manner necessary to maintain said System.  However,  if
specific reprogramming,  coding or other changes are necessary in the records of
the  Investment  Company or in its  shareholder  accounts in order to complete a
system  revision,  the costs for  completing  work  specific  to the  Investment
Company  shall be subject to a subsequent  agreement  between the  parties.  The
System is at all times to be competitive with that which is generally  available
to the mutual fund industry from transfer agents.

               (ii) To the extent  that the System is  modified  to comply  with
changes in the accounting or  record-keeping  rules  applicable to mutual funds,
the Investment  Company agrees to pay a reasonable pro rata portion of the costs
of the design, revision and programming of the System;  provided,  however, that
if the Investment Company's pro rata portion exceeds $1,000 per 12 month period,
the Investment  Company's  obligation to pay a reasonable pro rata portion shall
be conditioned upon FTIS's having obtained prior Written  Instructions  from the
Investment  Company for any charge. The determination that such modifications or
revisions are  necessary,  and that the System as so modified  produces  records
which  comply with the  record-keeping  requirements,  as  amended,  shall be by
mutual agreement; provided, however, that upon written request by the Investment
Company,  FTIS will provide the  Investment  Company  with a written  opinion of
counsel to FTIS to the effect that the modifications were required by changes in
the applicable  laws or regulations and that the System,  as modified,  complies
with the laws or  regulations  as amended.  Upon  completion of the changes FTIS
shall render a statement to the Investment Company, in reasonably detailed form,
identifying the nature of the revisions,  the services,  expenses and costs, and
the basis for determining the Investment  Company's reasonable pro rata portion.
Any  determination  by FTIS of the  Investment  Company's pro rata portion based
upon the ratio of the number of shareholder  accounts of the Investment  Company
to the total  number of  shareholder  accounts  of all  clients  for which  FTIS
provides  comparable  services shall  conclusively  be presumed to be reasonable
unless  the nature of the  change to the  System  relates  to  certain  types of
shareholder accounts, in which case the pro rata portion will be determined on a
mutually agreeable basis.

               (iii) If system  improvements  are  requested  by the  Investment
Company and are not otherwise  required under this subsection  15(b), FTIS shall
be entitled to request a reasonable fee before agreeing to make the improvements
and shall be entitled to refuse to make any  requested  improvements  which FTIS
reasonably  believes to be incompatible with its systems  providing  services to
other funds.

     16.     Miscellaneous.

          (a) Any notice or other  instrument  authorized  or  required  by this
Agreement  to be given in  writing  to the  Investment  Company or FTIS shall be
sufficiently  given if  addressed to that party and received by it at its office
at the place  described in the  Investment  Company's  most recent  registration
statement  or at such  other  place as it may  from  time to time  designate  in
writing.

          (b) This  Agreement  shall  extend  to and shall be  binding  upon the
parties hereto, and their respective successors and assigns; provided,  however,
that this Agreement  shall not be assignable by either party without the written
consent of the other party.

          (c) This Agreement  shall be construed in accordance  with the laws of
the State of California  applicable to contracts  between  California  residents
which are to be performed primarily within California.

          (d) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each
of which  shall be  deemed  to be an  original;  but  such  counterparts  shall,
together,  constitute only one instrument.  This Agreement  supersedes all prior
Shareholder  Services  Agreements between the parties,  and supersedes all prior
agreements between the parties relating to the subject matters of this Agreement
to the extent they are inconsistent with this Agreement.

          (e) The captions of this  Agreement  are included for  convenience  of
reference only and in no way define or delimit any of the  provisions  hereof or
otherwise affect their construction or effect.

          (f) It is understood and expressly stipulated that neither the holders
of Shares of the Investment Company nor any Director, officer, agent or employee
of the Investment  Company shall be personally liable  hereunder,  nor shall any
resort be had to other  private  property for the  satisfaction  of any claim or
obligation hereunder, but the Investment Company only shall be liable.

     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this  Agreement to be
executed by their respective corporate officers thereunder duly authorized as of
the day and year first above written.


                 FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS,        FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON
                           INC.                INVESTOR SERVICES, INC.



BY:             _______________________       _____________________
NAME:           Deborah R. Gatzek             Frank J. Isola
TITLE:          Vice President and            President
                Assistant Secretary








                                   Schedule A


FEES

Shareholder account maintenance (per annum,
pro-rated payable monthly)

Money Market Funds                                   $ 18.00
Other Funds - Monthly Dividends                      $ 11.00
Other Funds - Less Frequent Dividends                $ 10.00








                                   Schedule B


OUT-OF-POCKET EXPENSES

     The  Investment  Company  shall  reimburse  FTIS monthly for the  following
out-of-pocket expenses:

     o     postage, mailing and freight
     o     forms for shareholder transactions and
               shareholder communications
     o     outgoing wire charges
     o     telephone
     o     ACH and Federal Reserve charges for check
               clearance and wire transfers
     o     magnetic tape (or other means for storing
               information electronically)
     o     retention of records
     o     microfilm/microfiche
     o     stationery for shareholder mailings
     o     insurance against loss of Share certificates
               when in transit
     o     if applicable, terminals, transmitting lines and
               any expenses incurred in connection with
               such terminals and lines
     o     all other miscellaneous expenses reasonably
               incurred by FTIS in the performance of its
               obligations under the Agreement
     o     NSCC Networking/Commission Settlement Expenses

     This  Schedule B may be amended by FTIS upon not less than 30 days' written
notice to the Investment Company, subject to approval by the Board.





                                   Schedule C

DUTIES

AS TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE INVESTMENT COMPANY, FTIS WILL:

     o    Upon receipt of proper authorization,  record the issuance and sale of
          Investment  Company  Shares in its transfer  records in such names and
          for such number of  authorized  but  hitherto  unissued  Shares of the
          Investment Company;

     o    Upon receipt of proper authorization,  transfer ownership of record of
          certificated or uncertificated  Investment  Company Shares whether now
          outstanding or hereafter issued;

     o    Upon receipt of proper authorization, redeem Shares, debit shareholder
          accounts and provide for payment to shareholders; and

     o    If the Investment Company issues certificated  shares, upon receipt of
          proper  authorization,  countersign  as  transfer  agent  and  deliver
          certificates  upon  issuance,   countersign  certificates  to  reflect
          ownership transfers, and cancel certificates when redeemed.

AS SHAREHOLDER SERVICE AGENT FOR THE INVESTMENT COMPANY, FTIS WILL:

     o      Receive from the Investment Company,  from the Investment  Company's
            Principal Underwriter or from a Shareholder, on a form acceptable to
            FTIS,  information  necessary to record sales and redemptions and to
            generate sale and/or redemption confirmations;

     o     Mail sale and/or redemption confirmations using standard forms;

     o      Accept  and  process  cash   payments   from   investors  and  their
            broker-dealers  or  other  agents,   clear  checks  which  represent
            payments for the purchase of Shares;

     o      Support  the use of  automated  systems  for payment and other share
            transactions,  including NSCC Fund/Serv, PC Trades and other systems
            which may be reasonably requested by FTIS customers;

     o      Keep records as necessary to implement any deferred  sales  charges,
            exchange  restrictions  or other policies of the Investment  Company
            affecting  share  transactions,  including  without  limitation  any
            restrictions or policies applicable to certain classes of shares, as
            stated in the applicable prospectus;

     o    Requisition  Shares in accordance  with  instructions of the Principal
          Underwriter of the Shares of the Investment Company;

     o    Produce  periodic reports  reflecting the accounts  receivable and the
          paid pending (free stock) items;

     o     Open, maintain and close Shareholder accounts;

     o    Establish  registration  of  ownership  of Shares in  accordance  with
          generally accepted form;

     o    Maintain  records of (i) issued Shares and (ii) number of Shareholders
          and  their  aggregate  Shareholdings  classified  according  to  their
          residence in each State of the United States or foreign country;

     o      Accept and process telephone exchanges and redemptions for Shares in
            accordance   with  a  Fund's   Telephone   Exchange  and  Redemption
            Privileges as described in the Fund's current prospectus.

     o      Maintain and safeguard records for each Shareholder showing name(s),
            address,  number of any  certificates  issued,  and number of Shares
            registered in such name(s),  together with  continuous  proof of the
            outstanding  Shares, and dealer  identification,  and reflecting all
            current changes. On request, provide information as to an investor's
            qualification for Cumulative Quantity Discount. Provide all accounts
            with year-to-date and year-end historical confirmation statements;

     o    Provide on request a duplicate set of records for file  maintenance in
          the Investment Company's office;

     o    Provide  for the proper  allocation  of proceeds of share sales to the
          Investment  Company and to the  Principal  Underwriter,  in accordance
          with the applicable prospectus;

     o    Redeem  Shares  and  provide  for  the  preparation  and  delivery  of
          liquidation proceeds;

     o    Provide for the processing of redemption checks, and maintain checking
          account records;

     o      Exercise   reasonable  and  good-faith   business  judgment  in  the
            registration of Share  transfers,  pledges and releases from pledges
            in  accordance  with  the  California  Uniform  Commercial  Code - -
            Investment Securities;

     o      From time to time make transfers of certificates  for such Shares as
            may be surrendered for transfer properly  endorsed,  and countersign
            new certificates issued in lieu thereof;

     o      Upon receipt of proper documentation,  place stop transfers,  obtain
            necessary  insurance  forms,  and reissue  replacement  certificates
            against lost, stolen or destroyed Share certificates;

     o      Check  surrendered  certificates  for  stop  transfer  restrictions.
            Although  FTIS  cannot  insure  the   genuineness  of   certificates
            surrendered for cancellation, it will employ all due reasonable care
            in deciding the genuineness of such  certificates  and the guarantor
            of the signature(s) thereon;

     o    Cancel  surrendered   certificates  and  record  and  countersign  new
          certificates;

     o     Certify outstanding Shares to auditors;

     o      In  connection  with any  meeting of  Shareholders,  upon  receiving
            appropriate detailed  instructions and written materials prepared by
            the  Investment  Company and proxy proofs  checked by the Investment
            Company,  provide  for:  (a) the  printing of proxy  cards,  (b) the
            delivery to Shareholders of all reports,  prospectuses,  proxy cards
            and related proxy  materials of suitable  design for enclosing,  (c)
            the receipt and tabulation of executed proxies,  and (d) delivery of
            a list of Shareholders for the meeting;

     o    Answer routine correspondence and telephone inquiries about individual
          accounts.  Prepare  monthly  reports  for  correspondence  volume  and
          correspondence data necessary for the Investment Company's Semi-Annual
          Report on Form N-SAR;

     o    Provide  for  the  preparation  and  delivery  of  dealer   commission
          statements and checks;

     o      Maintain  and furnish the  Investment  Company and its  Shareholders
            with such  information  as the  Investment  Company  may  reasonably
            request for the purpose of compliance by the Investment Company with
            the applicable tax and securities laws of applicable jurisdictions;

     o    Mail  confirmations  of  transactions  to  investors  and dealers in a
          timely fashion;

     o      Provide for the payment or reinvestment of income  dividends  and/or
            capital gains distributions to Shareholders of record, in accordance
            with the Investment  Company's  and/or  Shareholder's  instructions,
            provided that:

               (a)      The  Investment  Company  shall  notify  FTIS in writing
                        promptly upon  declaration  of any such dividend  and/or
                        distribution, and in any event at least forty-eight (48)
                        hours before the record date;

               (b)      Such  notification  shall include the declaration  date,
                        the record date,  the payable  date,  the rate,  and, if
                        applicable,  the reinvestment  date and the reinvestment
                        price to be used; and

               (c)      Prior to the payable date, the Investment  Company shall
                        furnish FTIS with sufficient fully and finally collected
                        funds to make such distribution;

     o    Prepare and file  annual U.S.  information  returns of  dividends  and
          capital  gain  distributions,   gross  redemption  proceeds,   foreign
          person's  U.S.  source  income,  and  other  U.S.  federal  and  state
          information   returns  as   required,   and  mail   payee   copies  to
          shareholders; report and pay U.S. backup withholding on all reportable
          payments;  report and pay U.S.  federal  income  taxes  withheld  from
          distributions  and other  payments made to  nonresidents  of the U.S.;
          prepare and mail to  shareholders  any notice required by the Internal
          Revenue Code as to taxable dividends,  tax-exempt  interest dividends,
          realized net capital gains distributed and/ or retained, foreign taxes
          paid and foreign source income distributed or deemed distributed, U.S.
          source income and any tax withheld on such income,  dividends received
          deduction information, or other applicable tax information appropriate
          for dissemination to shareholders of the Trust;

     o    Comply with all U.S.  federal  income tax  requirements  regarding the
          collection   of  tax   identification   numbers  and  other   required
          shareholder  certifications and information  pertaining to shareholder
          accounts;  respond to all notifications from the U.S. Internal Revenue
          Service  regarding  the  application  of the U.S.  backup  withholding
          requirements   including  tax   identification   number   solicitation
          requirements;

     o     Prepare transfer journals;

     o     Set up wire order Share transactions on file;

     o    Provide for receipt of payment for Share transactions,  and update the
          transaction file;

     o     Produce delinquency and other trade file reports;

     o    Provide dealer commission  statements and provide for payments thereof
          for the Principal Underwriter;

     o    Sort and print  shareholder  information by state,  social code, price
          break, etc.; and

     o    Mail  promptly  the  Statement  of  Additional   Information   of  the
          Investment  Company to each Shareholder who requests it, at no cost to
          the Shareholder.

     In connection with the Investment  Company's  Systematic  Withdrawal  Plan,
FTIS will:

     o    Make  payment of amounts  withdrawn  periodically  by the  Shareholder
          pursuant  to  the  Program  by  redeeming  Shares,  and  confirm  such
          redemptions to the Shareholder; and

     o    Provide  confirmations of all  redemptions,  reinvestment of dividends
          and  distributions,  and any  additional  investments  in the Program,
          including a summary confirmation at the year-end.






                                  Exhibit 10.17

                         FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS, INC.
                            777 Mariners Island Blvd.
                           San Mateo, California 94404


Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.
777 Mariners Island Blvd.
San Mateo, California 94404

Re:     Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement

Gentlemen:

We (the "Fund") are a  corporation  or business  trust  operating as an open-end
management  investment  company or "mutual fund",  which is registered under the
Investment  Company Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act") and whose shares are registered
under the  Securities  Act of 1933 (the "1933  Act").  We desire to issue one or
more series or classes of our authorized but unissued shares of capital stock or
beneficial  interest  (the  "Shares") to authorized  persons in accordance  with
applicable  Federal and State  securities  laws.  The Fund's  Shares may be made
available  in one or more  separate  series,  each of which may have one or more
classes.

You have informed us that your company is registered  as a  broker-dealer  under
the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that your company is a
member  of the  National  Association  of  Securities  Dealers,  Inc.  You  have
indicated your desire to act as the exclusive  selling agent and distributor for
the Shares.  We have been  authorized  to execute and deliver this  Distribution
Agreement  ("Agreement")  to you by a  resolution  of our Board of  Directors or
Trustees  ("Board")  passed at a meeting at which a majority  of Board  members,
including a majority who are not  otherwise  interested  persons of the Fund and
who  are  not  interested  persons  of  our  investment  adviser,   its  related
organizations or with you or your related organizations,  were present and voted
in favor of the said resolution approving this Agreement.

     1. Appointment of Underwriter.  Upon the execution of this Agreement and in
consideration of the agreements on your part herein expressed and upon the terms
and  conditions set forth herein,  we hereby appoint you as the exclusive  sales
agent for our Shares and agree that we will deliver such Shares as you may sell.
You agree to use your best  efforts to promote  the sale of Shares,  but are not
obligated to sell any specific number of Shares.

     However,  the Fund and each series retain the right to make direct sales of
its Shares without sales charges  consistent  with the terms of the then current
prospectus  and  applicable  law,  and to  engage  in other  legally  authorized
transactions  in its  Shares  which do not  involve  the sale of  Shares  to the
general  public.  Such  other  transactions  may  include,  without  limitation,
transactions  between the Fund or any series or class and its shareholders only,
transactions  involving  the  reorganization  of the  Fund  or any  series,  and
transactions  involving the merger or combination of the Fund or any series with
another corporation or trust.

     2.   Independent   Contractor.   You  will  undertake  and  discharge  your
obligations  hereunder as an independent  contractor and shall have no authority
or power to obligate or bind us by your  actions,  conduct or  contracts  except
that  you are  authorized  to  promote  the  sale  of  Shares.  You may  appoint
sub-agents or distribute  through dealers or otherwise as you may determine from
time to time,  but this  Agreement  shall not be  construed as  authorizing  any
dealer or other person to accept  orders for sale or repurchase on our behalf or
otherwise act as our agent for any purpose.

     3. Offering Price.  Shares shall be offered for sale at a price  equivalent
to the net asset  value per share of that  series and class plus any  applicable
percentage of the public offering price as sales  commission or as otherwise set
forth in our then current prospectus. On each business day on which the New York
Stock  Exchange  is open for  business,  we will  furnish you with the net asset
value of the Shares of each available series and class which shall be determined
in accordance with our then effective prospectus. All Shares will be sold in the
manner set forth in our then  effective  prospectus  and statement of additional
information, and in compliance with applicable law.

     4.     Compensation.

          A.  Sales  Commission.  You  shall  be  entitled  to  charge  a  sales
commission on the sale or redemption,  as appropriate,  of each series and class
of each  Fund's  Shares in the amount of any  initial,  deferred  or  contingent
deferred  sales charge as set forth in our then  effective  prospectus.  You may
allow any  sub-agents  or dealers such  commissions  or  discounts  from and not
exceeding the total sales commission as you shall deem advisable, so long as any
such  commissions  or discounts  are set forth in our current  prospectus to the
extent  required by the applicable  Federal and State  securities  laws. You may
also make payments to sub-agents or dealers from your own resources,  subject to
the following conditions:  (a) any such payments shall not create any obligation
for or recourse  against the Fund or any series or class,  and (b) the terms and
conditions  of  any  such  payments  are  consistent  with  our  prospectus  and
applicable federal and state securities laws and are disclosed in our prospectus
or statement of additional information to the extent such laws may require.

B.  Distribution  Plans.  You shall also be  entitled to  compensation  for your
services as provided in any Distribution Plan adopted as to any series and class
of any Fund's Shares pursuant to Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act.

     5. Terms and Conditions of Sales.  Shares shall be offered for sale only in
those  jurisdictions where they have been properly registered or are exempt from
registration,  and only to those  groups of people which the Board may from time
to time determine to be eligible to purchase such shares.

     6. Orders and Payment  for Shares.  Orders for Shares  shall be directed to
the Fund's shareholder  services agent, for acceptance on behalf of the Fund. At
or prior to the time of  delivery  of any of our Shares you will pay or cause to
be paid to the  custodian of the Fund's  assets,  for our account,  an amount in
cash  equal to the net asset  value of such  Shares.  Sales of  Shares  shall be
deemed to be made when and where  accepted  by the Fund's  shareholder  services
agent. The Fund's  custodian and shareholder  services agent shall be identified
in its prospectus.

     7.  Purchases  for Your Own Account.  You shall not purchase our Shares for
your own account for  purposes  of resale to the  public,  but you may  purchase
Shares for your own  investment  account  upon your written  assurance  that the
purchase  is for  investment  purposes  and that the  Shares  will not be resold
except through redemption by us.

     8. Sale of Shares to Affiliates. You may sell our Shares at net asset value
to  certain  of your  and our  affiliated  persons  pursuant  to the  applicable
provisions  of  the  federal  securities   statutes  and  rules  or  regulations
thereunder  (the "Rules and  Regulations"),  including Rule 22d-1 under the 1940
Act, as amended from time to time.




     9.     Allocation of Expenses.  We will pay the expenses:

          (a)     Of the  preparation  of the  audited and  certified  financial
                  statements of our company to be included in any Post-Effective
                  Amendments  ("Amendments") to our Registration Statement under
                  the  1933  Act or  1940  Act,  including  the  prospectus  and
                  statement of additional information included therein;

          (b)     Of the preparation,  including legal fees, and printing of all
                  Amendments  or  supplements  filed  with  the  Securities  and
                  Exchange Commission,  including the copies of the prospectuses
                  included  in the  Amendments  and the  first 10  copies of the
                  definitive  prospectuses  or supplements  thereto,  other than
                  those   necessitated  by  your  (including  your   "Parent's")
                  activities or Rules and Regulations related to your activities
                  where such Amendments or supplements  result in expenses which
                  we would not otherwise have incurred;

          (c)  Of the  preparation,  printing and distribution of any reports or
               communications which we send to our existing shareholders; and

          (d)     Of  filing  and other  fees to  Federal  and State  securities
                  regulatory  authorities  necessary  to continue  offering  our
                  Shares.

          You will pay the expenses:

          (a)  Of printing the copies of the  prospectuses  and any  supplements
               thereto  and  statements  of  additional  information  which  are
               necessary to continue to offer our Shares;

          (b)     Of the preparation,  excluding legal fees, and printing of all
                  Amendments and supplements to our  prospectuses and statements
                  of  additional  information  if the  Amendment  or  supplement
                  arises from your  (including  your  "Parent's")  activities or
                  Rules and  Regulations  related to your  activities  and those
                  expenses would not otherwise have been incurred by us;

          (c)  Of  printing   additional   copies,  for  use  by  you  as  sales
               literature,  of  reports  or other  communications  which we have
               prepared for distribution to our existing shareholders; and

(d) Incurred by you in advertising, promoting and selling our Shares.

     10. Furnishing of Information. We will furnish to you such information with
respect to each  series and class of Shares,  in such form and signed by such of
our officers as you may reasonably  request,  and we warrant that the statements
therein  contained,  when so  signed,  will be true and  correct.  We will  also
furnish  you  with  such  information  and  will  take  such  action  as you may
reasonably  request in order to qualify our Shares for sale to the public  under
the Blue Sky Laws of  jurisdictions in which you may wish to offer them. We will
furnish you with annual audited  financial  statements of our books and accounts
certified  by  independent  public  accountants,   with  semi-annual   financial
statements prepared by us, with registration  statements and, from time to time,
with such additional  information  regarding our financial  condition as you may
reasonably request.

     11. Conduct of Business. Other than our currently effective prospectus, you
will not issue any sales material or statements except literature or advertising
which  conforms to the  requirements  of Federal and State  securities  laws and
regulations  and which have been filed,  where  necessary,  with the appropriate
regulatory  authorities.  You will furnish us with copies of all such  materials
prior  to  their  use  and no such  material  shall  be  published  if we  shall
reasonably and promptly object.

          You shall  comply  with the  applicable  Federal  and  State  laws and
regulations  where our Shares are offered for sale and conduct your affairs with
us and with dealers,  brokers or investors in accordance  with the Rules of Fair
Practice of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.

     12.  Redemption or Repurchase  Within Seven Days. If Shares are tendered to
us for  redemption  or  repurchase  by us within seven  business days after your
acceptance of the original purchase order for such Shares,  you will immediately
refund to us the full sales commission (net of allowances to dealers or brokers)
allowed to you on the original sale, and will  promptly,  upon receipt  thereof,
pay  to us  any  refunds  from  dealers  or  brokers  of the  balance  of  sales
commissions  reallowed by you. We shall notify you of such tender for redemption
within  10 days of the day on which  notice of such  tender  for  redemption  is
received by us.

     13. Other Activities. Your services pursuant to this Agreement shall not be
deemed  to be  exclusive,  and you may  render  similar  services  and act as an
underwriter,  distributor  or  dealer  for  other  investment  companies  in the
offering of their shares.

     14. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall become effective on the date of
its  execution,  and shall  remain in effect for a period of two (2) years.  The
Agreement is renewable annually thereafter,  with respect to the Fund or, if the
Fund has more than one  series,  with  respect to each  series,  for  successive
periods  not  to  exceed  one  year  (i)  by a vote  of  (a) a  majority  of the
outstanding  voting  securities  of the Fund or,  if the Fund has more  than one
series,  of each series,  or (b) by a vote of the Board, and (ii) by a vote of a
majority  of the members of the Board who are not  parties to the  Agreement  or
interested persons of any parties to the Agreement (other than as members of the
Board),  cast in person at a meeting  called  for the  purpose  of voting on the
Agreement.

          This  Agreement  may at any time be  terminated  by the Fund or by any
series without the payment of any penalty, (i) either by vote of the Board or by
vote of a  majority  of the  outstanding  voting  securities  of the Fund or any
series on 90 days'  written  notice to you;  or (ii) by you on 90 days'  written
notice to the Fund; and shall immediately terminate with respect to the Fund and
each series in the event of its assignment.

     15.  Suspension  of Sales.  We reserve the right at all times to suspend or
limit the public offering of Shares upon two days' written notice to you.

     16. Miscellaneous. This Agreement shall be subject to the laws of the State
of California  and shall be  interpreted  and  construed to further  promote the
operation of the Fund as an open-end  investment  company.  This Agreement shall
supersede  all  Distribution  Agreements  and  Amendments  previously  in effect
between the parties.  As used  herein,  the terms "Net Asset  Value,"  "Offering
Price,"  "Investment  Company,"  "Open-End  Investment  Company,"  "Assignment,"
"Principal Underwriter," "Interested Person," "Parent," "Affiliated Person," and
"Majority  of the  Outstanding  Voting  Securities"  shall have the meanings set
forth in the 1933 Act or the 1940 Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder.

Nothing  herein shall be deemed to protect you against any liability to us or to
our  securities  holders  to which you would  otherwise  be subject by reason of
willful  misfeasance,  bad faith or gross  negligence in the performance of your
duties  hereunder,  or by reason of your reckless  disregard of your obligations
and duties hereunder.

If the foregoing meets with your approval, please acknowledge your acceptance by
signing  each of the  enclosed  copies,  whereupon  this  will  become a binding
agreement as of the date set forth below.




Very truly yours,

FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS, INC.



By:_______________________________


Accepted:

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.


By:__________________________________



DATED: ______________







                                  EXHIBIT 10.18


                                      CLASS II DISTRIBUTION PLAN

I.   Investment Company: FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS, INC.
II.  Fund and Class:     GROWTH SERIES - CLASS II
III. Maximum Per Annum Rule 12b-1 Fees for Class II Shares
(as a percentage of average daily net assets of the class)

     A.     Distribution Fee:       0.75%
     B.     Service Fee:            0.25%

     Preamble to Class II Distribution Plan

     The following  Distribution  Plan (the "Plan") has been adopted pursuant to
Rule  12b-1  under  the  Investment  Company  Act of  1940  (the  "Act")  by the
Investment  Company named above  ("Investment  Company") for the class II shares
(the "Class") of each Fund named above ("Fund"), which Plan shall take effect as
of the date  class II  shares  are first  offered  (the  "Effective  Date of the
Plan").  The Plan has been  approved by a majority of the Board of  Directors or
Trustees of the Investment  Company (the  "Board"),  including a majority of the
Board members who are not interested  persons of the Investment  Company and who
have no direct, or indirect financial interest in the operation of the Plan (the
"non-interested  Board  members"),  cast in person at a meeting  called  for the
purpose of voting on such Plan.

     In  reviewing  the Plan,  the Board  considered  the schedule and nature of
payments and terms of the Management  Agreement  between the Investment  Company
and Franklin Advisers,  Inc. and the terms of the Underwriting Agreement between
the   Investment    Company   and    Franklin/Templeton    Distributors,    Inc.
("Distributors").  The Board concluded that the compensation of Advisers,  under
the Management Agreement, and of Distributors, under the Underwriting Agreement,
was fair and not  excessive.  The approval of the Plan included a  determination
that in the exercise of their reasonable business judgment and in light of their
fiduciary  duties,  there is a reasonable  likelihood that the Plan will benefit
the Fund and its shareholders.

     Distribution Plan

     1. (a) The Fund shall pay to Distributors a quarterly fee not to exceed the
above-stated  maximum distribution fee per annum of the Class' average daily net
assets  represented  by shares of the Class,  as may be  determined by the Board
from time to time.

        (b) In addition to the amounts  described  in (a) above,  the Fund shall
pay (i) to  Distributors  for payment to dealers or others,  or (ii) directly to
others,  an amount not to exceed the above-stated  maximum service fee per annum
of the Class' average daily net assets  represented  by shares of the Class,  as
may be  determined  by the  Fund's  Board  from time to time,  as a service  fee
pursuant to servicing  agreements  which have been approved from time to time by
the Board, including the non-interested Board members.

     2. (a)  Distributors  shall use the monies paid to it pursuant to Paragraph
1(a) above to assist in the  distribution  and promotion of shares of the Class.
Payments  made to  Distributors  under  the Plan may be used  for,  among  other
things,  the  printing  of  prospectuses  and reports  used for sales  purposes,
expenses of preparing and distributing  sales  literature and related  expenses,
advertisements,  and other distribution-related  expenses, including a pro-rated
portion of Distributors'  overhead expenses  attributable to the distribution of
Class shares,  as well as for  additional  distribution  fees paid to securities
dealers  or  their  firms  or  others  who  have  executed  agreements  with the
Investment Company,  Distributors or its affiliates, which form of agreement has
been approved from time to time by the  Trustees,  including the  non-interested
trustees. In addition, such fees may be used to pay for advancing the commission
costs to dealers or others with respect to the sale of Class shares.

          (b) The monies to be paid  pursuant to  paragraph  1(b) above shall be
used to pay  dealers or others  for,  among other  things,  furnishing  personal
services and maintaining  shareholder  accounts,  which services include,  among
other things,  assisting in establishing and maintaining  customer  accounts and
records;  assisting  with purchase and redemption  requests;  arranging for bank
wires;  monitoring  dividend  payments  from the Fund on  behalf  of  customers;
forwarding  certain  shareholder  communications  from  the  Fund to  customers;
receiving and answering correspondence; and aiding in maintaining the investment
of their  respective  customers  in the  Class.  Any  amounts  paid  under  this
paragraph 2(b) shall be paid pursuant to a servicing or other  agreement,  which
form of agreement has been approved from time to time by the Board.

     3. In  addition  to the  payments  which  the  Fund is  authorized  to make
pursuant to  paragraphs 1 and 2 hereof,  to the extent that the Fund,  Advisers,
Distributors  or other parties on behalf of the Fund,  Advisers or  Distributors
make  payments  that are deemed to be payments by the Fund for the  financing of
any activity  primarily intended to result in the sale of Class shares issued by
the Fund  within the  context of Rule 12b-1  under the Act,  then such  payments
shall be deemed to have been made pursuant to the Plan.

      In no event shall the  aggregate  asset-based  sales charges which include
payments  specified in paragraphs 1 and 2, plus any other payments  deemed to be
made pursuant to the Plan under this paragraph,  exceed the amount  permitted to
be paid  pursuant to the Rules of Fair Practice of the National  Association  of
Securities Dealers, Inc., Article III, Section 26(d).

     4. Distributors  shall furnish to the Board, for its review, on a quarterly
basis, a written  report of the monies  reimbursed to it and to others under the
Plan,  and shall furnish the Board with such other  information as the Board may
reasonably  request in connection with the payments made under the Plan in order
to enable the Board to make an informed determination of whether the Plan should
be continued.

     5. The Plan  shall  continue  in effect  for a period of more than one year
only so long as such  continuance is specifically  approved at least annually by
the Board,  including  the  non-interested  Board  members,  cast in person at a
meeting called for the purpose of voting on the Plan.

     6. The Plan, and any agreements  entered into pursuant to this Plan, may be
terminated  at  any  time,  without  penalty,  by  vote  of a  majority  of  the
outstanding  voting  securities  of the  Fund or by vote  of a  majority  of the
non-interested  Board members, on not more than sixty (60) days' written notice,
or by Distributors  on not more than sixty (60) days' written notice,  and shall
terminate  automatically  in the event of any act that constitutes an assignment
of the Management Agreement between the Fund and Advisers.

     7. The Plan, and any agreements entered into pursuant to this Plan, may not
be  amended  to  increase  materially  the  amount to be spent for  distribution
pursuant  to  Paragraph  1 hereof  without  approval by a majority of the Fund's
outstanding voting securities.

     8. All material  amendments  to the Plan,  or any  agreements  entered into
pursuant to this Plan,  shall be approved by the  non-interested  Board  members
cast in  person  at a  meeting  called  for the  purpose  of  voting on any such
amendment.

     9. So long as the Plan is in effect,  the selection  and  nomination of the
Fund's non-interested Board members shall be committed to the discretion of such
non-interested Board members.

     This Plan and the terms and  provisions  thereof  are hereby  accepted  and
agreed to by the  Investment  Company and  Distributors  as  evidenced  by their
execution hereof.

Date:     __________________, 1995


                    Investment Company


                    By:________________________________



                  Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.


                  By:________________________________






                                            EXHIBIT 10.19


                                           DEALER AGREEMENT
                                        Effective: May 1, 1995


Dear Securities Dealer:



  Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,   Inc.   ("we"  or  "us")  invites  you  to
participate in the  distribution of shares of the Franklin and Templeton  mutual
funds  (the  "Funds")  for  which we now or in the  future  serve  as  principal
underwriter,  subject to the terms of this  Agreement.  We will  notify you from
time to time of the Funds which are eligible for  distribution  and the terms of
compensation  under this Agreement.  This Agreement  supersedes any prior dealer
agreements between us, as stated in paragraph 18, below.



1. Licensing.

  (a) You  represent  that you are a member  in good  standing  of the  National
Association of Securities  Dealers,  Inc. ("NASD") and are presently licensed to
the extent necessary by the appropriate regulatory agency of each state in which
you will offer and sell  shares of the  Funds.  You agree  that  termination  or
suspension of such  membership  with the NASD, or of your license to do business
by any state or  federal  regulatory  agency,  at any time  shall  terminate  or
suspend this  Agreement  forthwith and shall require you to notify us in writing
of such action.  If you are not a member of the NASD but are a dealer subject to
the laws of a  foreign  country,  you  agree  to  conform  to the  rules of fair
practice of such association.  This Agreement is in all respects subject to Rule
26 of the Rules of Fair  Practice of the NASD which shall  control any provision
to the contrary in this Agreement.



  (b) You agree to notify us immediately in writing if at any time you are not a
member  in good  standing  of the  Securities  Investor  Protection  Corporation
("SIPC").



2. Sales of Fund  Shares.  You may offer and sell  shares of each Fund and class
only at the public offering price which shall be applicable to, and in effect at
the time of, each  transaction.  The  procedures  relating to all orders and the
handling  of them shall be subject to the terms of the then  current  prospectus
and statement of additional  information  (hereafter,  the "prospectus") and new
account application,  including amendments,  for each such Fund, and our written
instructions  from time to time.  This  Agreement is not  exclusive,  and either
party may enter into similar agreements with third parties.



3. Duties of Dealer: In General. You agree:
  (a) To act as  principal,  or as agent on  behalf  of your  customers,  in all
transactions  in shares of the Funds  except as provided in  paragraph 4 hereof.
You shall not have any authority to act as agent for the issuer (the Funds), for
the Principal Underwriter,  or for any other dealer in any respect, nor will you
represent to any third party that you have such  authority or are acting in such
capacity.



  (b)     To purchase shares only from us or from your customers.



  (c) To enter  orders for the  purchase of shares of the Funds only from us and
only for the purpose of covering  purchase orders you have already received from
your customers or for your own bona fide investment.



  (d) To maintain  records of all sales and  redemptions  of shares made through
you and to furnish us with copies of such records on request.



  (e) To  distribute  prospectuses  and reports to your  customers in compliance
with  applicable  legal  requirements,  except to the extent  that we  expressly
undertake to do so on your behalf.



  (f) That you will not withhold placing  customers'  orders for shares so as to
profit  yourself as a result of such  withholding  or place orders for shares in
amounts just below the point at which sales charges are reduced so as to benefit
from a higher sales charge applicable to an amount below the breakpoint.



  (g) That if any shares  confirmed to you hereunder are repurchased or redeemed
by any of the Funds within seven business days after such  confirmation  of your
original order, you shall forthwith refund to us the full concession  allowed to
you on such orders. We shall forthwith pay to the appropriate Fund our share, if
any, of the  "charge" on the  original  sale and shall also pay to such Fund the
refund from you as herein  provided.  We shall notify you of such  repurchase or
redemption   within  a  reasonable   time  after   settlement.   Termination  or
cancellation of this Agreement shall not relieve you or us from the requirements
of this subparagraph.



  (h) That if payment for the shares  purchased is not received  within the time
customary or the time required by law for such payment, the sale may be canceled
forthwith without any  responsibility or liability on our part or on the part of
the Funds,  or at our option,  we may sell the shares  which you ordered back to
the Funds,  in which latter case we may hold you responsible for any loss to the
Funds or loss of profit  suffered  by us  resulting  from your  failure  to make
payment as  aforesaid.  We shall have no  liability  for any check or other item
returned  unpaid to you after you have paid us on behalf of a purchaser.  We may
refuse to liquidate  the  investment  unless we receive the  purchaser's  signed
authorization for the liquidation.



  (i) That you shall assume responsibility for any loss to the Funds caused by a
correction made subsequent to trade date, provided such correction was not based
on any error,  omission or negligence on our part, and that you will immediately
pay such loss to the Funds upon notification.



  (j) That if on a redemption  which you have  ordered,  instructions  in proper
form,  including  outstanding  certificates,  are not  received  within the time
customary or the time required by law, the redemption may be canceled  forthwith
without any  responsibility or liability on our part or on the part of any Fund,
or at our option, we may buy the shares redeemed on behalf of the Fund, in which
latter  case we may  hold  you  responsible  for any loss to the Fund or loss of
profit suffered by us resulting from your failure to settle the redemption.



4. Duties of Dealer:  Retirement  Accounts.  In  connection  with orders for the
purchase of shares on behalf of an Individual Retirement Account,  Self-Employed
Retirement Plan or other retirement accounts, by mail,  telephone,  or wire, you
shall act as agent for the  custodian  or  trustee of such  plans  (solely  with
respect to the time of receipt of the application  and payments),  and you shall
not place such an order until you have received  from your customer  payment for
such purchase and, if such purchase  represents the first contribution to such a
plan,  the completed  documents  necessary to establish  the plan.  You agree to
indemnify us and Franklin  Templeton Trust Company and/or  Templeton Funds Trust
Company as applicable for any claim, loss, or liability resulting from incorrect
investment  instructions  received from you which cause a tax liability or other
tax penalty.



5. Conditional Orders; Certificates. We will not accept from you any conditional
orders for  shares of any of the  Funds.  Delivery  of  certificates  for shares
purchased  shall be made by the Funds only against  constructive  receipt of the
purchase price,  subject to deduction for your concession and our portion of the
sales  charge,  if any,  on such sale.  No  certificates  will be issued  unless
specifically requested.

6. Dealer Compensation.

  (a) On each  purchase  of shares by you from us, the total  sales  charges and
your  dealer  concessions  shall  be as  stated  in  each  Fund's  then  current
prospectus,  subject to NASD rules and applicable  state and federal laws.  Such
sales charges and dealer  concessions are subject to reductions  under a variety
of  circumstances  as described in the Funds'  prospectuses.  For an investor to
obtain  these  reductions,  we must be notified at the time of the sale that the
sale  qualifies  for  the  reduced  charge.  If you  fail  to  notify  us of the
applicability  of a  reduction  in the  sales  charge  at the time the  trade is
placed,  neither we nor any of the Funds will be liable for amounts necessary to
reimburse any investor for the reduction which should have been effected.



  (b) In accordance with the Funds' prospectuses,  we or our affiliates may, but
are not  obligated  to,  make  payments  to dealers  from our own  resources  as
compensation  for  certain  sales  which are made at net asset value and are not
subject to any contingent  deferred sales charges  ("Qualifying  Sales"). If you
notify us of a Qualifying  Sale, we may make a contingent  advance payment up to
the  maximum  amount  available  for  payment on the sale.  If any of the shares
purchased in a Qualifying  Sale are redeemed  within twelve months of the end of
the month of  purchase,  we shall be entitled  to recover  any  advance  payment
attributable  to the redeemed  shares by reducing  any account  payable or other
monetary obligation we may owe to you or by making demand upon you for repayment
in cash.  We reserve  the right to withhold  advances to any dealer,  if for any
reason we believe that we may not be able to recover unearned advances from such
dealer.  In  addition,  dealers  will  generally  be  required  to enter  into a
supplemental  agreement  with  us with  respect  to  such  compensation  and the
repayment obligation prior to receiving any payments.



7.  Redemptions.  Redemptions  or  repurchases of shares will be made at the net
asset value of such shares,  less any  applicable  deferred  sales or redemption
charges, in accordance with the applicable prospectuses.  Except as permitted by
applicable  law, you agree not to purchase  any shares from your  customers at a
price lower than the redemption or repurchase prices then computed by the Funds.
You shall,  however,  be  permitted to sell shares for the account of the record
owner to the Funds at the  repurchase  price then  currently  in effect for such
shares and may charge the owner a fair commission for handling the transaction.



8.  Exchanges.  Telephone  exchange  orders will be effective only for shares in
plan balance  (uncertificated  shares) or for which share certificates have been
previously  deposited and may be subject to any fees or other  restrictions  set
forth in the  applicable  prospectuses.  You may charge the  shareholder  a fair
commission for handling an exchange transaction. Exchanges from a Fund sold with
no sales charge to a Fund which  carries a sales charge,  and  exchanges  from a
Fund sold with a sales charge to a Fund which  carries a higher sales charge may
be  subject  to a sales  charge  in  accordance  with the  terms of each  Fund's
prospectus.  You  will be  obligated  to  comply  with any  additional  exchange
policies described in each Fund's  prospectus,  including without limitation any
policy restricting or prohibiting "Timing Accounts" as therein defined.



9. Transaction Processing. All orders are subject to acceptance by us and by the
Fund or its transfer agent, and become  effective only upon  confirmation by us.
If required by law,  each  transaction  shall be confirmed in writing on a fully
disclosed  basis and if  confirmed by us, a copy of each  confirmation  shall be
sent  simultaneously  to you if you so  request.  All sales are made  subject to
receipt of shares by us from the Funds.  We reserve the right in our discretion,
without notice, to suspend the sale of shares or withdraw the offering of shares
entirely. Telephone orders will be effected at the price(s) next computed on the
day  they  are  received  from  you if,  as set  forth  in each  Fund's  current
prospectus,  they are  received  prior to the time the  price of its  shares  is
calculated.  Orders  received  after that time will be effected at the  price(s)
computed on the next business day. All orders must be  accompanied by payment in
U.S. dollars. Orders payable by check must be drawn payable in U.S. dollars on a
U.S. bank, for the full amount of the investment.



10. Multiple Classes. We may from time to time provide to you written compliance
guidelines or standards  relating to the sale or  distribution of Funds offering
multiple classes of shares with different sales charges and distribution-related
operating  expenses.  In addition,  you will be bound by any applicable rules or
regulations of government  agencies or self-regulatory  organizations  generally
affecting the sale or distribution of mutual funds offering  multiple classes of
shares.



11. Rule 12b-1 Plans.  You are also invited to  participate in all Plans adopted
by the Funds (the "Plan Funds") pursuant to Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act.



  To the extent you provide  administrative and other services,  including,  but
not limited to,  furnishing  personal and other  services and assistance to your
customers who own shares of a Plan Fund, answering routine inquiries regarding a
Fund, assisting in changing account designations and addresses, maintaining such
accounts or such other services as a Fund may require,  to the extent  permitted
by applicable  statutes,  rules, or  regulations,  we shall pay you a Rule 12b-1
servicing fee. To the extent that you  participate in the  distribution  of Fund
shares which are eligible for a Rule 12b-1  distribution  fee, we shall also pay
you a Rule 12b-1  distribution  fee. All Rule 12b-1  servicing and  distribution
fees shall be based on the value of shares  attributable  to  customers  of your
firm and eligible for such payment,  and shall be calculated on the basis and at
the rates set forth in the compensation  schedule then in effect.  Without prior
approval by a majority of the outstanding shares of a Fund, the aggregate annual
fees paid to you  pursuant to each Plan shall not exceed the  amounts  stated as
the  "annual  maximums"  in each  Fund's  prospectus,  which  amount  shall be a
specified  percent of the value of the Fund's net assets held in your customers'
accounts which are eligible for payment  pursuant to this Agreement  (determined
in the same  manner as each Fund uses to compute  its net assets as set forth in
its effective Prospectus).



  You shall furnish us and each Fund with such  information as shall  reasonably
be requested by the Boards of Directors,  Trustees or Managing  General Partners
(hereinafter  referred to as "Directors") of such Funds with respect to the fees
paid to you  pursuant  to the  Schedule.  We  shall  furnish  to the  Boards  of
Directors of the Plan Funds,  for their review on a quarterly  basis,  a written
report of the amounts  expended  under the Plans and the purposes for which such
expenditures were made.



  The Plans and  provisions  of any  agreement  relating  to such  Plans must be
approved annually by a vote of the Plan Funds' Directors, including such persons
who are not  interested  persons  of the Plan  Funds  and who have no  financial
interest in the Plans or any related  agreement  ("Rule 12b-1  Directors").  The
Plans  or the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  relating  to such  Plans  may be
terminated  at any time by the vote of a majority of the Plan  Funds'  Boards of
Directors,  including  Rule 12b-1  Directors,  or by a vote of a majority of the
outstanding  shares of the Plan  Funds,  on sixty  (60)  days'  written  notice,
without  payment of any penalty.  The Plans or the  provisions of this Agreement
may also be terminated by any act that  terminates  the  Underwriting  Agreement
between us and the Plan Funds, and/or the management or administration agreement
between Franklin Advisers,  Inc. or Templeton Investment Counsel,  Inc. or their
affiliates and the Plan Funds.  In the event of the termination of the Plans for
any reason,  the  provisions of this  Agreement  relating to the Plans will also
terminate.



  Continuation  of the Plans and provisions of this  Agreement  relating to such
Plans are conditioned on Rule 12b-1 Directors being  ultimately  responsible for
selecting  and  nominating  any new Rule  12b-1  Directors.  Under  Rule  12b-1,
Directors  of any of the Plan  Funds have a duty to request  and  evaluate,  and
persons who are party to any agreement related to a Plan have a duty to furnish,
such information as may reasonably be necessary to an informed  determination of
whether the Plan or any agreement should be implemented or continued. Under Rule
12b-1, Plan Funds are permitted to implement or continue Plans or the provisions
of this  Agreement  relating to such Plans from  year-to-year  only if, based on
certain legal considerations,  the Boards of Directors are able to conclude that
the Plans will  benefit the Plan Funds.  Absent  such yearly  determination  the
Plans  and the  provisions  of this  Agreement  relating  to the  Plans  must be
terminated as set forth above.  In addition,  any  obligation  assumed by a Fund
pursuant to this  Agreement  shall be limited in all cases to the assets of such
Fund and no person shall seek satisfaction  thereof from shareholders of a Fund.
You agree to waive  payment of any  amounts  payable to you by us under a Fund's
Plan of Distribution pursuant to Rule 12b-1 until such time as we are in receipt
of such fee from the Fund.



  The  provisions of the Rule 12b-1 Plans between the Plan Funds and us, insofar
as they relate to Plans,  shall control over the provisions of this Agreement in
the event of any inconsistency.



12.  Registration of Shares.  Upon request, we shall notify you of the states or
other  jurisdictions  in which each Fund's  shares are  currently  registered or
qualified  for sale to the public.  We shall have no  obligation  to register or
qualify,  or to maintain  registration or  qualification  of, Fund shares in any
state or other  jurisdiction.  We shall have no  responsibility,  under the laws
regulating the sale of securities in any U.S. or foreign  jurisdiction,  for the
qualification or status of persons selling Fund shares or for the manner of sale
of Fund shares. Except as stated in this paragraph,  we shall not, in any event,
be liable or responsible for the issue, form, validity, enforceability and value
of such shares or for any matter in connection therewith,  and no obligation not
expressly  assumed by us in this  Agreement  shall be  implied.  Nothing in this
Agreement, however, shall be deemed to be a condition,  stipulation or provision
binding any person acquiring any security to waive compliance with any provision
of the Securities Act of 1933, or of the rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange  Commission,  or to relieve the parties  hereto from any  liability
arising under the Securities Act of 1933.



13.  Additional  Registrations.  If it is  necessary  to register or qualify the
shares in any foreign  jurisdictions  in which you intend to offer the shares of
any Funds, it will be your responsibility to arrange for and to pay the costs of
such  registration  or   qualification;   prior  to  any  such  registration  or
qualification,  you will  notify us of your intent and of any  limitations  that
might  be  imposed  on the  Funds,  and  you  agree  not to  proceed  with  such
registration  or  qualification  without the written consent of the Funds and of
ourselves.



14. Fund  Information.  No person is authorized to give any  information or make
any representations  concerning shares of any Fund except those contained in the
Fund's  current   prospectus  or  in  materials  issued  by  us  as  information
supplemental  to  such  prospectus.  We  will  supply  prospectuses,  reasonable
quantities of supplemental  sale  literature,  sales  bulletins,  and additional
information as issued.  You agree not to use other advertising or sales material
relating to the Funds except that which (a) conforms to the  requirements of any
applicable  laws or regulations  of any  government or authorized  agency in the
U.S. or any other  country,  having  jurisdiction  over the  offering or sale of
shares of the  Funds,  and (b) is  approved  in writing by us in advance of such
use.  Such  approval  may be  withdrawn by us in whole or in part upon notice to
you, and you shall, upon receipt of such notice, immediately discontinue the use
of such sales literature, sales material and advertising. You are not authorized
to modify or translate any such materials without our prior written consent.



15.  Indemnification.  You further agree to indemnify,  defend and hold harmless
the Principal  Underwriter,  the Funds, their officers,  directors and employees
from any and all losses, claims, liabilities and expenses arising out of (1) any
alleged violation of any statute or regulation (including without limitation the
securities  laws and  regulations  of the United  States or any state or foreign
country) or any alleged tort or breach of  contract,  in or related to the offer
and sale by you of shares of the Funds pursuant to this Agreement (except to the
extent that our  negligence or failure to follow correct  instructions  received
from you is the  cause of such  loss,  claim,  liability  or  expense),  (2) any
redemption or exchange pursuant to telephone  instructions  received from you or
your  agent or  employees,  or (3) the  breach  by you of any of the  terms  and
conditions of this Agreement.



16. Termination;  Succession; Amendment. Each party to this Agreement may cancel
its  participation  in this  Agreement  by  giving  written  notice to the other
parties.  Such notice  shall be deemed to have been given and to be effective on
the date on which it was either delivered personally to the other parties or any
officer or member  thereof,  or was mailed  postpaid or delivered to a telegraph
office for  transmission  to the other  parties'  Chief  Legal  Officers  at the
addresses  shown herein or in the most recent NASD Manual.  This Agreement shall
terminate  immediately  upon the  appointment  of a Trustee under the Securities
Investor  Protection Act or any other act of insolvency by you. The  termination
of this  Agreement  by any of the  foregoing  means  shall  have no effect  upon
transactions  entered into prior to the effective date of  termination.  A trade
placed by you  subsequent to your  voluntary  termination of this Agreement will
not serve to reinstate  the  Agreement.  Reinstatement,  except in the case of a
temporary   suspension  of  a  dealer,  will  only  be  effective  upon  written
notification by us. Unless terminated, this Agreement shall be binding upon each
party's  successors or assigns.  This Agreement may be amended by us at any time
by written  notice to you and your placing of an order or acceptance of payments
of any kind after the effective date and receipt of notice of any such Amendment
shall constitute your acceptance of such Amendment.



17. Setoff;  Dispute Resolution.  Should any of your concession accounts with us
have a debit  balance,  we may offset and recover the amount owed from any other
account  you have with us,  without  notice or demand to you.  In the event of a
dispute concerning any provision of this Agreement, either party may require the
dispute to be submitted to binding arbitration under the commercial  arbitration
rules of the NASD or the American  Arbitration  Association.  Judgment  upon any
arbitration  award  may  be  entered  by  any  state  or  federal  court  having
jurisdiction.  This Agreement  shall be construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of  California,  not including  any provision  which would require the
general application of the law of another jurisdiction.



18. Acceptance;  Cumulative Effect.  This Agreement is cumulative and supersedes
any agreement  previously in effect. It shall be binding upon the parties hereto
when signed by us and  accepted by you. If you have a current  dealer  agreement
with us, your first trade or  acceptance  of payments  from us after  receipt of
this  Agreement,  as it may be amended  pursuant to paragraph 16,  above,  shall
constitute your acceptance of its terms.  Otherwise,  your signature below shall
constitute your acceptance of its terms.




FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON DISTRIBUTORS, INC.



By:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Greg Johnson, President

777 Mariners Island Blvd.
San Mateo, CA 94404
Attention: Chief Legal Officer (for legal notices only)
415/312-2000

700 Central Avenue
St. Petersburg, Florida 33701-3628
813/823-8712









- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Dealer:  If you have not  previously  signed a Dealer  Agreement with us, please
complete and sign this section and return the original to us.





- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEALER NAME

By:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    (Signature)

Name:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Title:






Address:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





Telephone:

NASD CRD



  Franklin Templeton Dealer #
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  (Internal Use Only)

95.89/104 (05/95)







                                  EXHIBIT 10.20


                    MUTUAL FUND PURCHASE AND SALES AGREEMENT
                FOR ACCOUNTS OF BANK AND TRUST COMPANY CUSTOMERS
                             Effective: July 1, 1995

1. INTRODUCTION

  The  parties  to this  Agreement  are a bank or  trust  company  ("Bank")  and
Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. ("FTDI").  This Agreement sets forth the
terms and conditions under which FTDI will execute  purchases and redemptions of
shares of the  Franklin or  Templeton  mutual funds for which FTDI now or in the
future  serves as principal  underwriter  ("Funds"),  at the request of the Bank
upon the order and for the account of Bank's  customers  ("Customers").  In this
Agreement,  "Customer" shall include the beneficial owners of an account and any
agent or  attorney-in-fact  duly  authorized  or appointed to act on the owners'
behalf with respect to the  account.  FTDI will notify Bank from time to time of
the Funds which are  eligible  for  distribution  and the terms of  compensation
under this  Agreement.  This  Agreement is not  exclusive,  and either party may
enter into similar agreements with third parties.  This Agreement supersedes any
prior agreements between the parties, as stated in paragraph 6(j), below.



2. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BANK

  Bank warrants and represents to FTDI and the Funds that:



a) Bank is a "bank" as defined in Section 3(a)(6) of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the "34 Act"):

       "The term `bank' means (A) a banking institution organized under the laws
of the United States,  (B) a member bank of the Federal Reserve System,  (C) any
other banking institution, whether incorporated or not, doing business under the
law of any State or of the United States, a substantial  portion of the business
of which consists of receiving  deposits or exercising a fiduciary power similar
to those  permitted to national banks under the authority of the  Comptroller of
the Currency pursuant to the first section of Public Law 87-722 (12 U.S.C. 92a),
and which is  supervised  and  examined  by State or  Federal  authority  having
supervision over banks, and which is not operated for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this title, and (D) a receiver,  conservator, or other liquidating
agent of any  institution  or firm  included in clauses  (A), (B) or (C) of this
paragraph."



  b) Bank is authorized to enter into this Agreement,  and Bank's performance of
its  obligations  and receipt of  consideration  under this  Agreement  will not
violate any law, regulation,  charter,  agreement,  or regulatory restriction to
which Bank is subject.



  c) Bank has received all regulatory  agency  approvals and taken all legal and
other steps  necessary  for offering the services Bank will provide to Customers
in connection with this Agreement.



3. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE PRINCIPAL UNDERWRITER

  FTDI warrants and represents to Bank that:



  a)     FTDI is a broker/dealer registered under the '34 Act.



  b)     FTDI is the principal underwriter of the Funds.



4. COVENANTS OF BANK

  For each Transaction under this Agreement, Bank will:



  a)     be authorized to engage in the Transaction;



  b)     act as agent for the Customer;



  c)     act solely at the request of and for the account of the Customer;



  d)     not submit an order unless Bank has already received the order from
         the Customer;



  e)     not submit a purchase order unless Bank has already delivered to the
         Customer a copy of the then current prospectus for the Fund(s) whose
         shares are to be purchased;



  f)     not withhold placing any Customer's order for the purpose of profiting
         from the delay;



g)   have no beneficial  ownership of the securities in any purchase Transaction
     (the Customer will have the full beneficial ownership),  unless Bank is the
     Customer (in which case, Bank will not engage in the Transaction unless the
     Transaction is legally permissible for Bank); and



h)   not accept or withhold any Fee otherwise  allowed  under  Sections 5(d) and
     (e) of this  Agreement,  if  prohibited by the Employee  Retirement  Income
     Security  Act  ("ERISA") or trust or similar laws to which Bank is subject,
     in the case of purchases or redemptions  (hereinafter,  "Transactions")  of
     Fund shares involving retirement plans, trusts, or similar accounts.



i)   maintain  records of all sales and  redemptions of shares made through Bank
     and to furnish FTDI with copies of such records on request.



j)   distribute  prospectuses,  statements of additional information and reports
     to Bank's  customers in  compliance  with  applicable  legal  requirements,
     except to the extent that FTDI  expressly  undertakes to do so on behalf of
     Bank.



  While this Agreement is in effect, Bank will:



k)   not  purchase  any  shares  from  any  person  at a price  lower  than  the
     redemption price then quoted by the applicable Fund;



l)   repay FTDI the full Fee  received  by Bank under  Sections  5(d) and (e) of
     this  Agreement,  for any shares  purchased  under this Agreement which are
     repurchased by the Fund within 7 business days after the purchase; in turn,
     FTDI shall pay to the Fund the amount  repaid by Bank and will  notify Bank
     of any such repurchase within a reasonable time;



m)   in  connection  with  orders  for the  purchase  of  shares on behalf of an
     Individual  Retirement  Account,  Self-Employed  Retirement  Plan or  other
     retirement accounts, by mail,  telephone,  or wire, Bank shall act as agent
     for the custodian or trustee of such plans (solely with respect to the time
     of receipt of the  application  and  payments)  and shall not place such an
     order until Bank has received  from its customer  payment for such purchase
     and, if such purchase represents the first contribution to such a plan, the
     completed  documents  necessary  to  establish  the  plan.  Bank  agrees to
     indemnify FTDI and Franklin  Templeton Trust Company and/or Templeton Funds
     Trust Company as  applicable  for any claim,  loss, or liability  resulting
     from incorrect investment instructions received from Bank which cause a tax
     liability or other tax penalty.



n)   be responsible  for  compliance  with all laws and  regulations,  including
     those of the applicable federal and state bank regulatory authorities, with
     regard to Bank and Bank's Customers; and



o)   immediately notify FTDI in writing at the address given below,  should Bank
     cease to be a bank as set forth in Section 2(a) of this Agreement.



5. TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR TRANSACTIONS

 a)     Price

       Transaction orders received from Bank will be accepted only at the public
offering price and in compliance with procedures applicable to each order as set
forth in the then current  prospectus  and statement of  additional  information
(hereinafter,  collectively,  "prospectus")  for the applicable Fund. All orders
must be accompanied by payment in U.S. dollars.  Orders payable by check must be
drawn  payable  in U.S.  dollars  on a U.S.  bank,  for the full  amount  of the
investment.  All sales are made  subject  to  receipt of shares by FTDI from the
Funds. FTDI reserves the right in its discretion, without notice, to suspend the
sale of shares or withdraw the offering of shares entirely.



 b)     Orders and Confirmations

       All purchase orders are subject to acceptance or rejection by FTDI and by
the Fund or its transfer agent at their sole  discretion,  and become  effective
only upon  confirmation  by FTDI.  Transaction  orders  shall be made  using the
procedures and forms required by FTDI from time to time.  Orders received on any
business  day after  the time for  calculating  the price of Fund  shares as set
forth in each Fund's current prospectus will be effected at the price determined
on the next business day. A written  confirming  statement  will be sent to Bank
and to Customer upon settlement of each Transaction.



  c)     Multiple Class Guidelines



       FTDI may from time to time provide to Bank written compliance  guidelines
or standards  relating to the sale or  distribution  of Funds offering  multiple
classes  of  shares  with  different  sales  charges  and   distribution-related
operating expenses.  In addition,  Bank will be bound by any applicable rules or
regulations of government  agencies or self-regulatory  organizations  generally
affecting the sale or distribution of mutual funds offering  multiple classes of
shares.



  d)     Payments by Bank for Purchases



       On the settlement date for each purchase, Bank shall either (i) remit the
full purchase  price by wire transfer to an account  designated by FTDI, or (ii)
following  FTDI's  procedures,  wire the purchase  price less the Fee allowed by
Section  5(e) of this  Agreement.  Twice  monthly,  FTDI  will pay Bank Fees not
previously  paid  to  or  withheld  by  Bank.  Each  calendar  month,  FTDI,  as
applicable,  will  prepare  and  mail  an  activity  statement  summarizing  all
Transactions.



 e)     Fees and Payments

       Where permitted by the prospectus for each Fund, a charge, concession, or
fee  ("Fee")  may be paid to  Bank,  related  to  services  provided  by Bank in
connection  with  Transactions.  The  amount of the Fee,  if any,  is set by the
relevant prospectus. Adjustments in the Fee are available for certain purchases,
and Bank is solely  responsible  for notifying  FTDI when any purchase  order is
qualified  for  such  an  adjustment.  If  Bank  fails  to  notify  FTDI  of the
applicability  of a  reduction  in the  sales  charge  at the time the  trade is
placed,  neither FTDI nor any of the Funds will be liable for amounts  necessary
to reimburse any investor for the reduction which should have been effected.



       In accordance with the Funds'  prospectuses,  FTDI or its affiliates may,
but are not  obligated  to, make  payments  from their own resources to banks or
dealers as compensation  for certain sales which are made at net asset value and
are not subject to any contingent deferred sales charges  ("Qualifying  Sales").
If Bank notifies FTDI of a Qualifying  Sale, FTDI may make a contingent  advance
payment up to the maximum  amount  available  for payment on the sale. If any of
the shares  purchased in a Qualifying  Sale are redeemed within twelve months of
the end of the month of purchase,  FTDI shall be entitled to recover any advance
payment  attributable  to the redeemed shares by reducing any account payable or
other monetary obligation FTDI may owe to Bank or by making demand upon Bank for
repayment in cash.  FTDI reserves the right to withhold  advances to any bank or
dealer,  if for any  reason  it  believes  that  it may  not be able to  recover
unearned advances from such bank or dealer. In addition,  banks and dealers will
generally  be required  to enter into a  supplemental  agreement  with FTDI with
respect to such compensation and the repayment obligation prior to receiving any
payments.



 f)      Rule 12b-1 Plans

       Bank is also  invited to  participate  in all Plans  adopted by the Funds
(the "Plan Funds") pursuant to Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act.



       To the extent Bank provides administrative and other services, including,
but not limited to,  furnishing  personal and other  services and  assistance to
Bank's  customers  who own shares of a Plan Fund,  answering  routine  inquiries
regarding a Fund,  assisting in changing  account  designations  and  addresses,
maintaining  such accounts or such other services as a Fund may require,  to the
extent permitted by applicable statutes,  rules, or regulations,  FTDI shall pay
Bank Rule 12b-1 fees.  All Rule 12b-1 fees shall be based on the value of shares
attributable  to customers of Bank and eligible for such  payment,  and shall be
calculated on the basis and at the rates set forth in the compensation  schedule
then in effect.  Without prior approval by a majority of the outstanding  shares
of a Fund,  the  aggregate  annual fees paid to Bank pursuant to each Plan shall
not  exceed  the  amounts  stated  as  the  "annual  maximums"  in  each  Fund's
prospectus, which amount shall be a specified percent of the value of the Fund's
net assets held in Bank's  customers'  accounts  which are  eligible for payment
pursuant to this  Agreement  (determined in the same manner as each Fund uses to
compute its net assets as set forth in its effective Prospectus).



       Bank  shall  furnish  FTDI and each Fund with such  information  as shall
reasonably be requested by the Board of Directors,  Trustees or Managing General
Partners  (hereinafter referred to as "Directors") of such Funds with respect to
the fees paid to Bank pursuant to the Schedule. FTDI shall furnish to the Boards
of Directors of the Plan Funds, for their review on a quarterly basis, a written
report of the amounts  expended  under the Plans and the purposes for which such
expenditures were made.



       The Plans and provisions of any agreement  relating to such Plans must be
approved annually by a vote of the Plan Funds' Directors, including such persons
who are not  interested  persons  of the Plan  Funds  and who have no  financial
interest in the Plans or any related  agreement  ("Rule 12b-1  Directors").  The
Plans  or the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  relating  to such  Plans  may be
terminated  at any time by the vote of a majority of the Plan  Funds'  Boards of
Directors,  including  Rule 12b-1  Directors,  or by a vote of a majority of the
outstanding  shares of the Plan  Funds,  on sixty  (60)  days'  written  notice,
without  payment of any penalty.  The Plans or the  provisions of this Agreement
may also be terminated by any act that  terminates  the  Underwriting  Agreement
between  FTDI  and the Plan  Funds,  and/or  the  management  or  administration
agreement between Franklin Advisers,  Inc. or Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.
or their  affiliates and the Plan Funds.  In the event of the termination of the
Plans for any reason,  the  provisions of this  Agreement  relating to the Plans
will also terminate.



       Continuation  of the Plans and provisions of this  Agreement  relating to
such Plans are conditioned on Rule 12b-1 Directors being ultimately  responsible
for selecting and  nominating  any new Rule 12b-1  Directors.  Under Rule 12b-1,
Directors  of any of the Plan  Funds have a duty to request  and  evaluate,  and
persons who are party to any agreement related to a Plan have a duty to furnish,
such information as may reasonably be necessary to an informed  determination of
whether the Plan or any agreement should be implemented or continued. Under Rule
12b-1, Plan Funds are permitted to implement or continue Plans or the provisions
of this  Agreement  relating to such Plans from  year-to-year  only if, based on
certain legal considerations,  the Boards of Directors are able to conclude that
the Plans will  benefit the Plan Funds.  Absent such yearly  determination,  the
Plans  and the  provisions  of this  Agreement  relating  to the  Plans  must be
terminated as set forth above.  In addition,  any  obligation  assumed by a Fund
pursuant to this  Agreement  shall be limited in all cases to the assets of such
Fund and no person shall seek satisfaction  thereof from shareholders of a Fund.
Bank  agrees to waive  payment  of any  amounts  payable to Bank by FTDI under a
Fund's Plan of Distribution pursuant to Rule 12b-1 until such time as FTDI is in
receipt of such fee from the Fund.



       The  provisions  of the Rule 12b-1 Plans between the Plan Funds and FTDI,
insofar as they  relate to Plans,  shall  control  over the  provisions  of this
Agreement in the event of any inconsistency.



 g)     Other Distribution Services

       From time to time, FTDI may offer telephone and other augmented  services
in connection  with  Transactions  under this  Agreement.  If Bank uses any such
service,  Bank will be  subject to the  procedures  applicable  to the  service,
whether or not Bank has executed any agreement required for the service.



 h)      Conditional Orders; Certificates

       FTDI will not accept any  conditional  Transaction  orders.  Delivery  of
certificates  or  confirmations  for shares  purchased shall be made by the Fund
conditional upon receipt of the purchase price, subject to deduction of any Fee.
No certificates will be issued unless specifically requested.



 i)     Cancellation of Orders

       If payment for shares purchased is not received within the time customary
or the time required by law for such payment,  the sale may be canceled  without
notice or demand, and neither FTDI nor the Fund(s) shall have any responsibility
or liability for such a  cancellation;  alternatively,  the unpaid shares may be
sold back to the Fund,  and Bank shall be liable for any resulting  loss to FTDI
or to the  Fund(s).  FTDI  shall have no  liability  for any check or other item
returned unpaid to Bank after Bank has paid FTDI on behalf of a purchaser.  FTDI
may refuse to liquidate the investment unless it receives the purchaser's signed
authorization for the liquidation.



 j)     Order Corrections

       Bank shall assume  responsibility  for any loss to a Fund(s)  caused by a
correction made subsequent to trade date, provided such correction was not based
on any error,  omission or negligence on FTDI's part, and Bank will  immediately
pay such loss to the Fund(s) upon notification.



 k)     Redemptions; Cancellation

       Redemptions  or repurchases of shares will be made at the net asset value
of such shares,  less any applicable  deferred sales or redemption  charges,  in
accordance with the applicable prospectuses.  As agent, Bank may sell shares for
the  account  of the  record  owner to the Funds at the  repurchase  price  then
currently  in effect  for such  shares  and may  charge the owner a fair fee for
handling  the   transaction.   If  on  a  redemption  which  Bank  has  ordered,
instructions  in  proper  form,  including  outstanding  certificates,  are  not
received  within the time  customary or the time required by law, the redemption
may be canceled forthwith without any responsibility or liability on the part of
FTDI or any Fund, or at its option FTDI may buy the shares redeemed on behalf of
the Fund, in which latter case it may hold Bank  responsible for any loss to the
Fund or loss of profit  suffered by FTDI resulting from Bank's failure to settle
the redemption.



 l)     Exchanges

       Telephone  exchange  orders  will be  effective  only for  shares in plan
balance  (uncertificated  shares)  or for  which  share  certificates  have been
previously  deposited and may be subject to any fees or other  restrictions  set
forth in the applicable prospectuses. Bank may charge the shareholder a fair fee
for handling an exchange  transaction.  Exchanges from a Fund sold with no sales
charge to a Fund which  carries a sales charge,  and exchanges  from a Fund sold
with a sales charge to a Fund which carries a higher sales charge may be subject
to a sales charge in accordance with the terms of each Fund's  prospectus.  Bank
will be obligated to comply with any additional  exchange policies  described in
each Fund's  prospectus,  including without limitation any policy restricting or
prohibiting "Timing Accounts" as therein defined.



 m)     Qualification of Shares; Indemnification

       Upon request, FTDI shall notify Bank of the states or other jurisdictions
in which each Fund's  shares are  currently  registered or qualified for sale to
the public. FTDI shall have no obligation to register or qualify, or to maintain
registration   or   qualification   of,  Fund  shares  in  any  state  or  other
jurisdiction.  FTDI shall have no responsibility,  under the laws regulating the
sale of securities in any U.S. or foreign jurisdiction, for the qualification or
status of persons  selling Fund shares or for the manner of sale of Fund shares.
Except as stated in this  paragraph,  FTDI shall not, in any event, be liable or
responsible  for the issue,  form,  validity,  enforceability  and value of such
shares  or for  any  matter  in  connection  therewith,  and no  obligation  not
expressly assumed by FTDI in this Agreement shall be implied. If it is necessary
to register or qualify shares of any Fund in any foreign  jurisdictions in which
Bank intends to offer such shares,  it will be Bank's  responsibility to arrange
for and to pay the costs of such  registration  or  qualification;  prior to any
such  registration or  qualification  Bank will notify FTDI of its intent and of
any  limitations  that  might be  imposed  on the Funds and Bank  agrees  not to
proceed with such  registration or qualification  without the written consent of
the Funds and of FTDI.



       Bank further agrees to indemnify,  defend and hold harmless the Principal
Underwriter, the Funds, their officers, directors and employees from any and all
losses,  claims,  liabilities  and  expenses,  arising  out of (1)  any  alleged
violation  of any  statute  or  regulation  (including  without  limitation  the
securities  laws and  regulations  of the United  States or any state or foreign
country) or any alleged tort or breach of  contract,  in or related to the offer
and sale by Bank of shares of the Funds  pursuant to this  Agreement  (except to
the extent  that FTDI's  negligence  or failure to follow  correct  instructions
received from Bank is the cause of such loss, claim,  liability or expense), (2)
any redemption or exchange pursuant to telephone instructions received from Bank
or its  agents or  employees,  or (3) the breach by Bank of any of the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.



       However,  nothing in this  Agreement  shall be deemed to be a  condition,
stipulation,  or provision  binding any person  acquiring  any security to waive
compliance with any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, or of the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or to relieve the parties
hereto from any liability arising under the Securities Act of 1933.


 n)     Prospectus and Sales Materials; Limit on Advertising

       No  person  is   authorized   to  give  any   information   or  make  any
representations  concerning  shares of any Fund except  those  contained  in the
Fund's  current  prospectus  or in  materials  issued  by  FTDI  as  information
supplemental  to such  prospectus.  FTDI will  supply  prospectuses,  reasonable
quantities of supplemental  sale  literature,  sales  bulletins,  and additional
information  as  issued.  Bank  agrees  not to use  other  advertising  or sales
material   relating  to  the  Funds  except  that  which  (a)  conforms  to  the
requirements  of  any  applicable  laws  or  regulations  of any  government  or
authorized agency in the U.S. or any other country, having jurisdiction over the
offering or sale of shares of the Funds,  and (b) is approved in writing by FTDI
in advance of such use.  Such  approval  may be withdrawn by FTDI in whole or in
part  upon  notice  to Bank,  and  Bank  shall,  upon  receipt  of such  notice,
immediately  discontinue  the use of such sales  literature,  sales material and
advertising.  Bank is not  authorized to modify or translate any such  materials
without the prior written consent of FTDI.



 o)     Customer Information

       (1)  Definition.  For  purposes  of this  paragraph  5(h)(iv),  `Customer
Information' means customer names and other identifying  information  pertaining
to  Bank's  mutual  fund  customers  which is  furnished  by Bank to FTDI in the
ordinary course of business under this Agreement. Customer Information shall not
include any information obtained from other sources.



       (2)  Permitted  Uses.  FTDI may use Customer  Information  to fulfill its
obligations under this Agreement,  the Distribution Agreements between the Funds
and FTDI, the Funds' prospectuses,  or other duties imposed by law. In addition,
FTDI or its  affiliates  may  use  Customer  Information  in  communications  to
shareholders  to market  the Funds or other  investment  products  or  services,
including without limitation  variable annuities,  variable life insurance,  and
retirement plans and related services. FTDI may also use Customer Information if
it obtains Bank's prior written consent.



       (3)  Prohibited  Uses.  Except as stated  above,  FTDI shall not disclose
Customer Information to third parties, and shall not use Customer Information in
connection  with any  advertising,  marketing or solicitation of any products or
services,  provided that Bank offers or soon expect to offer comparable products
or services to mutual fund customers and have so notified FTDI.



       (4) Survival;  Termination.  The  agreements  described in this paragraph
5(h)(iv) shall survive the termination of this Agreement, but shall terminate as
to any  account  upon  FTDI's  receipt  of  valid  notification  of  either  the
termination of that account with Bank or the transfer of that account to another
bank or dealer.



6. GENERAL

 a)     Successors and Assignments

       This Agreement binds Bank and FTDI and their respective heirs, successors
and  assigns.  Bank may not  assign its right and  duties  under this  Agreement
without the advance, written authorization of FTDI.



 b)     Paragraph Headings

       The paragraph  headings of this Agreement are for  convenience  only, and
shall not be deemed to define,  limit,  or describe  the scope or intent of this
Agreement.



 c)     Severability

       Should any  provision of this  Agreement be  determined  to be invalid or
unenforceable  under any law, rule, or regulation,  that determination shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.



 d)     Waivers

       There  shall be no waiver of any  provision  of this  Agreement  except a
written  waiver  signed by Bank and FTDI.  No written  waiver  shall be deemed a
continuing  waiver  or a  waiver  of any  other  provision,  unless  the  waiver
expresses such intention.



 e)     Sole Agreement

       This  Agreement is the entire  agreement of Bank and FTDI and  supersedes
all oral negotiations and prior writings.



 f)     Governing Law

       This  Agreement  shall be  construed in  accordance  with the laws of the
State of California, not including any provision which would require the general
application  of the law of another  jurisdiction,  and shall be binding upon the
parties  hereto  when  signed  by FTDI and  accepted  by Bank,  either by Bank's
signature in the space  provided  below or by Bank's first trade  entered  after
receipt of this Agreement.



 g)     Arbitration

       Should any of Bank's concession  accounts with FTDI have a debit balance,
FTDI may offset and recover the amount owed from any other account Bank has with
FTDI,  without  notice or demand to Bank.  Either  party may submit any  dispute
under this Agreement to binding  arbitration  under the  commercial  arbitration
rules of the American  Arbitration  Association.  Judgment upon any  arbitration
award may be entered by any state or federal court having jurisdiction.



 h)     Amendments

       FTDI may amend this  Agreement at any time by depositing a written notice
of the amendment in the U.S. mail,  first class postage  pre-paid,  addressed to
Bank's  address  given  below.  Bank's  placement  of any  Transaction  order or
acceptance of any payments after the effective date and receipt of notice of any
such amendment shall constitute Bank's acceptance of the amendment.



 i)     Term and Termination

       This Agreement  shall continue in effect until  terminated.  FTDI or Bank
may terminate  this  Agreement at any time by written  notice to the other,  but
such  termination  shall  not  affect  the  payment  or  repayment  of  Fees  on
Transactions prior to the termination date. Termination also will not affect the
indemnities given under this Agreement.



 j)     Acceptance; Cumulative Effect

       This Agreement is cumulative  and supersedes any agreement  previously in
effect.  It shall be binding  upon the  parties  hereto  when signed by FTDI and
accepted by Bank. If Bank has a current  agreement with FTDI, Bank's first trade
or acceptance of payments from FTDI after receipt of this  Agreement,  as it may
be amended pursuant to paragraph 6(h), above, shall constitute Bank's acceptance
of the  terms  of  this  Agreement.  Otherwise,  Bank's  signature  below  shall
constitute Bank's acceptance of these terms.




FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON DISTRIBUTORS, INC.



By:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Greg Johnson, President

777 Mariners Island Blvd.
San Mateo, CA 94404
Attention: Chief Legal Officer (for legal notices only)
415/312-2000
700 Central Avenue
St. Petersburg, Florida 33701-3628
813/823-8712



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


To the Bank or Trust  Company:  If you have not  previously  signed an agreement
with us for the sale of mutual fund shares to your  customers,  please  complete
and sign this section and return the original to us.

BANK or TRUST COMPANY


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Firm's name)

By:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Signature)

Name:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Title:




Address:







Telephone:



#

95.89/108(06/95)






                                  EXHIBIT 10.21




                         FRANKLIN VALUE INVESTORS TRUST
                                  on behalf of
                          FRANKLIN MICROCAP VALUE FUND

                              MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT



     THIS MANAGEMENT  AGREEMENT made between  Franklin Value Investors  Trust, a
Massachusetts business trust (the "Trust"), on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value
Fund (the  "Fund"),  a series of the  Trust,  and  FRANKLIN  ADVISERS,  INC.,  a
California corporation, (the "Manager").

     WHEREAS,  the  Trust  has been  organized  and  intends  to  operate  as an
investment  company  registered  under the  Investment  Company Act of 1940 (the
"1940  Act")  for the  purpose  of  investing  and  reinvesting  its  assets  in
securities,  as set forth in its Agreement and Declaration of Trust, its By-Laws
and its  Registration  Statements  under the 1940 Act and the  Securities Act of
1933, all as heretofore and hereafter  amended and  supplemented;  and the Trust
desires to avail itself of the services,  information,  advice,  assistance  and
facilities of an investment  manager and to have an investment  manager  perform
various  management,   statistical,  research,  investment  advisory  and  other
services for the Fund; and,

     WHEREAS,  the Manager is  registered  as an  investment  adviser  under the
Investment  Advisers  Act of 1940,  is  engaged  in the  business  of  rendering
management,   investment  advisory,   counseling  and  supervisory  services  to
investment  companies and other investment  counseling  clients,  and desires to
provide these services to the Fund.

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth, it is mutually agreed as follows:

     l.  Employment  of the  Manager.  The Trust  hereby  employs the Manager to
manage the  investment and  reinvestment  of the Fund's assets and to administer
its affairs,  subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees and the officers
of the Trust, for the period and on the terms hereinafter set forth. The Manager
hereby  accepts  such  employment  and agrees  during  such period to render the
services  and to assume the  obligations  herein set forth for the  compensation
herein  provided.  The Manager shall for all purposes  herein be deemed to be an
independent  contractor  and shall,  except as expressly  provided or authorized
(whether  herein or  otherwise),  have no authority to act for or represent  the
Fund or the Trust in any way or  otherwise be deemed an agent of the Fund or the
Trust.

     2.  Obligations of and Services to be Provided by the Manager.  The Manager
undertakes  to  provide  the  services  hereinafter  set forth and to assume the
following obligations:

          A.  Administrative  Services.  The Manager  shall  furnish to the Fund
adequate (i) office space,  which may be space within the offices of the Manager
or in such  other  place as may be agreed  upon from time to time,  (ii)  office
furnishings, facilities and equipment as may be reasonably required for managing
the affairs  and  conducting  the  business  of the Fund,  including  conducting
correspondence  and  other  communications  with the  shareholders  of the Fund,
maintaining  all internal  bookkeeping,  accounting  and  auditing  services and
records in connection with the Fund's  investment and business  activities.  The
Manager shall employ or provide and compensate the  executive,  secretarial  and
clerical  personnel  necessary to provide such services.  The Manager shall also
compensate all officers and employees of the Trust who are officers or employees
of the Manager or its affiliates.

     B.     Investment Management Services.

          (a) The  Manager  shall  manage  the Fund's  assets  subject to and in
accordance  with the  investment  objectives  and  policies  of the Fund and any
directions  which the Trust's  Board of Trustees may issue from time to time. In
pursuance  of the  foregoing,  the Manager  shall make all  determinations  with
respect to the  investment of the Fund's assets and the purchase and sale of its
investment  securities,  and  shall  take  such  steps  as may be  necessary  to
implement the same. Such  determinations and services shall include  determining
the manner in which any voting rights, rights to consent to corporate action and
any  other  rights  pertaining  to the  Fund's  investment  securities  shall be
exercised.  The Manager shall render or cause to be rendered  regular reports to
the Trust, at regular  meetings of its Board of Trustees and at such other times
as may be  reasonably  requested by the Trust's  Board of  Trustees,  of (i) the
decisions  made with  respect to the  investment  of the  Fund's  assets and the
purchase  and  sale of its  investment  securities,  (ii) the  reasons  for such
decisions and (iii) the extent to which those decisions have been implemented.

          (b) The  Manager,  subject to and in  accordance  with any  directions
which the Trust's Board of Trustees may issue from time to time, shall place, in
the  name  of the  Fund,  orders  for the  execution  of the  Fund's  securities
transactions.  When placing such  orders,  the Manager  shall seek to obtain the
best net price and execution  for the Fund,  but this  requirement  shall not be
deemed  to  obligate  the  Manager  to place  any  order  solely on the basis of
obtaining the lowest  commission  rate if the other  standards set forth in this
section have been satisfied.  The parties  recognize that there are likely to be
many cases in which  different  brokers  are equally  able to provide  such best
price and execution  and that,  in selecting  among such brokers with respect to
particular trades, it is desirable to choose those brokers who furnish research,
statistical,  quotations  and other  information  to the Fund and the Manager in
accordance with the standards set forth below.  Moreover,  to the extent that it
continues to be lawful to do so and so long as the Board of Trustees  determines
that the Fund will benefit, directly or indirectly, by doing so, the Manager may
place orders with a broker who charges a commission for that  transaction  which
is in excess of the amount of commission  that another broker would have charged
for  effecting  that  transaction,   provided  that  the  excess  commission  is
reasonable  in relation to the value of  "brokerage  and research  services" (as
defined in Section 28(e) (3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) provided by
that broker.

     Accordingly,  the Trust and the Manager agree that the Manager shall select
brokers for the execution of the Fund's transactions from among:

     (i)  Those brokers and dealers who provide quotations and other services to
          the Fund, specifically including the quotations necessary to determine
          the  Fund's  net  assets,  in such  amount of total  brokerage  as may
          reasonably be required in light of such services; and

     (ii) Those brokers and dealers who supply  research,  statistical and other
          data  to the  Manager  or its  affiliates  which  the  Manager  or its
          affiliates  may lawfully  and  appropriately  use in their  investment
          advisory  capacities,  which relate directly to securities,  actual or
          potential,  of the  Fund,  or  which  place  the  Manager  in a better
          position to make  decisions in connection  with the  management of the
          Fund's  assets  and  securities,  whether or not such data may also be
          useful to the Manager and its affiliates in managing other  portfolios
          or advising  other clients,  in such amount of total  brokerage as may
          reasonably  be  required.  Provided  that  the  Trust's  officers  are
          satisfied that the best  execution is obtained,  the sale of shares of
          the Fund may  also be  considered  as a  factor  in the  selection  of
          broker-dealers to execute the Fund's portfolio transactions.


     (c) When the Manager has determined that the Fund should tender  securities
pursuant to a "tender offer solicitation," Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.
("Distributors")  shall be designated as the "tendering dealer" so long as it is
legally permitted to act in such capacity under the federal  securities laws and
rules  thereunder  and the rules of any  securities  exchange or  association of
which  Distributors may be a member.  Neither the Manager nor Distributors shall
be obligated to make any additional commitments of capital, expense or personnel
beyond that  already  committed  (other than  normal  periodic  fees or payments
necessary to maintain its  corporate  existence  and  membership in the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) as of the date of this Agreement.  This
Agreement shall not obligate the Manager or Distributors  (i) to act pursuant to
the foregoing requirement under any circumstances in which they might reasonably
believe that liability  might be imposed upon them as a result of so acting,  or
(ii) to  institute  legal or other  proceedings  to  collect  fees  which may be
considered to be due from others to it as a result of such a tender,  unless the
Trust on behalf of the Fund  shall  enter  into an  agreement  with the  Manager
and/or  Distributors  to reimburse  them for all such  expenses  connected  with
attempting  to collect  such fees,  including  legal fees and  expenses and that
portion of the  compensation due to their employees which is attributable to the
time involved in attempting to collect such fees.

     (d) The  Manager  shall  render  regular  reports  to the  Trust,  not more
frequently than quarterly,  of how much total brokerage business has been placed
by the Manager,  on behalf of the Fund,  with  brokers  falling into each of the
categories  referred  to above and the manner in which the  allocation  has been
accomplished.

               (e) The Manager  agrees that no investment  decision will be made
or influenced by a desire to provide brokerage for allocation in accordance with
the foregoing, and that the right to make such allocation of brokerage shall not
interfere  with the  Manager's  paramount  duty to obtain the best net price and
execution for the Fund.

          C.  Provision of Information  Necessary for  Preparation of Securities
Registration  Statements,  Amendments  and Other  Materials.  The  Manager,  its
officers  and  employees  will  make   available  and  provide   accounting  and
statistical  information required by the Fund in the preparation of registration
statements, reports and other documents required by federal and state securities
laws and with such information as the Fund may reasonably request for use in the
preparation of such documents or of other materials necessary or helpful for the
underwriting and distribution of the Fund's shares.

     D. Other Obligations and Services.  The Manager shall make its officers and
employees  available  to the Board of  Trustees  and  officers  of the Trust for
consultation and discussions  regarding the administration and management of the
Fund and its investment activities.

     3. Expenses of the Fund. It is understood that the Fund will pay all of its
own expenses other than those  expressly  assumed by the Manager  herein,  which
expenses payable by the Fund shall include:

     A. Fees and expenses paid to the Manager as provided herein;

     B. Expenses of all audits by independent public accountants;

     C. Expenses of transfer agent,  registrar,  custodian,  dividend disbursing
agent and shareholder record-keeping services,  including the expenses of issue,
repurchase or redemption of its shares;

     D. Expenses of obtaining quotations for calculating the value of the Fund's
net assets;

     E. Salaries and other  compensations of executive officers of the Trust who
are not  officers,  directors,  stockholders  or employees of the Manager or its
affiliates;

     F. Taxes levied against the Fund;

     G. Brokerage fees and  commissions in connection with the purchase and sale
of securities for the Fund;

     H. Costs, including the interest expense, of borrowing money;

     I. Costs incident to meetings of the Board of Trustees and  shareholders of
the Fund,  reports  to the  Fund's  shareholders,  the  filing of  reports  with
regulatory  bodies  and the  maintenance  of the Fund's  and the  Trust's  legal
existence;

     J. Legal fees,  including  the legal fees related to the  registration  and
continued qualification of the Fund's shares for sale;

     K. Trustees' fees and expenses to trustees who are not directors, officers,
employees or stockholders of the Manager or any of its affiliates;

     L. Costs and expense of registering and maintaining the registration of the
Fund and its shares under federal and any applicable  state laws;  including the
printing and mailing of prospectuses to its shareholders;

     M. Trade association dues; and

     N. The Fund's pro rata portion of fidelity bond, errors and omissions,  and
trustees and officer liability insurance premiums.

     4. Compensation of the Manager. The Fund shall pay a management fee in cash
to the Manager  based upon a  percentage  of the value of the Fund's net assets,
calculated as set forth below,  as  compensation  for the services  rendered and
obligations  assumed by the Manager,  during the preceding  month,  on the first
business day of the month in each year.

          A. For purposes of  calculating  such fee, the value of the net assets
of the Fund shall be  determined  in the same manner as the Fund uses to compute
the value of its net  assets in  connection  with the  determination  of the net
asset  value of its  shares,  all as set forth more fully in the Fund's  current
prospectus and statement of additional  information.  The rate of the management
fee  payable by the Fund shall be  calculated  daily at the rate of .75% (.75 of
1%) of the Fund's average daily net assets.

          B. The  management  fee  payable  by the  Fund  shall  be  reduced  or
eliminated to the extent that  Distributors has actually  received cash payments
of tender offer  solicitation  fees less certain costs and expenses  incurred in
connection  therewith and to the extent necessary to comply with the limitations
on expenses which may be borne by the Fund as set forth in the laws, regulations
and  administrative  interpretations  of those states in which the Fund's shares
are registered.  The Manager may waive all or a portion of its fees provided for
hereunder  and such waiver shall be treated as a reduction in purchase  price of
its services. The Manager shall be contractually bound hereunder by the terms of
any  publicly  announced  waiver of its fee,  or any  limitation  of the  Fund's
expenses, as if such waiver or limitation were fully set forth herein.

          C.     If this Agreement is terminated prior to the end of any month,
 the accrued management fee shall be paid to the date of termination.

     5.  Activities  of the  Manager.  The  services  of the Manager to the Fund
hereunder  are  not to be  deemed  exclusive,  and  the  Manager  and any of its
affiliates shall be free to render similar services to others. Subject to and in
accordance  with the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and By-Laws of the Trust
and Section 10(a) of the 1940 Act, it is  understood  that  trustees,  officers,
agents and  shareholders of the Trust are or may be interested in the Manager or
its affiliates as directors,  officers, agents or stockholders;  that directors,
officers,  agents or stockholders of the Manager or its affiliates are or may be
interested  in  the  Trust  as  trustees,   officers,  agents,  shareholders  or
otherwise;  that the Manager or its  affiliates may be interested in the Fund as
shareholders  or otherwise;  and that the effect of any such interests  shall be
governed by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust, By-Laws and the 1940 Act.

     6.     Liabilities of the Manager.

          A. In the absence of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence,
or reckless  disregard  of  obligations  or duties  hereunder on the part of the
Manager,  the Manager shall not be subject to liability to the Trust or the Fund
or to any  shareholder  of the Fund for any act or omission in the course of, or
connected  with,  rendering  services  hereunder  or for any losses  that may be
sustained in the purchase, holding or sale of any security by the Fund.

          B. Notwithstanding the foregoing,  the Manager agrees to reimburse the
Trust for any and all costs, expenses, and counsel and trustees' fees reasonably
incurred by the Trust in the  preparation,  printing and  distribution  of proxy
statements,  amendments to its Registration  Statement,  holdings of meetings of
its shareholders or trustees, the conduct of factual  investigations,  any legal
or  administrative  proceedings  (including any  applications  for exemptions or
determinations by the Securities and Exchange Commission) which the Trust incurs
as the result of action or inaction of the Manager or any of its  affiliates  or
any of their officers, directors,  employees or stockholders where the action or
inaction  necessitating  such expenditures (i) is directly or indirectly related
to any  transactions  or  proposed  transaction  in the stock or  control of the
Manager or its affiliates  (or litigation  related to any pending or proposed or
future  transaction in such shares or control) which shall have been  undertaken
without the prior,  express approval of the Trust's Board of Trustees;  or, (ii)
is within the  control of the Manager or any of its  affiliates  or any of their
officers,  directors,  employees  or  stockholders.  The  Manager  shall  not be
obligated pursuant to the provisions of this Subparagraph 6(B), to reimburse the
Trust for any  expenditures  related  to the  institution  of an  administrative
proceeding or civil litigation by the Trust or a shareholder  seeking to recover
all or a portion of the proceeds  derived by any  stockholder  of the Manager or
any of its  affiliates  from the sale of his shares of the  Manager,  or similar
matters.  So long as this  Agreement is in effect,  the Manager shall pay to the
Trust the amount due for expenses  subject to this  Subparagraph  6(B) within 30
days after a bill or statement has been received by the Manager  therefor.  This
provision  shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any claim the Trust may have or
may  assert  against  the  Manager  or others  for  costs,  expenses  or damages
heretofore incurred by the Trust or for costs, expenses or damages the Trust may
hereafter incur which are not reimbursable to it hereunder.

          C. No  provision of this  Agreement  shall be construed to protect any
trustee or officer of the Trust,  or  director or officer of the  Manager,  from
liability in violation of Sections 17(h) and (i) of the 1940 Act.

     7.     Renewal and Termination.

          A. This Agreement shall become effective on the date written below and
shall continue in effect for two (2) years thereafter,  unless sooner terminated
as hereinafter  provided and shall continue in effect thereafter for periods not
exceeding  one  (1)  year so long as such  continuation  is  approved  at  least
annually (i) by a vote of a majority of the  outstanding  voting  securities  of
each Fund or by a vote of the Board of Trustees of the Trust, and (ii) by a vote
of a majority of the Trustees of the Trust who are not parties to the  Agreement
(other than as Trustees  of the Trust),  cast in person at a meeting  called for
the purpose of voting on the Agreement.

          B.     This Agreement:

               (i) may at any time be  terminated  without  the  payment  of any
penalty  either  by vote of the Board of  Trustees  of the Trust or by vote of a
majority of the  outstanding  voting  securities of the Fund on 60 days' written
notice to the Manager;

               (ii)     shall immediately terminate with respect to the Fund
in the event of its assignment; and

                (iii)   may be terminated by the Manager on 60 days' written
 notice to the Fund.

          C. As  used in this  Paragraph  the  terms  "assignment,"  "interested
person" and "vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities" shall have
the meanings set forth for any such terms in the 1940 Act.

          D. Any notice under this Agreement shall be given in writing addressed
and delivered, or mailed post-paid, to the other party at any office of such
 party.

     8.  Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held or made
invalid by a court decision,  statute, rule or otherwise,  the remainder of this
Agreement shall not be affected thereby.

     9.  Governing  Law.  This  Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of California.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed
and effective on the 12th day of December, 1995.


FRANKLIN VALUE INVESTORS TRUST



By:



FRANKLIN ADVISERS, INC.



By:







                                  EXHIBIT 10.22


                           SUB-DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

     THIS  AGREEMENT,  made as of the  ____  day of  _____________,  1995 by and
between TEMPLETON, GALBRAITH & HANSBERGER LTD., a company incorporated under the
laws of the  Commonwealth of the Bahamas,  with its principal  office in Nassau,
Bahamas, which serves as Principal Distributor (the "Principal  Distributor") of
the  Templeton  Global  Strategy  SICAV,  a Societe  d'investissement  a capital
variable, incorporated under the laws of the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, with its
registered office at Centre Neuberg, 30 Grand-rue,  Luxembourg  (hereinafter the
"SICAV") and  __________________  who shall serve as a sub-distributor for sales
of shares of the SICAV (the "Sub-Distributor"). The SICAV is offering its shares
("Shares") to the public through the Principal  Distributor  in accordance  with
the terms and  conditions  contained in the  Prospectus  of the SICAV.  The term
"Prospectus"  used herein  refers to the  Prospectus  on file with the  Institut
Monetaire  Luxembourgois  as such may be  supplemented or amended for use in any
given  jurisdiction.  In connection with the foregoing,  the Sub-Distributor may
serve as a participating  sub-distributor for the Principal Distributor. In this
capacity,  Sub-Distributor  accepts  orders for the  purchase or  redemption  of
Shares,  responds to shareholder inquiries and performs other related functions.
In  addition,  the  Sub-Distributor  is charged  with the  obligation  to render
ongoing  assistance to those clients from which it has procured  orders.  All of
the functions of the  Sub-Distributor  will be performed on the following  terms
and conditions:

     1. APPOINTMENT.  Principal Distributor hereby appoints Sub-Distributor as a
nonexclusive  distributor  for the sale of the  Shares  in  compliance  with all
applicable  laws  and  prior  qualification  of  SICAV  Shares  for sale in each
particular jurisdiction where necessary, subject in all cases to the delivery of
the Prospectus.

     2. MANDATE.  Sub-Distributor  agrees to use its best efforts to bring about
and  maintain  a broad  distribution  of the Shares  among  bona fide  investors
(except United States citizens and residents).

     3. SALES OF SHARES.  All of the shares sold under this  Agreement  shall be
sold only at the offering  price in effect at the time of such sale as described
in the current Prospectus.

     4.   LIMITATION  OF  AUTHORITY.   No  person  is  authorized  to  make  any
representations concerning the SICAV or the Shares except those contained in the
Prospectus  and in such printed  information  as the Principal  Distributor  may
subsequently  prepare or approve in writing  without the express  prior  written
approval of the Principal Distributor. No person is authorized to distribute any
sales material  relating to the SICAV without the express prior written approval
of such sales material by the Principal Distributor.

     5.  COMPENSATION.  As compensation for such services hereunder with respect
to sales of "Class A" Shares, the Principal Distributor shall, during the period
of effectiveness of this Agreement,  (i) re-allow to  Sub-Distributor xx percent
(xx%) of the applicable initial sales charges as set forth in Addendum 1 to this
Agreement which is incorporated by reference herein and (ii) pay Sub-Distributor
a  shareholder  processing  and  servicing fee computed at an annual rate of the
value of the  average  daily net  assets  representing  "Class A" Shares of each
SICAV sub-fund maintained by Sub-Distributor's customers in shareholder accounts
with  the   custodian/transfer   agent  of  the  SICAV   during  the  period  of
effectiveness  of this  Agreement  and as set forth in Addendum 1. Such payments
shall be made semi-annually in arrears.

          As compensation  for such services  hereunder with respect to sales of
"Class  B"  Shares,  the  Principal  Distributor  shall,  during  the  period of
effectiveness  of this  Agreement,  (i) pay to  Sub-Distributor  the  applicable
commissions as set forth in Addendum 2 which is incorporated by reference herein
and (ii) pay Sub-Distributor a shareholder processing and servicing fee computed
at an annual  rate of the value of the  average  daily net  assets  representing
"Class  B"  Shares  of  each  SICAV  sub-fund  maintained  by  Sub-Distributor's
customers in shareholder accounts with the custodian/transfer agent of the SICAV
during  the  period  of  effectiveness  of this  Agreement  and as set  forth in
Addendum 2. Such payments shall be made semi-annually in arrears commencing with
the thirteenth (13th) month after the effective date of this Agreement.  No such
shareholder  processing  and  servicing  fee will be payable with respect to the
initial twelve (12) months after the effective date of this Agreement.

          Sales  commissions  are subject to change  without notice by Principal
Distributor.  Orders accepted by Sub-Distributor  shall be accepted by Principal
Distributor at the address of the SICAV. All orders are subject to acceptance by
Principal  Distributor,  and the Board of  Directors  of the SICAV  reserves the
right in its sole  discretion  to reject any order.  Orders shall be placed with
the SICAV in  immediately  available U.S.  Dollar,  Deutsche Mark or Swiss Franc
funds  according to the terms of the Prospectus and accompanied by such customer
information as Principal Distributor may from time to time require.

     6.  PROSPECTUS  AND  REPORTS.  Sub-Distributor  agrees to  comply  with all
applicable  laws and regulations  governing the  distribution of Prospectuses to
persons to whom Sub-Distributor offers Shares. Sub-Distributor further agrees to
deliver  promptly  upon  Principal  Distributor's  request  and in the  event of
Principal  Distributor  not so delivering,  copies of any amended  Prospectus to
purchasers  whose  Shares  Sub-Distributor  is  holding  as record  owner and to
deliver in the event of Principal  Distributor not so delivering to such persons
copies of the SICAV's annual and interim reports and other materials as required
from time to time by the  SICAV.  Principal  Distributor  agrees to  furnish  to
Sub-Distributor  as many copies of each  Prospectus,  annual and interim reports
and other available printed materials as Sub-Distributor may reasonably request.

     7.  QUALIFICATION  TO ACT.  Sub-Distributor  agrees  that it will not offer
Shares to persons in any jurisdiction in which  Sub-Distributor or the SICAV may
not lawfully make such offer due to the fact that  Sub-Distributor  or the SICAV
may  not  have  registered   under,  or  is  not  exempt  from,  the  applicable
registration,  qualification  or licensing  requirements  of such  jurisdiction.
Sub-Distributor  also agrees that it will place orders  immediately upon receipt
and will not withhold any order so as to profit  therefrom.  In determining  the
amounts payable to Sub-Distributor hereunder, Principal Distributor reserves the
right to exclude any sales that Principal  Distributor may reasonably  determine
were not made in  accordance  with the terms of the  Prospectus or provisions of
this Agreement.

     8.  LIMITATION  ON  SALES.  (a) The  Shares  are not  registered  under the
Securities  Act of 1933,  and the SICAV is not  registered  under the Investment
Company  Act of 1940.  Neither  Sub-Distributor  nor any  person  acting  on its
behalf, including any affiliate or sales or marketing agent, will offer to sell,
offer for sale or sell, directly or indirectly,  or solicit any offer to buy any
Shares  in  the  United  States  of  America   (including  its  territories  and
possessions),  or Canada, or to or for the benefit of U.S. persons, as described
in the Prospectus and in Addendum 3 herein, without the prior written consent of
the SICAV and the Principal  Distributor.  Sub-Distributor  shall obtain written
assurances  from each subscriber for Shares that such subscriber is not a United
States  person as  described  in the  Prospectus  and  Addendum  3  herein,  and
Sub-Distributor  shall  obtain  from each  subscriber  who is offered  shares by
Sub-Distributor a certificate as to the matters set forth in Addendum 3 hereto.

          (b)     The Sub-Distributor shall offer or make available Shares only:

               (i) to  Sub-Distributor's  customers or clients in  circumstances
      where the  Sub-Distributor  has  satisfied  itself that the due  diligence
      required  pursuant  to IML  Circular  94/112  (the  "Circular")  as may be
      amended from time to time has been carried out;

               (ii) when  Sub-Distributor  has no reason to know or suspect that
      the source of the funds  would not  comply  with the  requirements  of the
      Circular and the European  Communities  Council Directive  91/308/EEC (the
      "Directive");

               (iii)   when Sub-Distributor is aware of the identity of such
 customers or clients; and

               (iv) when  Sub-Distributor  has made available to its clients and
      received from those clients a fully completed Addendum 3 to this Agreement
      which  Addendum must  accompany  each and every  Application  Form that is
      transmitted to the SICAV.

          (c) The  Sub-Distributor  agrees to comply with all laws,  regulations
and  requirements  that apply or, in any material way, relate to its performance
under this  Agreement,  including but not limited to all laws,  regulations  and
requirements of the United States of America  applicable to the  Sub-Distributor
regarding ascertaining,  documenting and keeping records of the identity of each
customer of Sub-Distributor and monitoring and reporting on transactions of each
such customer.

          (d) Owing to money laundering  regulations passed in financial centers
around the world,  Sub-Distributor  further agrees to use due diligence to learn
the  essential  facts  relative to each  customer  (whether a natural  person or
entity) for whom Sub-Distributor accepts or processes orders for the purchase of
the Shares. In particular,  Sub-Distributor  shall not open an account on behalf
of or accept or process orders for the purchase of Shares for any customer until
a designated  supervisory person of Sub-Distributor has been personally informed
as to the  essential  facts  relative  to such  customer  and the  nature of the
account  (including  the  customer's  activities and the purpose of the intended
business  relationship  with  the  customer)  and has  indicated  approval  on a
document  that  is  maintained  as part of  Sub-Distributor's  records.  For the
purpose of detecting suspicious transactions, Sub-Distributor also shall monitor
transactions  by each  customer on whose  behalf  Sub-Distributor  has opened an
account or has accepted or processed  orders for the purchase or  redemption  of
Shares. In the event that the SICAV or the Principal  Distributor is required by
the relevant  authorities in Luxembourg to satisfy itself or such authorities as
to the  identity  of any such  customer  or in the event  that any form of money
laundering  is  suspected  by  the  SICAV,  the  Principal  Distributor  or  the
Sub-Distributor,  Sub-Distributor agrees to make a full disclosure, supported by
any  conclusive   identification  documents,  to  the  SICAV  or  the  Principal
Distributor, as the case may be, and all appropriate authorities as relevant.

          (e)  Sub-Distributor  agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the SICAV,
the Principal Distributor,  their affiliates,  officers,  directors,  employees,
agents  and  authorized  representatives  for any and all  liabilities,  losses,
claims,  damages,  actions and related expenses arising out of or as a result of
Sub-Distributor's  failure to comply with the requirements of, or breach of, the
agreements,   covenants  and  warranties  contained  in  this  Section  8.  Such
indemnification shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

     9. RECORD KEEPING.  Sub-Distributor shall (i) maintain all records required
by all applicable laws and regulations to be kept by Sub-Distributor relating to
transactions in Shares and, upon request by Principal  Distributor or the SICAV,
promptly make these records  available to Principal  Distributor or the SICAV as
Principal  Distributor  or the SICAV may reasonably  request in connection  with
their   operations   and  (ii)  promptly   notify   Principal   Distributor   if
Sub-Distributor  experiences any difficulty in maintaining the records described
in the foregoing clauses in an accurate and complete manner.

     10. APPLICABLE LAWS.  Sub-Distributor  agrees to comply with all applicable
laws and regulations of each  jurisdiction in which it sells Shares and with the
terms  and  conditions  of the  Prospectus,  as  well as all  applicable  rules,
regulations  and any other  applicable  requirements  of the  government and all
authorized  agencies  having  jurisdiction  over the sales of the Shares made by
Sub-Distributor.  Sub-Distributor agrees to indemnify,  hold harmless and defend
the SICAV,  the Principal  Distributor,  their  affiliates,  and their officers,
directors, employees, agents and authorized representatives from and against any
suits,  actions,  legal  proceedings  or claims of any kind brought  against the
SICAV or the  Principal  Distributor  by or on account  of any person  howsoever
arising,  directly or  indirectly,  caused by, or incident to, or growing out of
this  Agreement,  for acts or  omissions  of the  Sub-Distributor  caused by its
willful  misfeasance,  bad faith, or negligence in the performance of its duties
or by reckless  disregard of its obligations under this Agreement or any failure
on  Sub-Distributor's  part to comply with any applicable  laws,  regulations or
other  requirements,  and hold the SICAV and the  Principal  Distributor,  their
affiliates,  and their  officers,  directors,  employees,  agents and authorized
representatives,  harmless  from loss or damage  resulting  from any  failure on
Sub-Distributor's part to comply with any applicable laws, regulations, or other
requirements.  Sub-Distributor  further  agrees that the indemnity  contained in
this Agreement  shall survive any  termination or cancellation of this Agreement
and that any legal costs  incurred by  Sub-Distributor  in  connection  herewith
shall be borne by Sub-Distributor.

          If  it  is  necessary  to  register  or  qualify  the  Shares  in  the
jurisdiction in which Sub-Distributor  intends to offer the Shares, prior to any
such  registration  or  qualification   Sub-Distributor  will  notify  Principal
Distributor of  Sub-Distributor's  intent and of any  limitations  that might be
imposed on the SICAV or the Principal  Distributor;  and Sub-Distributor  agrees
not to proceed with any sales efforts, registration or qualification without the
written consent of the SICAV and of the Principal Distributor.

     11.  TERMINATION  OF  AGREEMENT.  Either  party  shall  have  the  right to
terminate  this  Agreement  without the  payment of any penalty  upon sixty (60)
days' notice in writing to the other.

     12.  CONFLICT  RESOLUTION  AND  JURISDICTION.  In the  event  of a  dispute
concerning any provision of this  Agreement,  Principal  Distributor may require
the dispute to be submitted to binding  arbitration  after giving seven (7) days
prior notice of its intention to do so under the commercial arbitration rules of
the American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon any arbitration award may be
entered  by any  court  of  competent  jurisdiction.  This  Agreement  shall  be
construed in accordance  with the laws of  Luxembourg  and shall be binding upon
the  parties  hereto  when  signed by  Principal  Distributor  and  accepted  by
Sub-Distributor with Sub-Distributor's signature in the space provided below.

     13. GENERAL. (a) This Agreement embodies the entire  understanding  between
the parties  relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof,  whether written
or oral, and supersedes all prior  agreements and  understandings,  both written
and oral,  among the parties with  respect to the subject  matter  hereof.  This
Agreement may be amended only in writing signed by both parties hereto.

          (b) No duties,  interests,  obligations  or rights of  Sub-Distributor
under this  Agreement  may be  assigned or  transferred  without  prior  express
written consent of Principal Distributor.

          (c) Sub-Distributor  agrees at all times to act in good faith and with
the highest  professional  integrity,  including the  maintenance of the highest
possible standards.

          (d) In the event of  termination  of this  Agreement,  Sub-Distributor
shall  have no further  rights  with  regard to any fee  payable  for  procuring
orders,  either  with  reference  to  initial  sales  charges,   commissions  or
shareholder   processing   and  servicing  fees  after  the  effective  date  of
termination.

          (e)  Upon  termination  of this  Agreement,  Sub-Distributor  shall be
obliged to return any and all documentation  relating to the Franklin  Templeton
Group as well as documentation relating to Shares sold to any of its customers.

     14.  ADDRESSES OF THE PARTIES.  All  notices,  requests,  demands and other
communications  hereunder  shall be in writing  and shall be deemed to have been
duly given if delivered  by hand (and duly  receipted)  or mailed,  certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, as follows:

          If as to the Principal Distributor:

          TEMPLETON, GALBRAITH & HANSBERGER LTD.
          Post Office Box N-7759
          Nassau, Bahamas
          Attention:  Ms. Patti Albury


          If as to Sub-Distributor:




          Attention:

or to such other  person or address as any party may furnish or designate to the
other in writing in accordance  hereto.  Notice given by mail shall be deemed to
have been  given  upon the date  shown on the  certified  or  registered  postal
receipt showing delivery to the recipient.


          IN  WITNESS   WHEREOF,   the   parties   hereto   have   caused   this
Sub-Distribution Agreement to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers
and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto duly affixed and attested.


          TEMPLETON, GALBRAITH & HANSBERGER LTD.


          BY:___________________________________




Attest:________________________________       (CORPORATE SEAL)





          BY:___________________________________




Attest:________________________________       (CORPORATE SEAL)





                                   ADDENDUM 1
               TO SUB-DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT DATED ________, 1995
                            WITH ____________________


With  respect to "Class A" Shares of the  following  funds,  the  initial  sales
charge  shall be the  difference  between the  offering  price and the net asset
value which the Principal  Distributor is entitled to retain  provided that such
amounts will not exceed those that are set forth in the then current  prospectus
or prospectuses  approved by the SICAV. The Principal  Distributor will re-allow
to __________________ xx percent (xx%) of the initial sales charge applicable to
sales by __________________ of the SICAV. In addition, with respect to "Class A"
Shares of the  following  funds,  __________________  will receive a shareholder
processing/servicing  fee payable  semi-annually in arrears as set forth in this
Agreement and more fully described below.

                TEMPLETON GLOBAL STRATEGY SICAV -- Pricing & Commissions Grid*

                                "CLASS A" SHARES
                                                           Shareholder
                                                 Initial   Processing/
                     FUND                         Sales     Servicing
                                                 Charge        Fee
Templeton Global Growth Fund*                     XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Deutsche Mark Global Growth Fund*
                                                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Smaller Companies Fund*                 XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Global Infrastructure and
Communications Fund*                              XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Pan-American Fund*                      XXX%         XXX%
Templeton European Fund*                          XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Asian Growth Fund*                      XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Asian Smaller Companies Fund*
                                                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton China Fund*                             XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Korean Fund*                            XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Emerging Markets Fund*                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Global Utilities Fund*                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Global Convertible Fund*                XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Global Balanced Fund*                   XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Global Income Fund**                    XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Deutsche Mark Global Bond Fund**
                                                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton U.S. Government Fund**                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Emerging Markets Fixed Income Fund**
                                                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Haven Fund***                           XXX%         XXX%
Templeton U.S. Dollar Liquid Reserve Fund***
                                                  XXX%         XXX%
Templeton Deutsche Mark Liquid Reserve Fund***
                                                  XXX%         XXX%





ADDENDUM 1 TO SUB-DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
DATED ________, 1995
WITH ____________________
Page Two
- --------------





*  Subject to breakpoints at the following levels:

     US $50,000 to US $100,000                     XX%
     US $100,000 to US $250,000                    XX%
     US $250,000 to US $500,000                    XX%
     US $500,000 to US $1,000,000                  XX%
     greater than US $1,000,000                    XX%


**  Subject to breakpoints at the following levels:

     US $100,000 to US $250,000                    XX%
     US $250,000 to US $500,000                    XX%
     US $500,000 to US $1,000,000                  XX%
     greater than US $1,000,000                    XX%


*** Not subject to breakpoints.





                                   ADDENDUM 2
               TO SUB-DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT DATED _________, 1995
                            WITH ____________________



There is no initial  sales  charge  with  respect to "Class B" Shares;  however,
__________________ will receive 100% of the commission paid on "Class B" Shares.
In addition,  __________________  will receive,  commencing  with the thirteenth
month after the effective  date of this Agreement and payable  semi-annually  in
arrears, a shareholder  processing/servicing fee of XX basis points (XX%) in the
case of equity funds and XX basis points (XX%) in the case of fixed income funds
as more fully described below. No such shareholder  processing and servicing fee
will be payable  with  respect  to the  initial  twelve  (12)  months  after the
effective date of this Agreement.  Sales of shares in individual  funds totaling
one (1) million U.S.  Dollars or more will not be eligible as a "Class B" Shares
transaction but instead will be processed as a "Class A" Shares transaction.


             TEMPLETON GLOBAL STRATEGY SICAV -- Pricing & Commissions Grid

                                "CLASS B" SHARES


                                                           Shareholder
                                                Up         Processing/
                   FUND                        Front        Servicing
                                            Commission         Fee
Templeton Global Growth Fund                   XXX%           XXX%
Templeton Smaller Companies Fund               XXX%           XXX%
Templeton Pan-American Fund                    XXX%           XXX%
Templeton Emerging Markets Fund                XXX%           XXX%
Templeton Global Income Fund                   XXX%           XXX%
Templeton Emerging Markets Fixed Income
Fund                                           XXX%           XXX%











                                   ADDENDUM 3
               TO SUB-DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT DATED _________, 1995
                            WITH ____________________




     1. I/We have received and read the Prospectus dated ____________________ of
Templeton Global Strategy SICAV (the "Company").

     2. I/We declare that I am/we are not a "United  States person" as described
in the  Prospectus  and that I am/we are not  applying for shares of the Company
(the "Shares") as the nominee(s)  for or on behalf of any such  person(s).  I/We
will notify the Company  immediately  if I/we become a United  States  person or
become  aware  that any  person  for whom I/we hold  Shares  has become a United
States person.

     3. I/We  represent  that I/we have not been  solicited  to purchase  Shares
while present in the United States,  its territories or possessions nor have the
funds to be utilized for such  purchase  been  obtained  from any United  States
person.

     4. I/We  represent  that the  Shares  are  being  acquired  for  investment
purposes  and  that  neither  the  Shares  nor  any  interest  therein  will  be
transferred  to a United  States  person or be  transferred  within  the  United
States, its territories and possessions.


The term "United  States  Person" means  generally:  (a) any individual who is a
citizen or resident of the United States for federal income tax purposes;  (b) a
corporation,  partnership or other entity created or organized under the laws of
or existing in the United States; (c) an estate or trust, the income of which is
subject to United States federal income tax regardless of whether such income is
effectively  connected  with a  United  States  trade  or  business;  or (d) any
corporation,  partnership,  trust,  estate or other  entity in which one or more
individuals or entities described in (a), (b) or (c) acting singly or as a group
has or have a controlling  beneficial  interest  whether  directly or indirectly
and, in the case of a corporation or  partnership,  which is formed  principally
for the purpose of  investing  in  securities  not  registered  under the United
States federal securities laws.







                                  EXHIBIT 10.23

                      NON-EXCLUSIVE UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT  made as of the 18th day of September,  1995,  between  TEMPLETON
FUNDS,  INC., a Maryland  corporation  (herein  referred to as the "Company") on
behalf of  Templeton  World Fund and  Templeton  Foreign Fund (each a "Fund" and
collectively,  the "Funds"),  and TEMPLETON FRANKLIN  INVESTMENT SERVICES (ASIA)
LIMITED,  a  corporation  organized  and  existing  under the laws of Hong Kong,
office  address  2701 Shui On Centre,  Hong  Kong,  (herein  referred  to as the
"Selling Company").

     FIRST:  The Selling Company shall be a non-exclusive  underwriter of shares
of capital stock of the Fund (the "Shares") in Hong Kong and other parts of Asia
(the "Territory") with the functions  hereinafter  stated, and agrees to use its
best  efforts to bring  about and  maintain a broad  distribution  of the Shares
among bona fide investors in the Territory  (except United States citizens) (the
"Investors").

     SECOND: The Selling Company shall solicit responsible dealers for orders to
purchase the Shares as agent for their clients,  and may sign selling  contracts
with any such dealer,  the forms of such contracts to be as mutually agreed upon
between the Fund and the Selling  Company.  The  Selling  Company  also may sell
Shares directly to Investors. While this Agreement is in force, the Fund through
its principal underwriter,  Franklin Templeton  Distributors,  Inc., may solicit
sales or sell the Shares to any person in the Territory,  including  Shares sold
by dealers who are member firms of the United  States  National  Association  of
Securities  Dealers,  Inc., ("NASD") and may retain the sales commission on such
sales.

     THIRD:  All of the Shares sold under this  Agreement  shall be sold only at
the Offering  Price in effect at the time of such sale (as described in the then
current  prospectus or  prospectuses  and statements of additional  information,
effective  under the  applicable  laws of a country or  jurisdiction  within the
Territory,  and  approved by the Fund) and the Fund shall  receive not less than
the full  net  asset  value  thereof,  as  defined  in the  Fund's  Articles  of
Incorporation  ("Charter") or By-Laws. The difference between Offering Price and
net asset value shall be retained by the Selling  Company,  it being  understood
that such  amounts  will not exceed those that are set forth in the then current
prospectus or prospectuses  approved by the Fund (the "Sales  Commission").  The
Selling  Company  agrees to  return  the  Sales  Commission  to the Fund when an
Investor revokes his/her purchase pursuant to any applicable  foreign investment
laws.

     FOURTH:  The Fund shall pay all costs and expenses  incident to registering
and qualifying,  and  maintaining the  registration  and  qualification  of, the
Shares for sale under the laws of the countries within the Territory as well as,
insofar as  applicable,  the laws of the United  States  (including  the cost of
preparing,  setting-up,  printing and distributing to the existing  Shareholders
residing in each country  within the  Territory an initial and annual  supply of
the respective  prospectuses  effective under the laws of each such country, and
for  preparing,  setting-up,  printing  and  distributing  an initial and annual
supply of reports in the appropriate  language for existing  Shareholders in the
Territory or in the English language where appropriate).  The Selling Company is
liable  for the cost of  printing  and  delivering  copies of  prospectuses  and
reports  for  selling  purposes  to dealers and  prospective  new  Investors  in
countries within the Territory.  The Selling Company is also liable for the cost
of the  preparation,  excluding  legal fees, and printing of all  post-effective
amendments  and  supplements  to  the  Fund's   prospectuses  and  statement  of
additional information if the post-effective amendment or supplement arises from
the  Selling  Company's   (including  its  parent's)  activities  or  rules  and
regulations under 1940 Act related to the Selling Company's activities and those
expenses  would not otherwise  have been incurred by the Fund. In addition,  the
Selling Company is liable for the cost of printing  additional  copies,  for its
use as sales literature,  of reports or other  communications which the Fund has
prepared for distribution to its existing shareholders.

     FIFTH:  The Selling  Company may re-allow to dealers all or any part of the
discount it is allowed.

     SIXTH:  The  Selling  Company  shall be  entitled  to receive a  contingent
deferred  sales charge or  distribution  fee from the proceeds of  redemption of
Shares  of the Fund on such  terms and in such  amounts  as are set forth in the
then current prospectus of the Fund. In addition, the Selling Company may retain
any  amounts  authorized  for payment to the  Selling  Company  under the Fund's
Distribution Plan.

     SEVENTH: If Shares are tendered to the Fund for redemption or repurchase by
the Fund within seven  business days after the Selling  Company's  acceptance of
the  original  purchase  order  for  such  Shares,   the  Selling  Company  will
immediately  refund to the Fund the full sales  commission (net of allowances to
dealers or brokers)  allowed to the Selling  Company on the original  sale,  and
will promptly, upon receipt thereof, pay to the Fund any refunds from dealers or
brokers of the balance of sales  commissions  reallowed by the Selling  Company.
The Fund shall notify the Selling  Company of such tender for redemption  within
10 days of the day on which notice of such tender for  redemption is received by
the Fund.

     EIGHTH:  The Selling Company will conduct its business in strict accordance
with the applicable  requirements  of the Charter and the By-Laws of the Fund as
from time to time amended,  and in strict  accordance with all applicable  laws,
rules and  regulations,  including the Rules of Fair  Practice of the NASD.  The
Selling Company shall endeavor to see that dealers buying Shares resell the same
only to bona fide  Investors and that the methods and materials  used in selling
Shares are sound and  conservative,  and in accordance  with the Fund's  current
prospectus.

     Advertisements  with  respect to the Fund  prepared by the Selling  Company
shall not contain  any untrue  statements  of  material  fact or omit to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make such statements
not misleading and will conform to the U.S.  Investment  Company Act of 1940, as
amended,  and the regulations  thereunder,  and to the Rules of Fair Practice of
the NASD pertaining to the content of such material.

     No person is authorized to make any  representations  concerning  shares of
the  Fund  except  those  contained  in the  current  prospectus,  statement  of
additional information, and printed information issued by the Fund.

     NINTH:  The Selling  Company shall at all times use reasonable care and act
in good faith in performing its duties hereunder.  The Selling Company shall not
be  liable  or  responsible  for  delays  or  errors   occurring  by  reason  of
circumstances beyond its control, including acts of civil or military authority,
national  emergencies,   fire,  flood  or  other  catastrophes,   acts  of  God,
insurrection, war or riots.

     TENTH:  This Agreement shall be effective from the date hereof,  subject to
registration of the Shares under the laws of the respective countries within the
Territory and other  applicable laws as provided in Article FOURTH above. If the
number of  Shareholders  in any country is not  sufficient in the opinion of the
Fund,  then such  registration  may be  discontinued,  including its obligations
under Article FOURTH above.

     ELEVENTH:  Either  party shall have the right to terminate  this  Agreement
without the payment of any  penalty  upon sixty (60) days'  notice in writing to
the other,  provided,  however,  that such  termination  on the part of the Fund
shall be directed or approved  either by the  affirmative  vote of a majority of
the Board of  Directors  in office at the time or by the  affirmative  vote of a
majority (as defined in Section 2(a)(42) of the U.S.  Investment  Company Act of
1940) of the  outstanding  Shares.  This Agreement shall continue in effect from
the date hereof  until  September  18, 1997,  and from year to year  thereafter,
provided that such continuance is specifically approved at least annually by the
Board of  Directors  or by a vote of a majority  of the  outstanding  Shares (as
defined in the U.S.  Investment  Company Act of 1940) and also, in either event,
approved by a majority of those  Directors  who are not parties to the Agreement
or interested  persons of any such party,  in person at a meeting called for the
purpose of voting on such approval.

     TWELFTH:  The  Selling  Company  agrees  at all  times to  indemnify,  save
harmless  and defend the Fund from and  against  all claims for loss,  damage or
injury and from and against any suits, actions, or legal proceedings of any kind
brought  against  the Fund by or on  account  of any  person  whosoever  arising
directly  or  indirectly  caused  by, or  incident  to, or  growing  out of this
Agreement  for its acts and  omissions  caused by its willful  misfeasance,  bad
faith or gross  negligence  in the  performance  of its  duties  or by  reckless
disregard of its obligations under this Agreement.

     THIRTEENTH:  The  Selling  Company,  upon  request  of the  Fund  (made  at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner),  will provide the Fund with copies
of its books and records  relating to the Fund and/or allow  inspection  of such
books and records by representatives of the Fund.

     The Selling Company shall at all times maintain books and records  relating
to the Fund at its  principal  place of business  and will comply  substantially
with Section 31 of the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended,  and the
regulations pursuant to such Section.

     FOURTEENTH: This Agreement shall automatically and immediately terminate in
the event of its assignment by the Selling  Company.  The term  "assignment"  as
used herein includes any transfer of a controlling  block of the voting stock of
the Selling Company.

     FIFTEENTH:  All  notices,   requests,   demands  and  other  communications
hereunder  shall be in  writing  and shall be deemed to have been duly  given if
delivered by hand (and duly receipted) or mailed,  certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, as follows:

     if to the Fund         Templeton Funds, Inc.
                            700 Central Avenue
                            St. Petersburg, Florida 33701-3628
                            Attention:  Thomas M. Mistele,
                                        Secretary

     if to the Selling      Templeton Franklin Investment
     Company                Services (Asia) Ltd.
                            2701 Shui On Centre
                            Hong Kong
                            Attention:  Murray L. Simpson
                                        Managing Director

or to such other  person or address as any party may furnish or designate to the
other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice given by mail shall be deemed to
have been  given  upon the date  shown on the  certified  or  registered  postal
receipt showing delivery to the recipient.

     SIXTEENTH: The Fund reserves the right at all times to suspend or limit the
public  offering of the Shares of the Fund upon two day's written  notice to the
Selling Company.

     SEVENTEENTH:  This Agreement  shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California,  without  reference to  principles of conflicts of laws and the U.S.
Securities laws,  including the U.S.  Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
from  time to  time,  and the  regulations  thereunder.  Venue  for any  dispute
hereunder shall be San Mateo, California.

     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this  Agreement to be
duly executed by their duly authorized  officers and their respective  corporate
seals to be hereunto duly affixed and attested.


ATTEST:                        TEMPLETON FUNDS, INC.



                             By:
Thomas M. Mistele              John R. Kay
Secretary                      Vice President



ATTEST:                        TEMPLETON FRANKLIN INVESTMENT
                               SERVICES (ASIA) LIMITED



                               By:
                               Murray L. Simpson
                               Managing Director






                                  EXHIBIT 10.24




                         SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AGREEMENT



THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE AS OF THE _____ DAY OF __________, 199__

BETWEEN

FRANKLIN  TEMPLETON  INVESTOR  SERVICES,  INC.,  a California  corporation  with
offices  located at 700  Central  Avenue,  St.  Petersburg,  Florida  33701-8030
(hereinafter called "the Transfer Agent");

AND

TEMPLETON FRANKLIN  INVESTMENT  SERVICES (ASIA) LIMITED,  incorporated under the
laws of Hong Kong with its registered  office at 2701 Shui On Centre,  Hong Kong
(hereinafter called "the Agent").

WHEREAS

(A)   the Transfer Agent  provides  shareholder  services  ("the  Services") for
      Templeton  Growth Fund,  Inc. and  Templeton  Funds,  Inc.,  (on behalf of
      Templeton World Fund and Templeton  Foreign Fund),  which are incorporated
      under the laws of Maryland and registered under the US Investment  Company
      Act of 1940 as open-end, diversified management investment companies ("the
      Funds") and in respect of the shares of the Funds ("the Shares");

(B)  the  Services  are  provided in  accordance  with the terms and  conditions
     contained  in  the  current  Prospectuses  of  the  Funds  as  such  may be
     supplemented or amended; and

(C)   the Agent has agreed to  undertake  part of the  Services on behalf of the
      Transfer Agent with respect to investors located in Asia (hereafter called
      "Asian Shareholders") on the following terms and conditions.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:

1.     Appointment
      The  Transfer  Agent  hereby   appoints  the  Agent  as  a   non-exclusive
      shareholder services agent with respect to Asian Shareholders.

2.     Mandate

     The Agent shall undertake part of the Services, namely

(a)  to deal with requests for the purchase, transfer, exchange or redemption of
     Shares by Asian Shareholders;

(b)   to accept and forward to the Transfer  Agent Share  certificates  tendered
      for   exchange,   replacement,   repurchase   or  transfer  by  the  Asian
      Shareholders;  to accept and forward to the Transfer  Agent such forms and
      documents as may be submitted to it in connection with any such tender;

(c)  to assist in the  processing of  subscriptions  for Shares and to assist in
     dealing with requests for repurchases of Shares;

(d)   to  provide  and  supervise  services  with  regard  to  the  dispatch  of
      statements,   reports,  notices,  announcements  and  other  documents  to
      shareholders of the Funds and to maintain such records with regard thereto
      as may be required from time to time by the Funds;

(e)     to respond to relevant inquiries concerning the Funds; and

(f)  to perform  such  other  services  as may be agreed  upon from time to time
     among the parties.

3.     Limitation of Authority

      No person is authorized to make any  representations  concerning the Funds
      or the Shares except those  contained in the current  Prospectuses  of the
      Funds and in such printed  information as may  subsequently be prepared or
      approved  in writing on behalf of the Funds.  No person is  authorized  to
      distribute  any sales  material  on behalf of the Funds.  The Agent  shall
      indemnify  and hold the Transfer  Agent  harmless from and against any and
      all damages,  claims,  loss, liability or expense to the Transfer Agent or
      the Funds arising out of or related to the part of the Services undertaken
      by the  Agent.  The  Transfer  Agent  shall  indemnify  and hold the Agent
      harmless from and against any and all damages,  claims, loss, liability or
      expense  arising  out of or  related to the  Services  other than the part
      undertaken by the Agent.

4.     Compensation

As  compensation  for the part of the Services  undertaken by the Agent it shall
receive a shareholder services fee as specified in Appendix 1 to this Agreement.

5.     Qualification to Act

      The Agent agrees that it will not act as  shareholder  services  agent for
      any persons to whom the Funds may not lawfully offer Shares.

6.     Record Keeping

      In respect of the Services  undertaken by the Agent, it shall maintain all
      records  required  by law and upon  request  promptly  make these  records
      available to the Transfer Agent or the Funds.

7.     Applicable Laws

      The Agent agrees to comply with all  applicable  United States Federal and
      State laws and rules,  as well as the rules and regulations of any and all
      governments or authorized agencies having jurisdiction over the Agent.

8.     Termination of the Agreement

      Any party shall have the right to  terminate  this  Agreement  without the
      payment  of any  penalty  upon 60 days  notice  in  writing  to the  other
      parties.

9.     Jurisdiction and Venue

      This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of California.  Venue for any
      dispute hereunder shall be San Mateo, California.

10.     Integration

      This  Agreement  embodies  the entire  understanding  between  the parties
      relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior  agreements
      and understandings,  both written and oral, among the parties with respect
      to the subject matter hereof.

11.     Addresses of the Parties

      All notices,  requests, demands and other communication hereunder shall be
      in  writing  and shall be deemed to have been duly given if  delivered  by
      hand (and duly receipted) or mailed,  certified or registered mail, return
      receipt requested, as follows:


            If to the Transfer Agent:

            FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTOR SERVICES, INC.
            700 Central Avenue
            St. Petersburg, Florida  33701-8030

            If to the Agent:

            TEMPLETON FRANKLIN INVESTMENT
            SERVICES (ASIA) LIMITED
            2701 Shui On Centre
            Hong Kong


      or to such other  person or address as any party may furnish or  designate
      to the other in writing in accordance  hereto.  Notice given by mail shall
      be deemed to have  been  given  upon the date  shown on the  certified  or
      registered postal receipt showing delivery to the recipient.

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this  Agreement to be duly
executed by their duly authorized officers on the date first above written.

            FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTOR SERVICES, INC.



            By:
                 Thomas M. Mistele



            TEMPLETON FRANKLIN INVESTMENT SERVICES (ASIA) LIMITED



            By:
                 Murray L. Simpson









                                   APPENDIX 1

                            SHAREHOLDER SERVICES FEE



In respect of the Services, the Transfer Agent shall pay the Agent an annual fee
calculated  US $12.00 per  Shareholder  account.  Such fees shall be paid to the
Agent quarterly in arrears.








                                   Exhibit 12

COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES


                               For the years ended
(Dollars in thousands)                    1995        1994        1993
Income before taxes                      $386,655    $362,521    $274,398
Add fixed charges:
  Interest expense                         29,495      29,765      28,760
  Interest factor on rent                   7,271       5,026       4,555
Total fixed charges                        36,766      34,791      33,315


Earnings before fixed charges
  and taxes on income                    $423,421    $397,312    $307,713

Ratio of earnings to fixed
  charges                                11.5        11.4         9.2







                                   EXHIBIT 21

                        FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
                FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1994
                     LIST OF PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES*
                                                       State or
                                                       Nation
                                                       of Incor-
Name                                                   poration

Continental Property Management Company                California
FCC Receivables Corp.                                  Delaware
Franklin Advisers, Inc.                                California
Franklin Agency, Inc.                                  California
Franklin Bank                                          California
Franklin Capital Corporation                           Utah
Franklin Institutional Services Corporation            California
Franklin Management, Inc.                              California
Franklin Partners, Inc.                                California
Franklin Properties, Inc.                              California
Franklin Real Estate Management, Inc.                  California
Franklin Templeton Trust Company                       California
Franklin Templeton Holding Limited                     Mauritius
Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.                  New York
Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.             California
Franklin/Templeton Travel, Inc.                        California
FS Capital Group                                       California
FS Properties Inc.                                     California
ILA Financial Services, Inc.                           Arizona
Property Resources, Inc.                               California
T.G.H. Holdings Ltd.                                   Bahamas
Templeton Asset Management India Pvt. Ltd.             India
Templeton Funds Annuity Company                        Florida
Templeton Funds Trust Company                          Florida
Templeton Global Investors Limited                     England
Templeton Global Investors, Inc.                       Delaware
Templeton Global Strategic Services
  (Deutschland) GmbH                                   Germany
Templeton Global Strategic Services S.A.               Luxembourg
Templeton Heritage Limited                             Canada
Templeton Holdings Limited                             England
Templeton International, Inc.                          Delaware
Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.                     Florida
Templeton Investment Management (Australia) Limited
                                                       Australia
Templeton Asset Management Ltd.                        Singapore
Templeton Investment Management Limited                England
Templeton Italia, Srl.                                 Italy
Templeton Management (Lux) S.A.                        Luxembourg
Templeton Management Limited                           Canada
Templeton (Poland) S.A.                                Poland
Templeton S.A.                                         France
Templeton Unit Trust Managers Limited                  England
Templeton Worldwide, Inc.                              Delaware
Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd.                 Bahamas
Templeton/Franklin Investment Services
(Asia) Limited                                         Hong Kong
Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc.           Delaware

*All  subsidiaries  currently do business only under their corporate name except
for Templeton Quantitative Advisors, Inc., which also operates under the assumed
name, "The DAIS Group";  Templeton Investment Counsel,  Inc. which also operates
under  the  name  "Templeton  Global  Bond  Managers";   and  Templeton/Franklin
Investment Services, Inc. which also operates under the assumed name, "Templeton
Portfolio  Advisory".  All Templeton  subsidiaries also on occasion use the name
Templeton Worldwide.







                                   EXHIBIT 23




                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



We consent to the  incorporation by reference in the Registration  Statements of
Franklin Resources, Inc. on Form S-3 for the issuance of medium term notes, Form
S-3 filed September 30, 1994 for the registration of 1,411,736 shares,  Form S-8
for the 1988 Restricted  Stock Plan, Form S-8 for the Franklin  Resources,  Inc.
Universal Stock Plan, Form S-8 for Franklin Resources, Inc. United Kingdom Stock
Option Plan #1 and Form S-8 for the Canada Stock Option Plan of our report dated
October 27, 1995,  on our audits of the  consolidated  financial  statements  of
Franklin  Resources,  Inc. as of  September  30, 1995 and 1994 and for the years
ended  September  30,  1995,  1994,  and 1993,  which report is included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.




                                   /s/ COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.




San Francisco, California
December 28, 1995

