
10-K


                                 FORM 10-K
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)
         [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994

                                    OR

       [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from                 to
Commission file number 1-9318
                         FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                     
Delaware                                                   13-2670991
(State of other jurisdiction of                         (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

777 Mariners Island Blvd. San Mateo, CA                    94404
(Address of principal and executive offices)               (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code        (415) 312-3000
Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:
          Title of each class               Name of each exchange
                                             on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.10 per share      New York Stock Exchange

Common Stock, par value $.10 per share      Pacific Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                  Common Stock, par value $.10 per share

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant  was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject  to
the filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.  YES  X    NO  ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405  of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to  the  best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K  or  any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

Aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates  of  the
Registrant, based upon a closing price of $38 on November 28, 1994  on  the
New  York  Stock  Exchange was $1,639,730,552.  Number  of  shares  of  the
registrant's common stock outstanding at November 28, 1994: 81,583,208


Documents Incorporated by Reference:
     Certain  portions of the registrant's proxy statement for  its  Annual
Meeting  of Stockholders to be held January 24, 1995, which will  be  filed
with  the  Commission on or subsequent to the date hereof, are incorporated
by reference into Part III of this report.
Item 1. Business

(a)        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Franklin Resources, Inc. ("FRI") and its predecessors have been engaged  in
the  financial services business since 1947.  FRI was organized in Delaware
in   November 1969.  The term "Company" as used herein, unless the  context
otherwise   requires,   refers  to  Franklin  Resources,   Inc.   and   its
subsidiaries.  The Company's principal executive and administrative offices
are  at 777 Mariners Island Boulevard, San Mateo, California 94404.  As  of
September 30, 1994, on a worldwide basis the Company employed approximately
4,100   employees,   consisting   of   officers,   investment   management,
distribution, administrative, sales and clerical support staff. The Company
also  employs  additional  temporary help  as  necessary  to  meet  unusual
requirements.   Management believes that its relations with  its  employees
are excellent.

On  October  30, 1992, the Company and certain of its direct  and  indirect
subsidiaries   consummated   the   acquisition   (the   "Acquisition")   of
substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Templeton,  Galbraith  &
Hansberger  Ltd.,  a  corporation organized under the laws  of  the  Cayman
Islands   and  based  in  Nassau,  Bahamas  ("Old  TGH"),  which   provided
diversified investment management and related services on a worldwide basis
directly and through subsidiaries to various domestic open-end and  closed-
end  investment  companies  as  well  as  to  a  variety  of  international
investment  portfolios  and  to  domestic  and  international  private  and
institutional  accounts.  At  the time of  the  Acquisition,  assets  under
management  by Old TGH and related companies exceeded $20 billion.   As  of
the  close  of  the fiscal year 1994, such assets exceeded  $42.4  billion.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references herein to "Templeton" are
deemed  to  refer  to the business operations acquired by  the  Company  in
connection with the Acquisition. Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company
has operated the Franklin and Templeton businesses on a unified basis.

The  Company  and its subsidiaries paid to Old TGH an aggregate  of  $731.6
million  in  addition to the assumption of certain liabilities, which  with
certain other adjustments, had the effect of increasing the purchase  price
for  financial  reporting  purposes to  approximately  $786  million.   The
Acquisition  was  funded  by  a $360 million  term  loan  facility  with  a
syndicate  of  financial  institutions; the  issuance  in  August  1992  in
anticipation  of  such  Acquisition of $150 million of  6.25%  subordinated
debentures of Templeton Worldwide, Inc., a newly formed subsidiary  holding
company  formed  by the Company; $189 million in cash; and an  $87  million
issuance  of the Company's $.10 par value Common Stock to certain  Old  TGH
major stockholders and to Templeton employees. Ownership of certain of such
Company shares by Templeton employees vests over time, subject to continued
employment by such employees with the Company or a subsidiary thereof.

In November 1993, the Company consummated an agreement to manage and advise
the  approximate $150 million Huntington Funds of Pasadena, California, now
called  the  Franklin/Templeton  Global Trust.   This  open-end  investment
company  of several currency portfolio series, includes the Global Currency
Fund,  The  Hard  Currency Fund and The High Income  Currency  Fund,  which
invests  in  high  quality foreign equivalent money market  instruments  in
various global currencies as well as the German Government Bond Fund, which
invests in German government bonds and equivalents.

FRI  is  principally  a parent company primarily engaged,  through  various
subsidiaries,  in providing investment management, marketing, distribution,
transfer  agency  and  administrative services to the  open-end  investment
companies in the Franklin Group of Funds and the Templeton Family of  Funds
and  to domestic and international managed and institutional accounts.  The
Company  also  provides  investment management and related  services  to  a
number  of  closed-end  investment companies whose  shares  are  traded  on
various   major  stock  exchanges.   In  addition,  the  Company   provides
investment  management,  marketing  and distribution  services  to  certain
sponsored  investment companies organized in the Grand Duchy of  Luxembourg
(hereinafter referred to as "SICAV Funds"), which are distributed in market-
places  outside  of  North  America and to  certain  investment  funds  and
portfolios in Canada (hereinafter referred to as "Canadian Funds") as  well
as  to  certain  other international portfolios in the United  Kingdom  and
elsewhere.   The Franklin Group of Funds consists of thirty-two (32)  open-
end  investment  companies  (mutual funds) with multiple  portfolios.   The
Templeton  Family  of  Funds includes twenty-one (21)  open-end  investment
companies  (mutual  funds)  with multiple portfolios.   Certain  investment
companies in the Franklin Group of Funds and the Templeton Family of  Funds
are  registered as such under the Investment Company Act of 1940  (the  "40
Act").

The  Franklin  Group  of  Funds  and the  Templeton  Family  of  Funds  are
hereinafter  referred to individually as a "Franklin Fund" or a  "Templeton
Fund" and collectively as the "Franklin Funds" or the "Templeton Funds"  or
when applicable to both fund groups as the "Franklin Templeton Funds",  the
"Funds,"   or  a  "Fund".  The  domestic  and  international  managed   and
institutional  accounts are collectively referred to as the  "Institutional
Assets".  The Franklin Templeton Funds along with the Institutional  Assets
are collectively referred to as the "Franklin Templeton Group".

As  of  September 30, 1994, total assets under management in  the  Franklin
Templeton Group were $118.2 billion, the make-up of which was approximately
as  follows:  for  the  Franklin Group of Funds,  $74.3  billion;  for  the
Templeton  Family  of  Funds, $30.6 billion; for the Institutional  Assets,
$13.3  billion. This makes the Franklin Templeton Group one of the  largest
investment management complexes in the United States.

The Company, through certain subsidiaries, also provides advisory services,
variable annuity products, and sponsors and manages public and private real
estate  programs.   Other  subsidiaries offer  consumer  banking  services,
insured  deposits, auto loans, and credit cards.  The Company also provides
custodial,  trustee and fiduciary services to IRA and Keogh  plans  and  to
qualified retirement plans and private trusts.  On a consolidated worldwide
basis,  the  Company  provides  domestic and international  individual  and
institutional  investors  with a broad range  of  investment  products  and
services designed to meet varying investment objectives, which affords  its
clients  the  opportunity  to  allocate their  investment  resources  among
various alternative investment products as changing worldwide economic  and
market conditions warrant.

   Subsidiaries-Investment  Management, Administration, Distribution and
                             Related Services

The   Company's   principal  line  of  business  is  providing   investment
management,  administration,  distribution  and  related  services  to  the
Franklin Templeton Funds and to the Institutional Assets.  This business is
primarily conducted through the wholly owned direct and indirect subsidiary
companies described below. Revenues are generated primarily by subsidiaries
that provide advisory and management services.

Franklin Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Advisers, Inc. ("Advisers") is a California corporation formed  in
1985  and is based in San Mateo, California.  Advisers is registered as  an
investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the "SEC")
under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers Act") and is  also
registered  as  an investment advisor in the States of California  and  New
Jersey.  Advisers  provides investment advisory, portfolio  management  and
administrative services under management agreements with most of the  Funds
in  the  Franklin  Group of Funds. Advisers manages more than  60%  of  the
Company's  total  assets under management and generates more  than  40%  of
total Company revenues.

Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd.

Templeton,   Galbraith  &  Hansberger  Ltd.  ("New  TGH")  is  a   Bahamian
corporation  located  in  Nassau, Bahamas formed  in  connection  with  the
Acquisition and is the successor company to Old TGH.  New TGH is registered
as  an  investment  advisor with the SEC under the Advisers  Act.  New  TGH
provides  investment  advisory,  portfolio  management  and  administrative
services  under various management agreements with certain of the Templeton
Funds and Institutional Assets. New TGH is the principal investment advisor
to  the  Templeton Funds.  Revenues are derived primarily  from  investment
management  fees  calculated  on  a sliding  scale  fund-by-fund  basis  in
relation to Templeton Fund assets under management.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc. ("TICI") is a Florida corporation formed
in  October, 1979, based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and was acquired by the
Company   in  connection  with  the  Acquisition.  TICI  is  the  principal
investment  advisor to the Institutional Assets. In addition,  it  provides
investment  advisory  portfolio  management  services  to  certain  of  the
Templeton Funds and subadvisory services to certain of the Franklin Funds.

Templeton Global Investors, Inc.

Templeton Global Investors, Inc. ("TGII") is a Delaware corporation  formed
in  October 1987, based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and was acquired by  the
Company   in  connection  with  the  Acquisition.  TGII  provides  business
management   services,  including  fund  accounting,  securities   pricing,
trading,  compliance  and  other  related administrative  activities  under
various  management agreements to certain of the Franklin Templeton  Funds.
Revenues are derived from business management fees calculated on a  sliding
scale, fund-by-fund basis in relation to assets under management.

Templeton Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Templeton Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited ("Templeton Hong Kong")
is a corporation organized under the laws of and is based in Hong Kong.  It
was  formed  as a successor company to an Old TGH subsidiary in  connection
with  the  Acquisition. Templeton Hong Kong is registered  as  the  foreign
equivalent  of  an investment advisor in Hong Kong and is  also  registered
with  the SEC under the Advisers Act.  Revenues are derived from investment
management  fees calculated on a fund-by-fund basis in relation  to  assets
under management.  Templeton Hong Kong is principally an investment advisor
to emerging market equity portfolios.

Templeton Investment Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Templeton   Investment   Management  (Singapore)  Pte.   Ltd.   ("Templeton
Singapore")  is  a corporation organized under the laws  of  and  based  in
Singapore  and  was  formed  in connection with  the  Acquisition.   It  is
registered as the foreign equivalent of an investment advisor in  Singapore
with  the  Monetary Authority of Singapore and is also registered with  the
SEC  under  the  Advisers  Act.   Templeton Singapore  provides  investment
advisory  and  related services to certain Templeton Funds and  portfolios.
Revenues are derived from investment management fees calculated on a  fund-
by-fund  basis in relation to assets under management.  Templeton Singapore
is principally an investment advisor to emerging market equity portfolios.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited

Templeton/Franklin  Investment Services (Asia)  Limited  is  a  corporation
organized under the laws of, and is based in, Hong Kong.  It was formed  in
late  1993  to distribute and service the Company's financial  products  in
Hong Kong and Southeast Asia.

Templeton Management Limited

Templeton  Management Limited is a Canadian corporation formed  in  October
1982,  which, with its subsidiaries, was purchased in the Acquisition,  and
is  registered in Canada as the foreign equivalent of an investment advisor
and  a  mutual  fund  dealer  with the Ontario Securities  Commission.   It
provides  investment  advisory,  portfolio  management,  distribution   and
administrative  services  under  various  management  agreements  with  the
Canadian Funds and with private and institutional accounts.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  ("Distributors")  is  a  New  York
corporation   formed  in  1947  whose  name  was  changed   from   Franklin
Distributors,  Inc. in connection with the post-Acquisition unification  of
the Templeton and Franklin organizations.  It is registered with the SEC as
a  broker/dealer  and  as an investment advisor and  is  a  member  of  the
National  Association  of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the  "NASD").   As  the
underwriter  of  the  shares of most of the Franklin Templeton  Funds,   it
earns underwriting commissions on the distribution of shares of the Funds.

Templeton Quantitative Advisors, Inc.

Templeton  Quantitative  Advisors, Inc. ("TQA") is a  Delaware  corporation
formed in July 1990 and was acquired in the Acquisition.  TQA is registered
with  the SEC as an investment advisor to institutional accounts, including
limited  partnerships.  TQA  also offers sophisticated  financial  research
services to third parties through its DAIS division.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc.

Templeton/Franklin  Investment  Services,  Inc.  ("TFIS")  is   a  Delaware
corporation  formed  in October 1987 and was acquired in  the  Acquisition.
TFIS  is registered with the SEC as an investment advisor and broker/dealer
and  is a member of the NASD.  TFIS provides advisory services to wrap  fee
and comprehensive fee accounts.

Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  ("FTIS")  is  a   California
corporation   formed  in  1981  whose  name  was  changed   from   Franklin
Administrative  Services,  Inc. in connection  with  the  post  Acquisition
unification  of  operations  of the Templeton and  Franklin  organizations.
FTIS   provides  shareholder record keeping services and acts  as  transfer
agent and dividend-paying agent for the Franklin Templeton funds.  FTIS  is
registered  with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities  Exchange
Act  of  1934 (the "Exchange Act").  FTIS is compensated under an agreement
with  each  Franklin and Templeton open-end mutual fund on the basis  of  a
fixed  annual fee per account, which varies with the Fund and the  type  of
services being provided.

Other  Templeton Investment Advisory and Related Subsidiaries were acquired
or  formed in connection with the Acquisition and are organized and located
in   Florida,  California,  England,  Scotland,  Luxembourg,  Germany   and
Australia  and provide investment advisory and related services to  various
domestic and foreign portfolios and private and institutional accounts.

Franklin Templeton Trust Company

Franklin  Templeton  Trust  Company,  a California  corporation  formed  in
October  1983,  ("FTTC")   is a trust company licensed  by  the  California
Superintendent of Banks.  FTTC serves primarily as custodian for Individual
Retirement  Accounts  and  Keogh Plans whose assets  are  invested  in  the
Franklin Templeton Funds, and as trustee or fiduciary of private trusts and
retirement plans.

Templeton Funds Trust Company

Templeton  Funds Trust Company,  a Florida corporation formed in  December,
1985,  ("TFTC") is a trust company licensed by the Florida  Office  of  the
Comptroller.  TFTC provides services to Individual Retirement Accounts  and
Keogh Plans whose assets are invested in the Templeton Family of Funds, and
serves as trustee of commingled trusts for qualified retirement plans.

Franklin Management, Inc.

Franklin  Management, Inc., a California corporation organized in  February
1978 ("FMI"), is a registered investment advisor for private accounts.  FMI
also  provides  advisory  services to third party  broker/dealer  wrap  fee
programs.

Franklin Institutional Services Corporation

Franklin  Institutional  Services Corporation  ("FISCO")  is  a  California
corporation  organized  in August 1991. FISCO is  a  registered  investment
advisor  and  provides services to bank trust departments,  municipalities,
corporate and public pension plans and pension consultants.

Franklin Agency, Inc.

Franklin  Agency, Inc. ("Agency") is a California corporation organized  in
December  1971.  Agency provides insurance agency services for the Franklin
Valuemark annuity products.

Templeton Funds Annuity Company

Templeton Funds Annuity Company ("TFAC") is a Florida corporation formed in
January 1984 and purchased in the Acquisition which offers variable annuity
products.  TFAC  is  principally regulated by  the  Florida  Department  of
Insurance and Treasurer.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in July  1992
as  a holding company for all of the Templeton companies acquired or formed
in connection with the Acquisition.

                   Subsidiaries-Other Financial Services

The  Company  is  also  engaged in three other lines  of  business  in  the
financial services marketplace conducted through the subsidiaries described
below:  consumer lending services, the sponsorship and management of public
and  private  real  estate programs and the marketing and  distribution  of
primarily investment related insurance products.


Consumer Lending Services

Franklin Bank (the "Bank"), formerly Pacific Union Bank & Trust Company, an
in-excess-of-90% owned subsidiary of the Company, is a non-Federal  Reserve
member  California State chartered bank.  The Bank was formed in  1974  and
was  acquired by the Company in December 1985. The Bank, with total  assets
of  $208.9  million  as  of September 30, 1994, provides  consumer  banking
products  and  services such as credit cards, auto loans, deposit  accounts
and  consumer  loans.   The Bank does not exercise its  commercial  lending
powers in order to maintain its status as a "non-bank bank" pursuant to the
provisions  of the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA")  which
permits  the  Company, a "non banking company" prior  to  CEBA,  to  remain
exempt  from  the  Bank  Holding  Company Act  under  the  "grandfathering"
provisions  of  CEBA.     As  a non-bank bank, it  is  subject  to  various
regulatory  limitations,  including limits on the  increase  in  its  asset
growth to 7% on an annual basis as well as a prohibition on engaging in any
activity in which it was not engaged in March of 1987.

Franklin Capital Corporation

Franklin  Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a  Utah  corporation  formed  in
November  1993  to  expand  the  Company's auto  lending  activities.   FCC
conducts its business primarily in the Western region of the United  States
and  originates  its loans through a network of approximately  two  hundred
(200)  auto  dealerships representing a wide variety of makes  and  models.
FCC  offers  several  different  loan programs  to  finance  new  and  used
vehicles.   Since  its  formation  in November  1993,  FCC  has  originated
approximately  $200  million in consumer auto  loans.   FCC  also  acquires
credit card receivables from the Bank.

Real Estate Subsidiaries

The  Company's real estate related line of business is conducted  primarily
through  two  (2)  principal subsidiary corporations. Franklin  Properties,
Inc.  ("FPI") is a real estate investment and management company  organized
in  California  in April 1988, which sponsors and manages  three  (3)  real
estate  investment trusts, which are traded publicly on the American  Stock
Exchange.   Property  Resources, Inc. ("PRI"),   a  California  corporation
organized in April 1967 and acquired by the Company in December 1985, is  a
real estate syndication company, serving as  general partner or advisor for
real estate investment programs.

Insurance Services

ILA  Financial Services, Inc. ("ILA") is an Arizona corporation that is 80%
owned  by the Company.  It was formed in June 1969 as an insurance  holding
company.  Its  principal  subsidiary  is  Arizona  Life  Insurance  Company
("Arizona  Life") based in Phoenix, Arizona.  After the close of  the  1994
fiscal  year,  substantially all of the operating assets of  Arizona  Life,
consisting  of term life policies, were sold and Arizona Life's liabilities
thereunder were assumed by the purchaser of such assets.  ILA is  presently
pursuing  the  sale of Arizona Life's insurance charter and licenses.   ILA
specializes  in marketing annuity products.  ILA is licensed to  sell  life
and  disability insurance in Arizona.  Arizona Life is an Arizona domestic,
Legal  Reserve Insurance Company licensed to conduct business in seven  (7)
states, including Arizona.


                           Investment Management

The   Franklin  Templeton  Group  accommodates  a  variety  of   investment
objectives, including, capital appreciation, growth and income, income, tax-
free  income  and  stability  of principal.  In  seeking  to  achieve  such
objectives,  each  portfolio emphasizes  different  investment  securities.
Portfolios  seeking  income focus on taxable and  tax-exempt  money  market
instruments,  tax-exempt municipal bonds, fixed income debt  securities  of
corporations  and  of  the United States government and  its  agencies  and
instrumentalities  such  as  the Government National  Mortgage  Association
("GNMA"  or  "Ginnie  Mae"),   the  Federal National  Mortgage  Association
("Fannie  Mae"),  and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation  ("Freddie
Mac").   Portfolios  that  seek capital appreciation  invest  primarily  in
equity  securities in a wide variety of international and domestic markets,
some  seek  broad national market exposure, while others focus on  narrower
sectors  such as precious metals, health care, emerging technology, mid-cap
companies,  real  estate securities and utilities.  Still others  focus  on
investments  in  particular  emerging  market  countries  and  regions.   A
majority   of   the  assets  managed  are  income-oriented.  Domestic   and
international assets such as common stocks represent approximately  50%  of
total assets managed.

The  Institutional Assets include many of the world's largest corporations,
endowments,  charitable foundations, pension funds and other  institutions.
Investment management services for such portfolios focus on specific client
objectives  utilizing  the  various investment techniques  offered  by  the
Franklin Templeton Group.

During  the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994, except for the  Company's
money  market  funds,  and  funds specifically designed  for  institutional
investors,  whose shares are sold without a sales charge  at  all  purchase
levels,  shares of the open end funds in the Franklin Templeton Funds  were
generally sold at their respective net asset value per share plus  a  sales
charge  which  varies  depending  on the individual  fund  and  the  amount
purchased.   In accordance with certain terms and conditions  described  in
the prospectuses for such Funds, certain investors are eligible to purchase
shares  at net asset value or at reduced rates, and investors may generally
exchange  their shares of a fund at net asset value for shares  of  another
fund  in  the Franklin Templeton Group when they believe such an investment
decision is appropriate.

As  of September 30, 1994, the net asset holdings of the four largest funds
in  the Franklin Templeton Group were Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc. ($19.7
billion),  Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. ($13.1  billion),
Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free Income Fund ($6.8 billion), and  the  Templeton
Growth Fund ($5.6 billion). At September 30, 1994, these four mutual  funds
represented,  in the aggregate, 38% of all assets under management  in  the
Franklin Templeton Group.

The  Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc. ("Custodian") consists of five separate
series,  each  representing a separate portfolio with  its  own  investment
objectives  and  policies.  The largest of these  is  the  U.S.  Government
Securities Series which is invested almost exclusively in GNMA obligations.
As  of  September 30, 1994, the aggregate net assets of the U.S. Government
Securities Series exceeded $11.7 billion.

The Company believes that among the factors contributing to investor demand
for  shares of the Franklin U.S. Government Securities Series is its  yield
and  the government's guarantee of timely payment of principal and interest
on the GNMA certificates in the portfolio of such fund.

The Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. and the Franklin Federal
Tax-Free  Income Fund emphasize investments in a diversified  portfolio  of
municipal  securities, the interest on which is exempt from federal  income
tax.  The  Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. has  the  further
investment  objective  of paying dividends to its  shareholders  which  are
exempt from California personal income taxes.  The Franklin California Tax-
Free  Income Fund, Inc. is believed to be the largest municipal bond mutual
fund in the nation.

The Templeton Growth Fund seeks long-term capital growth through a flexible
policy of investing in stocks and debt obligations of companies and
governments of any nation.
                                     
                                     
                         General Fund Description
                                     
Set  forth in the tables below is a brief description of the Funds  and  of
the  principal  investments  and investment strategies  of  such  Funds  or
portfolios  comprising most of the principal Funds  or  portfolios  in  the
Franklin Templeton Group separated into 16 different general categories  as
follows:

        (i)   Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

        (ii)  Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

        (iii) Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

        (iv)  Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

        (v)   Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

        (vi)  Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments (Valuemark
              variable annuity)

        (vii) Franklin Closed-End Funds

        (viii)Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

        (ix)  Franklin Templeton International Currency Funds

        (x)   Templeton  Funds Seeking Capital Growth from Global
              Portfolios

        (xi)  Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from Domestic
              Portfolios

        (xii) Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income from Global
              Portfolios

        (xiii)Templeton SICAV Funds

        (xiv) Templeton Canadian Funds

        (xv)  Templeton Closed-End Funds

        (xvi) Representative Templeton International Portfolios



Recent Mutual Fund Introductions

The  mutual  funds  referenced above include two new municipal  bond  funds
introduced  during  the year ended September 30, 1994:   Franklin  Arkansas
Municipal Bond Fund and Franklin Tennessee Municipal Bond Fund.  During the
year,  Templeton successfully introduced four closed-end funds in the U.S.,
Japan  and Canada.  The Templeton Dragon Fund, Inc. raised a net amount  of
$759,485,844 in the U.S. and Japan.  The Vietnam Opportunities  Fund,  Inc.
and  Templeton Emerging Markets Appreciation Fund, Inc. raised net  amounts
of  $112,810,543 and $59,172,907, respectively, in the U.S.  The  Templeton
Emerging  Markets Appreciation Fund raised a net amount of  $63,750,000  in
Canada.   In  addition,  Templeton also introduced the  following  open-end
funds:    Franklin/Templeton  Japan  Fund;  Templeton  Americas  Government
Securities Fund; Templeton Global Infrastructure Fund; and Templeton Global
Rising  Dividends  Fund.   In addition, Franklin  introduced  the  Franklin
Strategic Income Fund, Franklin Real Estate Securities Fund, Franklin  Cash
Reserves Fund, Franklin U. S. Government Agency Money Market Fund, AEA Cash
Management   Fund,   Franklin/Templeton  German   Government   Bond   Fund,
Franklin/Templeton Global Currency Fund, Franklin/Templeton  Hard  Currency
Fund and Franklin/Templeton High Income Currency Fund.


(b)        FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on the Company's operations in various geographic areas of  the
world  and  a  breakout  of business segment information  is  contained  in
Footnote  5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in  Item  8.
herein.

(c)        NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

             Investment Management and Administrative Services

The  Company,  through its various subsidiaries described  above,  provides
investment   advisory,   portfolio   management,   transfer    agent    and
administrative services to the Franklin Templeton Group.  Such services are
provided  pursuant to agreements in effect with each of the U.S. registered
Franklin Templeton Funds. Comparable agreements are in effect with  foreign
registered Funds and with managed accounts.  The management agreements  for
the  U.S.  registered  Franklin  Templeton Funds  continue  in  effect  for
successive  annual  periods,  providing such  continuance  is  specifically
approved  at least annually by a majority vote cast in person at a  meeting
of  such Funds' Boards of Trustees or Directors called for that purpose, or
by  a  vote  of  the  holders of a majority vote of the Funds'  outstanding
voting  securities,  and  in either event, by a  majority  of  such  Funds'
trustees  or directors who are not parties to such agreement or  interested
persons  of  the  Funds or the Company within the meaning of  the  40  Act.
Trustees  and  directors of Funds' boards are hereinafter  referred  to  as
"directors".  Foreign registered Funds have various termination rights  and
provisions.

Each   such  agreement  automatically  terminates  in  the  event  of   its
"assignment" (as defined in the 40 Act) and either party may terminate  the
agreement without penalty after written notice ranging from 30 to 60  days.
"Assignment"  is defined in the 40 Act as including any direct or  indirect
transfer of a controlling block of voting stock.  Control is defined as the
power  to  exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies
of a company.

If there were to be a termination of a significant number of the management
agreements   between  the  Franklin  Templeton  Funds  and  the   Company's
subsidiaries,  such termination would have a material adverse  impact  upon
the  Company.  To date, no management agreements of the Company or  any  of
its  subsidiaries  with  any  of the Franklin  Templeton  Funds  have  been
involuntarily terminated.

As  of  September 30, 1994, substantially all of the stock of  the  various
directly  and indirectly owned subsidiary companies was owned  directly  by
the  Company or subsidiaries thereof, except for nominal numbers of  shares
with  respect to certain foreign entities required to be owned by nationals
of  such countries in accordance with foreign law and certain other limited
minority ownership of ILA and Franklin Bank.  Charles B. Johnson, Rupert H.
Johnson, Jr. and R. Martin Wiskemann beneficially own  approximately 19.8%,
15.7% and 9.8%, respectively, of the outstanding voting common stock of the
Company.   Charles B. Johnson and his brother Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.  serve
on the Board of Directors of the Company as well as on most of the Franklin
Funds' boards and some of the Templeton Funds' boards.

Under  the  terms of the management agreements with the Franklin  Templeton
Funds, the companies described above generally supervise and implement such
Funds'  investment activities and provide the administrative  services  and
facilities  which  are necessary to the operation of such Funds'  business.
Such  companies  also  conduct  research and  provide  investment  advisory
services and, subject to and in accordance with any directions such  Funds'
boards  may issue from time to time, such companies decide which securities
such  Funds will purchase, hold or sell.  In addition, such companies  take
all steps necessary to implement such decisions, including the selection of
brokers  and dealers to execute transactions for such Funds, in  accordance
with detailed criteria set forth in the management agreement for such Funds
and applicable law and practice.

Generally,  the Company or a subsidiary provides and pays the  salaries  of
personnel  who serve as officers of the Franklin Templeton Funds, including
the  President and such other administrative personnel as are necessary  to
conduct such Funds' day-to-day business operations, including maintaining a
Fund's   portfolio  records,  answering  shareholder  inquiries,  providing
information, creating and publishing literature, compliance with securities
regulations, accounting systems and controls, preparation of annual reports
and other administrative activities.

The Funds generally pay their own expenses such as legal and auditing fees,
reporting   and  board  and  shareholder  meeting  costs,  SEC  and   state
registration  and  similar expenses.  Generally, the  Funds  pay   advisory
companies  a  fee payable monthly based upon a Fund's net  assets.   Annual
rates  under the various investment management agreements range from  0.25%
to  a  maximum  of  1.75% and are generally reduced as average  net  assets
exceed various threshold levels.

The investment management agreements permit advisory companies to act as an
advisor to more than one Fund so long as such companies' ability to  render
services to such Funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and  sales
appropriate  for  all  such  Funds are made on  a  proportionate  or  other
equitable basis.  Management of the Company and the directors of the  Funds
regularly  review the Fund fee structures in the light of Fund performance,
the  level  and range of services provided, industry conditions  and  other
relevant  factors.   Advisory  fees  are generally  waived  or  voluntarily
reduced  when  a  new  Fund  is first established  and  then  increased  to
contractual levels with the growth in net assets.

The  investment  advisory  services provided  by  such  advisory  companies
include   fundamental   investment   research   and   valuation   analyses,
encompassing original country, industry and company research, and utilizing
such   sources  as  the  inspection  of  corporate  activities,  management
interviews,   company   prepared  information,   and   publicly   available
information,  as well as analyses of suppliers, customers and  competitors.
In  addition,  research services provided by brokerage firms  are  used  to
support  other research.  In this regard, some brokerage business from  the
Funds   is  allocated  in  recognition  of  value-added  research  services
received.

Fixed income research includes economic analysis, credit analysis and value
analysis.   The economic analysis function monitors and evaluates  numerous
factors  that  influence the supply and demand for credit  on  a  worldwide
basis.  Credit analysts research the credit worthiness of debt issuers  and
their  individual  short-term  and long-term  debt  issues.   Yield  spread
differential  analysis reviews the relative value of  market  sectors  that
represent buying and selling opportunities.

Additional shareholder administrative services are provided by FTIS,  which
receives  administrative  fees  from the Funds  for  providing  shareholder
record  keeping  services  and for acting as transfer  and  dividend-paying
agent  for  the Funds.  Such compensation is based upon an annual  fee  per
shareholder account, ranging between $6 and $22.37, a pro-rated portion  of
which is paid monthly.

Distribution and Marketing

Distributors acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of
the Franklin Templeton Funds.  Pursuant to underwriting agreements with the
Funds,  Distributors  generally pays the expenses of distribution  of  Fund
shares.   Although  the  Company  does significant  advertising  and  sales
promotions through media sources, Fund shares are sold primarily through  a
large  network  of  independent participating securities  dealers.   As  of
September  30,  1994,  approximately 3,500  local,  regional  and  national
securities  brokerage firms offered shares of the Franklin Templeton  Funds
for  sale  to  the  investing  public. The  Company  has  approximately  42
"wholesalers" who interface with the broker/dealer community.  Fund  shares
are  offered  to  individuals, qualified groups, trustees,  IRA  and  Keogh
plans, employee benefit plans, trust companies, bank trust departments  and
institutional investors.

Sales  of  Fund shares are generally subject to sales charges  which  range
from  zero  to 9% depending upon the amount invested, the type of  investor
and   the  particular  Fund  product.   The  Company's  money  market   and
institutional  funds are sold to investors without a sales  charge.  As  of
September  30,  1994,  there  were approximately  4.3  million  shareholder
accounts in the Franklin Templeton Funds.

Broker/dealers  are  paid a commission for services in  matching  investors
with  Funds  whose  investment  objectives  match  such  investors'  goals.
Broker/dealers also assist in explaining the operations of  the  Funds,  in
servicing   the  account  and  in  various  other  distribution   services.
Commissions  paid to broker/dealers are typically paid at the time  of  the
purchase as a percentage of the amount invested.

Prior to July 1994, most of the U.S registered Templeton Funds and some  of
the  U.S.  registered Franklin Funds had adopted distribution  plans  under
Rule  12b-1 promulgated under the 40 Act ("Rule 12b-1"). During the  spring
of  1994,  all of the remaining Funds in the Franklin Group of Funds  (with
the  exception  of  certain money market funds) adopted Distribution  Plans
pursuant  to  Rule  12b-1 (the "Plans").  The Plans  are  approved  for  an
initial term of one year and, thereafter, must be approved annually by  the
Fund  boards and by a majority of disinterested directors.  All such  Plans
are  subject  to  termination  at  any time  by  a  majority  vote  of  the
disinterested  directors or by the Funds' shareholders.  The  Plans,  which
went  into  effect in July 1994, permit the Funds to bear certain  expenses
relating  to the distribution of their shares.  The Plans were proposed  by
Distributors  as  part of its broader restructuring  and  revision  of  its
distribution practices  in an attempt to ensure  that the Franklin Group of
Funds would be in a position to compete effectively with other mutual funds
groups in the 1990's and beyond.

At  the same time the Plans went into effect, the sales charge structure of
these  Funds was amended to eliminate the previously-assessed sales  charge
on the reinvestment by shareholders of their income dividends.  This charge
had  been  disfavored by some investors and brokers and it was  anticipated
that  the  elimination of the charge might have a positive  effect  on  the
number  of shareholders who choose to reinvest their dividends rather  than
take  them in cash.  Prior to July 1994, Distributors had retained  50%  of
the  sales  charge imposed on the reinvested dividends; the other  50%  was
paid  to  the dealer of record on the shareholder's account.  In  addition,
the  maximum front-end load increased from 4.0% to 4.25% (for income funds)
and  4.5% (for equity funds).  Distributors will, in most cases, retain the
front-end load in excess of 4%.

Fees  under the newly adopted Plans range in amount from .25% per annum  of
average daily  net assets (primarily on income funds) to .15% (primarily on
equity funds).  The implementation of the Plans provides for a lower fee on
shares acquired prior to the adoption of the Plans.  It is anticipated that
the  fees from the Plans will be paid primarily to third party dealers  who
provide  service  to  their shareholder accounts,  as  well  as  engage  in
distribution  activities.  Distributors will also be  eligible  to  receive
reimbursement from the Funds (from 0.1% to 0.5%) for expenses  involved  in
distributing the Funds, such as advertising.

As  further discussed in Item 7.  "Management's Discussion and Analysis  of
Financial  Condition  and Results of Operations" (the  "MD&A"),  after  the
close  of the fiscal year, the boards of certain of the Franklin Funds  and
Templeton  Funds approved proposals to adopt multiple classes of shares  by
offering  two  or  more alternatively priced classes of shares  where  each
class  represents  interests  in the same  Fund.   Implementation  of  such
proposals  requires  SEC  approval  and,  in  some  instances,  shareholder
approval.  Subject to such approvals, the Company anticipates introducing a
new  class of shares with a hybrid, level-load structure combining  aspects
of conventional front-end, back-end, and level-load pricing.

Revenues

The Company's revenues are derived primarily from its investment management
activities.   Total operating revenues are set forth in  the  table  below.
Investment management fees have comprised approximately 78%, 76% and 77% in
1994,  1993 and 1992, respectively, of total operating revenue for each  of
the three fiscal years reported.  Underwriting commissions from mutual fund
activities  contributed approximately 12%, 14% and 14% in  1994,  1993  and
1992,  respectively.   Transfer, trust and related fees  from  mutual  fund
activities contributed 7%, 7% and 5% in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.


Other Financial Services

The  Company's consumer lending, and real estate businesses do not  as  yet
contribute  significantly to either the revenues or the net income  of  the
Company.   Franklin Bank's operations are limited by national banking  laws
and no immediate significant increase in earnings is anticipated.  The real
estate  operations have incurred net losses since inception and the Company
does not anticipate any immediate improvement in this line of business.

Regulatory Considerations

Virtually  all aspects of the Company's businesses are subject  to  various
foreign,  federal and state laws and regulations.  As discussed above,  the
Company  and  a  number  of  its subsidiaries are registered  with  various
foreign,  federal  and state governmental agencies.  Foreign,  federal  and
state   laws   and  regulations  grant  such  supervisory  agencies   broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company
from  carrying  on its business if it fails to comply with  such  laws  and
regulations.   In such event, the possible sanctions which may  be  imposed
include  the  suspension  of  individual  employees,  limitations  on   the
Company's (or a subsidiary's) engaging in business for specified periods of
time,   the   revocation  of  the  investment  advisor   or   broker/dealer
registrations of subsidiaries and censures and fines.

The  Company's officers, directors and employees may from time to time  own
securities  which  are  also  held by the Funds.   The  Company's  internal
policies with respect to individual investments require prior clearance and
reporting of transactions and restrict certain transactions so as to reduce
the possibility of conflicts of interest.

To  the  extent that existing or future regulations affecting the  sale  of
Fund  shares or their investment strategies cause or contribute to  reduced
sales of Fund shares or impair the investment performance of the Funds, the
Company's  aggregate  assets under management and  its  revenues  might  be
adversely  affected.   Changes in regulations affecting  free  movement  of
international currencies might also adversely affect the Company.

In  1993,  the  NASD received SEC approval for a new Rule of Fair  Practice
which  limits the amount of aggregate sales charges which may  be  paid  in
connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares  sold
through  brokers.   The Rule provides that funds with an asset-based  sales
charge (most commonly provided in Distribution Plans pursuant to SEC 40 Act
Rule  12b-1)  may impose no more than 6.25% - 7.25% (depending upon whether
or  not  the fund also pays "service fees") in combined front-end, deferred
sales charges and asset-based sales charges.  The effect of that Rule might
be to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund's 12b-
1  Plan  in  a  situation where a fund has no, or limited new sales  for  a
prolonged period of time.  In that event, it is possible that a fund  which
was  experiencing  weak sales would have the situation exacerbated  by  the
fact  that it would have to limit fees to brokers under its 12b-1 Plan,  or
reduce  its upfront sales charge.  None of the Franklin Templeton Funds  is
in, or close to, that situation at the present time.


Competition

The  investment  company  and privately managed funds  industry  is  highly
competitive.   In the United States, there are over 5,100 mutual  funds  of
varying sizes and investment policies and objectives whose shares are being
offered  to  the public.  During the past three fiscal years, assets  under
management  in  the  mutual fund industry increased by over  $800  billion.
During  this  same  time  period,  the Company  was  able  to  maintain  an
approximate 4% market share of such net assets by a combination of  service
to customers, yields and performance on investments and extensive marketing
activities  with  its  broker/dealer network.  In addition,  the  Templeton
Acquisition  has  materially strengthened the ability  of  the  Company  to
compete in the growing marketplace for global investing.

The  Company  has  advertised in major national financial publications,  as
well  as on radio and television to promote name recognition and to  assist
its broker/dealer network.  Such activities included purchasing network and
cable  programming,  sponsorship of sporting  events,  sponsorship  of  The
Nightly  Business Report on public television and extensive  newspaper  and
magazine advertising.

Competition  for  sales of Fund shares is influenced  by  various  factors,
including  general  securities market conditions,  government  regulations,
global  economic conditions, portfolio performance, advertising  and  sales
promotional  efforts, share distribution channels and the type and  quality
of  dealer and shareholder services.  Many securities dealers, whose  large
retail distribution systems play an important role in the sale of shares in
the  Franklin  Templeton Funds, also sponsor competing  proprietary  mutual
funds.  The Company believes that such securities dealers value the ability
to  offer  customers a broad selection of investment alternatives and  will
continue to sell Franklin Templeton Funds, notwithstanding the availability
of  proprietary products.  However, to the extent that these firms limit or
restrict  the  sale  of  Franklin  Templeton  Funds  shares  through  their
brokerage systems in favor of these proprietary mutual funds, assets  under
management  might  decline and the Company's revenues  might  be  adversely
affected.

Another  element of competition among mutual funds is the  rates  at  which
fees  and  sales  charges  are  imposed.  The  Company  believes  that  its
investment  management  and  other fee structures  are  already  relatively
competitive  and  does  not  presently anticipate  significant  competitive
pressures  for  further  reductions.  However,  a  number  of  mutual  fund
sponsors  presently market their funds without sales charges.  As  investor
interest  in the mutual fund industry has increased, competitive  pressures
have  increased on sales charges of broker/dealer distributed  funds.   The
Company  believes  that, although this trend will continue,  a  significant
portion  of  the  investing public still relies  on  the  services  of  the
broker/dealer  community,  particularly during  weaker  market  conditions.
However, in response to competitive pressures or for other similar reasons,
the  Company might be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges which
are  currently substantially reallowed to broker/dealers. The reduction  in
such  sales charges could make the sale of shares of the Franklin Templeton
Funds  somewhat less attractive to the broker/dealer community, which could
in  turn  have  a material adverse effect on the Company's  revenues.   The
Company  believes that it is well positioned to deal with such  changes  in
marketing   trends  as  a  result  of  its  already  extensive  advertising
activities and broad based marketplace recognition.

In  addition  to  competition from other investment  company  managers  and
investment advisors, the Company and the investment company industry are in
competition  with the financial services and other investment  alternatives
offered   by  stock  brokerage  and  investment  banking  firms,  insurance
companies,  banks,  savings  and  loan  associations  and  other  financial
institutions.   Many  of  these  competitors  have  substantially   greater
resources  than  the  Company. The Company has and  continues  to  actively
pursue  sales relationships with banks and insurance companies  to  broaden
its distribution network in response to such competitive pressures.

From  time  to time, Congress has considered various proposals which  would
permit  bank holding companies and their subsidiaries to engage in various,
presently  prohibited  activities, including sponsoring  mutual  funds  and
distributing  their  securities.  These or similar proposals,  if  enacted,
could  enable  bank  affiliates to compete directly with  the  mutual  fund
industry.   In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  has
proposed amendments to its regulations governing common trust funds  which,
if  adopted,  may  increase  competition  between  banks  and  mutual  fund
companies.   The  Investment  Company Institute  and  others  have  opposed
various  aspects of these proposals.  The Company cannot determine  at  the
present time whether any of such proposals will be adopted, or, if adopted,
what effect they may have on the Company.

Special Considerations

General

As  discussed  above,  the Company's revenues are  derived  primarily  from
investment  management  activities and  the  distribution  of  mutual  fund
shares.   Broadly speaking, the direction and amount of change in  the  net
assets of the Funds are dependent upon two factors: (1) the level of  sales
of  shares of the funds as compared to redemptions of shares of the  funds;
and  (2)  the  increase or decrease in the market value of  the  securities
owned by the funds.

Over  the  past three (3) fiscal years, there have been substantial  annual
increases in the Company's assets under management due to growth and to the
Acquisition.  Although such growth continued during the current fiscal year
as  described  below  in  the MD&A, there has been  significant  volatility
during the current fiscal year in the Company's assets under management due
to  a  variety  of market conditions.  A discussion of the changes  in  the
composition  of assets under management during the last three fiscal  years
and  the effects of market changes on such net assets is also discussed  in
the  MD&A.   Subsequent  to  the close of the  fiscal  year,  assets  under
management declined from fiscal year end levels.  A decline in assets under
management   adversely  affects  the  Company's  revenues   in   a   manner
approximately proportional to such decline in net assets.

Templeton Acquisition

As a result of the Templeton Acquisition, the portfolio mix of the combined
Templeton  and Franklin Funds changed from primarily fixed income  oriented
to  both equity and fixed income components increasing the potential impact
of  changes  in  the  international  equity  market  on  the  assets  under
management of the combined entity.  On the other hand, the Company believes
that the combined mutual fund complex is more competitive as a result of  a
greater diversity of product mix available to its customers.  Market values
are  affected by many things, including the general condition  of  national
and  world  economics and the direction and volume of changes  in  interest
rates and/or inflation rates.  The effects of these factors on equity funds
and  fixed  income  funds often operate inversely  and  it  is,  therefore,
difficult to predict the net effect of any particular set of conditions  on
the level of assets under management.

Other

Subsequent to the close of the fiscal year, registrant purchased $7.1
million in unsecured Orange County, California obligations from the
Franklin Tax-Exempt Money Fund and the Franklin California Tax-Exempt Money
Fund.


Item 2.   Properties

General

The Company owns or leases offices and facilities in ten (10) locations  in
the  immediate  vicinity  of  its principal  executive  and  administrative
offices  located  at 777 Mariners Island Boulevard, San Mateo,  California.
In   addition,   the  Company  owns  several  buildings  near   Sacramento,
California,  as  well as buildings in St. Petersburg, Florida  and  Nassau,
Bahamas.   The  Company also leases facilities in various  locations  on  a
national  and worldwide basis.  Since the Company is operated on a  unified
basis,   corporate   activities,   fund  related   activities,   accounting
operations,  sales,  real  estate and banking operations,  auto  loans  and
credit  cards,  management  information system activities,  publishing  and
printing  operations,  shareholder service operations  and  other  business
activities  and operations take place in a variety of such  locations.   In
addition,  the Company or its subsidiaries lease office space in New  York,
New Jersey, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and in several other states as well  as
in   Canada,  Scotland,  Luxembourg,  Germany,  Hong  Kong,  Singapore  and
Australia.   The Company is in the process of leasing new office  space  in
France, Russia, Vietnam, and Brazil.

Property Description

Leased

The  Company leases approximately 177,000 square feet of space at  the  777
Mariners  Island  Boulevard location for an approximate monthly  rental  of
$476,000 under a lease expiring February 16, 2001.  The lease is subject to
adjustment  to  market  value  rent  in  1996.   The  Company  also  leases
approximately  121,000 square feet of office/warehouse space  at  1147  and
1149  Chess  Drive  in  Foster City, California, at an approximate  monthly
rental  of  $119,000,  expiring in June 2000.   The  Company  has  recently
entered  into  a  lease agreement for approximately 47,000 square  feet  of
office  space  at 1810 Gateway Drive, San Mateo, California.  Occupancy  of
this  property  is  expected  during  the  first  quarter  of  1995  at  an
approximate  monthly rental of $75,000, expiring in late 1997. The  Company
also  leases  approximately 37,000 square feet of office space pursuant  to
several  lease  agreements at 901 and 951 Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San
Mateo,  California,  at an approximate monthly rental  of  $62,000.   These
leases  expire at various times between September 1996 and April 2000.   In
addition, the Company leases approximately 49,000 square feet at  2  Waters
Drive,  San Mateo, California, at an approximate monthly rental of $74,000,
expiring in July 1999.

The  principal Templeton offices are located in approximately 73,000 square
feet of space in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, for an approximate monthly rental
of  $128,000  under various leases expiring in December 2000.  The  Company
leases  an aggregate of approximately 22,000 square feet in other locations
throughout the United States.  The Company also leases approximately 59,000
square  feet of office space for its offices in Canada, Scotland,  Germany,
France, Luxembourg, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia.

Owned

The  Company  maintains a customer service and data processing facility  in
the  property  that  it  owns  at 10600 White Rock  Road,  Rancho  Cordova,
California,  near  Sacramento, California.   The  Company  occupies  69,000
square  feet in this property and has leased out 52,000 square  feet  to  a
third  party  until  February  2000 at an  approximate  monthly  rental  of
$68,000.   The  Company  owns  an additional eighteen  acres  of  adjoining
undeveloped  land  on  which it has constructed  two  office  buildings  of
approximately 67,000 square feet each.  Tenant improvements for  additional
office  space  are presently being installed in the second  building.   The
Company plans to develop additional facilities on this property but has not
yet  commenced  construction.  One of such buildings is used  for  customer
service  activities.  The Company also owns and occupies an office building
with  approximately  69,000 square feet of office  space  at  1800  Gateway
Drive, San Mateo, California.

The   Company   owns  two  facilities  in  St.  Petersburg   Florida:    an
approximately  72,000  square  foot office building  primarily  devoted  to
shareholder servicing activities; and an approximately 105,000 square  foot
facility   devoted  to  a  computer  data  center,  training  and   mailing
operations.  The  Company  also owns an approximately  14,000  square  foot
office  building  in  Nassau,  Bahamas, as well  as  a  nearby  condominium
residence.

Other

The Company is the sole limited partner with a 60% partnership interest  in
Mariner  Partners,  a  California limited partnership  formed  in  1984  to
develop,  operate  and hold the property occupied by  the  Company  at  777
Mariners  Island Boulevard.  Mariner Partners obtained 30 year non-recourse
financing for the property from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company  at  an
interest rate of 8-7/8%.  The principal balance outstanding as of September
30,  1994,  was  $26.4  million.  The loan is due in November,  1996.   The
Company  anticipates  that  Mariner Partners will  have  no  difficulty  in
refinancing the property.

Item 3.   Pending Legal Proceedings

There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary
routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Company or any
of its subsidiaries was a party, or of which any of their property is the
subject; nor are any such proceedings known to be contemplated by any
governmental authorities.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Owners

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no
matter was submitted to a vote of security holders.


Charles  B.  Johnson  and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are  brothers.   Peter  M.
Sacerdote,  a  Director of the Company, is a brother-in-law of  Charles  B.
Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson. Charles E. Johnson is the son of Charles  B.
Johnson  and  the  nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.  and  Peter  Sacerdote.
Gregory  E. Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson, the nephew of  Rupert
H.  Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer  Bolt  and
Charles  E. Johnson.  Jennifer Bolt is the daughter of Charles B.  Johnson,
the niece of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote, and the sister  of
Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E. Johnson.




                                  PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters

The  Company's  common  stock  is traded on the  New  York  Stock  Exchange
("NYSE"),  the  Pacific Stock Exchange (Symbol: BEN) and the  London  Stock
Exchange.  At December 2, 1994, there were approximately 1,500 shareholders
of  record. The high and low sales prices (as adjusted for stock splits) by
quarter for the 1994 and 1993 fiscal years, as traded on the NYSE Composite
Tape, were as follows:


The  Company paid dividends, of $.32 per share in fiscal 1994 and $.28  per
share in fiscal 1993.  The Company expects to continue paying dividends  to
common stockholders depending upon earnings and other relevant factors.


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

(in 000's, except Assets under Management and per share amounts)


* Amounts are restated to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split in March 1992.


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.

GENERAL

Franklin   Resources,  Inc.  and  its  majority-owned  subsidiaries   ("the
Company") derives its revenue from its principal line of business providing
investment management, administration, and related services to the Franklin
Templeton  funds,  managed  accounts and  other  investment  products.  The
Company has a diversified base of assets under management and a full  range
of  investment management products and services to meet the needs  of  most
individuals  and institutions.  The Company's revenues are derived  largely
from the amount and composition of assets under management.

On  October  30,  1992, the Company acquired the assets and liabilities  of
Templeton,  Galbraith  &  Hansberger Ltd. ("Templeton"),  a  Cayman  Island
corporation,  for  approximately  $786 million.   The  acquisition  of  the
investment  management,  distribution and related companies  servicing  the
Templeton Family of Funds and managed accounts had the effect of increasing
the  Company's assets under management by over $20 billion to $90.7 billion
on the date of acquisition.

In  1994,  the Company continued to expand its range of investment products
and  services.   It  acquired  the  $150 million  Huntington  international
currency  funds in November 1993 and began offering various new equity  and
income  products,  both  in  the  United  States  and  abroad.   The   most
significant  developments  during 1994 were the  volatility  and,  in  some
cases,  decline in the global bond and stock markets coupled with a slowing
of  investment into mutual funds.  After growing to $117.5 billion  in  the
first four months of the fiscal year, assets under the Company's management
declined  to $113.0 billion as of June 30, 1994.  Subsequent net sales  and
market  appreciation from equity funds led to an increase in  assets  under
management to $118.2 billion as of September 30, 1994.  Since September 30,
1994, the capital markets continue to be volatile and the U.S. mutual  fund
industry  generally  is  experiencing  net  redemptions  of  assets   under
management.   Although  the industry and the Company expectations  are  for
long-term growth, the current capital market and industry environment could
have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations over the near-
term.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net  income  for the year ended September 30, 1994 was $251.3  million,  an
increase  of  $75.8  million  (43%) from  $175.5  million  in  1993,  which
increased $51.4 million (41%) from $124.1 million in 1992.  These increases
were primarily attributable to increases in the amount of revenues received
from   the   Franklin  Templeton  funds  and  institutional  assets   under
management.

Assets Under Management

As  shown  in  the table below, total assets under management  were  $118.2
billion  at  September 30, 1994, an increase of $10.7  billion  (10%)  from
107.5  billion  at September 30, 1993, which increased $38.3 billion  (55%)
from  $69.2 billion at September 30, 1992.  Such increases during the  two-
year  period  ended  September  30, 1994 are  principally  attributable  to
overall net additions to assets under management, including the $20 billion
of  acquired  Templeton assets under management, and  market  appreciation.
Certain  specific asset classes and funds, particularly fixed  income  bond
funds, did not experience these increases.

Since   1992  the  composition  of  assets  under  management  has  changed
significantly.  Fixed income funds represent 50% of assets under management
at September 30, 1994 as compared to 78% at September 30, 1992.  Equity and
income  funds  and  institutional assets  represent  50%  of  assets  under
management at September 30, 1994 as compared to 22% at September 30, 1992.

Fixed  income  funds represent $59.2 billion of assets under management  at
September  30, 1994 a decrease of $4.7 billion (7%) from $63.9  billion  at
September 30, 1993.  The substantial increase in U.S. interest rates during
1994  resulted  in  a  combination  of  both  net  redemptions  and  market
depreciation  in various fixed income funds.  Notwithstanding  this  trend,
investors continued to show relatively more interest in the tax-free income
funds due to the higher income tax rates which became effective during  the
period.   Net  assets  in  tax-free income  funds  were  $39.4  billion  at
September 30, 1994, a decrease of $1.3 billion (3%) over 1993.  Net  assets
of  U.S. government bond funds were $14.7 billion at September 30, 1994,  a
decrease  of  $3.7  billion  (20%) over  1993.   The  Company  maintains  a
conservative  investment philosophy.  Consequently,  it  has  not  utilized
derivative  securities to any material degree to enhance  yields  of  fixed
income portfolios.

Equity  and income funds represent $45.6 billion of assets under management
at  September 30, 1994 an increase of $10.6 billion (30%) from 1993.  Since
1992,  the percentage of assets under management represented by equity  and
income  funds has increased from 15% to 39% at September 30, 1994 primarily
as a result of the acquisition and growth of the Templeton Family of Funds.
Net  assets  of  global/international equity funds were  $28.0  billion  at
September  30,  1994, an increase of $8.5 billion (44%)  over  1993.   U.S.
equity/income funds were $17.6 billion at September 30, 1994,  an  increase
of  $2.1 billion (14%) over 1993, which increased $5.3 billion (52%)   over
1992.   Investors  seeking increased diversity and the prospect  of  above-
average  investment  returns  have been  attracted  to  both  domestic  and
international equity funds during this period.

Institutional  assets under management were $13.3 billion at September  30,
1994, an increase of $4.7 billion (55%) from a year ago.  This increase was
principally  attributable  to  an  increase  in  the  number  of   clients.
Institutional assets represent 11% of the Company's assets under management
at  September  30,1994. Such assets represented 8% and 7% of the  company's
assets under management at September 30, 1993 and 1992, respectively.   The
Company is strongly committed to the institutional account area and intends
to aggressively pursue its expansion and development.


* Excludes Templeton Group of Funds for period prior to acquisition


Operating Revenues

Operating Revenues:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
               $826.9      $640.7      $370.9

Total  operating  revenues increased $186.2 million (29%) over  1993  which
increased  $269.8  million (73%) over 1992, the  components  of  which  are
described below.

Investment Management Fees:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
               $647.7      $489.7      $284.0

Investment  management  fees  for  the  period  ended  September  30,  1994
increased  $158.0 million (32%) over 1993, which increased  $205.7  million
(72%) over 1992.

Investment management fees have comprised approximately 78%, 76% and 77% of
total  operating  revenues  for the fiscal  years  1994,  1993,  and  1992,
respectively.  The Company's revenues from investment management  fees  are
derived  primarily  from fixed fee arrangements based  upon  the  level  of
assets  under management with open-end and closed-end investment  companies
and   managed  accounts.   Annual  rates,  under  the  various   investment
management agreements, range from .25% to a maximum of 1.75% and  generally
decline as average net assets exceed various threshold levels.  There  have
been  no  significant  changes in the management  fee  structures  for  the
Franklin Templeton Group during 1994. During 1992, the fee structures of  a
number of the Templeton funds increased.

Underwriting Commissions:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
               $96.6        $87.1       $50.4

Underwriting  commissions for the year ended September 30,  1994  increased
$9.5  million  (11%)  over 1993, which increased $36.7 million  (73%)  over
1992.    These  increases  resulted  from  increasing  mutual  fund  sales.
Revenues  from  underwriting commissions are earned primarily  from  mutual
fund  sales.   The Franklin Templeton funds include a sales commission,  of
which a significant portion is reallowed to selling intermediaries

During  1994,  the  shareholders of the FRANKLIN GROUP  OF  FUNDS  approved
distribution plans pursuant to Rule 12b-1 of the Investment Company Act  of
1940.   In conjunction with the implementation of these plans, the Franklin
mutual  fund  sales  commission structure was modified to  eliminate  sales
charges  on  reinvested dividends and replace them with an increased  front
end  load.  These changes are expected to provide a more competitive  sales
structure  while making underwriting commission revenues more sensitive  to
sales  levels.   Templeton funds registered in the  United  States  adopted
distribution plans pursuant to Rule 12b-1, effective January 1, 1992, which
had the effect of increasing fund sales and related commission revenues for
the eleven-month period ended September 30, 1993.

The  Boards  of Directors of the Franklin and Templeton mutual  funds  have
adopted,  subject to the approval of the funds' shareholders, a multi-class
sales-pricing  structure.  The new pricing structure is  also  expected  to
increase  the  Company's  competitiveness  while  reducing  net  commission
revenues.   Sales of the new shares will require the Company  to  fund  one
half  of the sales commissions on these shares at the time of sale.   These
amounts  are  expected to be substantially recovered over the period  of  a
year  through the new pricing structure.  If approved by shareholders,  the
multi-class  shares  structure would likely  be  implemented  during  third
quarter of fiscal 1995.

Transfer, Trust and Related Fees:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
               $54.6        $45.1      $19.5

Transfer,  trust and related fees for the period ended September  30,  1994
increased  $9.5  million (21%) as compared to 1993, which  increased  $25.6
million  (131%)  over  1992.  These fees are generally  fixed  charges  per
account  which  vary with the particular type of mutual  fund  and  service
being rendered. Consequently, these fees are principally dependent upon the
number  of  shareholder accounts.  During 1993, the  Company  combined  its
transfer  agency  activities into a single entity  which  has,  and  should
continue to result in, improved efficiencies and services.

Banking/Finance, Real Estate, and Other:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
                $28.0       $18.8       $17.0

Banking/finance,  real  estate  and  other  revenues  for  the  year  ended
September  30, 1994 increased $9.2 million (49%) over 1993, which increased
$1.8  million  (11%) over 1992. The banking/finance group contributed  $2.5
million, $1.1 million and $.9 million to operating income in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively. During 1994 net loans receivable, principally from auto
loan  and  credit  card portfolios, increased by $263.0 million  (204%)  to
$391.8  million  at September 30, 1994.  Earnings from the  banking/finance
group are expected to continue to grow as the Company continues to increase
its investment in the loan portfolios.

The  Company's  real estate operations incurred operating  losses  of  $2.0
million,   $7.9  million  and  $4.4  million  in  1994,  1993   and   1992,
respectively, as a result of the continued depressed real estate markets in
areas in which real estate operations are active.

Operating Expenses

Operating Expenses:

(in millions)   1994        1993        1992
               $457.3      $355.9      $184.4

Operating  expenses for the year ended September 30, 1994 increased  $101.4
million  (28%) over 1993, which increased $171.5 million (93%)  over  1992.
These  increases  principally resulted from the general  expansion  of  the
organization, with the Templeton acquisition being the material  factor  in
1993.

Operating income as a percentage of operating revenue was 45% for the  year
ended  1994 as compared to 44% and 50% for the years ended 1993  and  1992,
respectively.   The decrease in the operating profit margin for  the  years
ending  1994  and  1993  as compared to 1992 is primarily  attributable  to
purchase  accounting  and  other  costs  related  to  the  acquisition   of
Templeton.   For  the years ended 1994 and 1993, amortization  of  goodwill
represents  approximately  5% of the Company's  total  operating  expenses.
Also, the Company has implemented an annual incentive plan during the  year
which  provides  eligible  employees payment of both  cash  and  restricted
stock.  The costs associated with the annual incentive plan are charged  to
income  currently.  Costs are amortized over the contract period for  those
incentives  granted  prior to the adoption of the  annual  incentive  plan.
Deferred incentives begin vesting in 1995 and extend through 1998.

General  and administrative expenses for the year ended September 30,  1994
were  $360.5  million, an increase of $83.1 million (30%)  as  compared  to
1993.  This increase is principally related to the general expansion of the
business.   General  and administrative expenses increased  $138.8  million
(100%)  in  1993  as compared to 1992, in large part as  a  result  of  the
Templeton acquisition.

Selling expenses were $69.1 million for the year ended September 30,  1994,
an  increase  of  $17.0 million (33%) as compared to 1993, which  increased
$17.0  million  (48%)  from $35.1 million in 1992.  In  1994,  the  Company
achieved  certain efficiencies by combining the advertising  and  promotion
functions  of the Franklin Templeton businesses.  The Company continues  to
increase  its  advertising  and promotion particularly  for  the  Templeton
funds.

Interest  expense of the banking subsidiary was $9.4 million for the  years
ended  September 30, 1994 and 1993, a decrease of $1.1 million  (11%)  from
1992.   During  1994,  a  portion  of  the  banking/finance  group's  loans
receivable were financed through the Company.  The interest expense  funded
by   the   Company   was   $2.9  million  which  is  reflected   in   other
income/(expenses).   Consequently, the total interest expense  attributable
to  the  banking/finance group was $12.3 million for  the  one  year  ended
September  30,  1994, an increase of $2.9 million (31%)  and  $1.8  million
(17%) over 1993 and 1992, respectively.

Total  operating expenses will likely continue to increase with the overall
expansion  of  the business, the increase in competition and the  Company's
ongoing commitment to improve its products and services.

Other Income (Expenses)

Investment and other income for the year ended September 30, 1994 was $22.7
million, an increase of $4.4 million (24%) from 1993, which decreased  $2.1
million  (10%) from $20.4 million in 1992.  The net increase in  investment
income  during  the  current year results from a  combination  of  factors,
including  the  increase  in  average  balances  of  cash  equivalents  and
investment securities, increase in the average level of interest rates  and
realization of capital gains compared to the prior periods.

Interest  expense for the year ended September 30, 1994 was $29.8  million,
an  increase of $1.0 million from 1993, which increased  $26.7 million from
1992.  The increase in interest expense in 1994 is attributable to the debt
incurred  in  the  Company's acquisition of Templeton,  investment  in  the
banking/finance  group  auto and credit card loan  portfolios  and  to  the
general rise in interest rates.


FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Stockholders' equity was $930.8 million at September 30, 1994, an  increase
of  $210.4  million  (29%)  from $720.4 million at  year  end  1993,  which
increased $253.2 million (54%) from $467.2 million at year end 1992.

Cash  provided  by operating activities for the period ended September  30,
1994  was  $273.5  million an increase of $74.1 million (37%)  compared  to
$199.4 million in 1993.  Net cash expended in investing activities in  1994
was   $273.4   million,   including  $268.2   million   invested   in   the
banking/finance  group  loan  portfolios and  $39.2  million  used  in  the
purchase  of premises and equipment.  The remainder came from the Company's
investment  portfolio,  including  its  banking/finance  and  real   estate
operations.   The  Company  used net cash of  $92.7  million  in  1994  for
financing  activities.  The issuance of $399.4 million in commercial  paper
and medium-term notes was offset by $437.8 million in payments on long-term
debt.  The  Company  paid $25.4 million in dividends to stockholders.   The
Company  purchased Treasury Stock of $26.4 million primarily  in  the  open
market as part of a continuing Company policy.  At September 30, 1994,  the
Company  held liquid assets of $515.0 million, including $210.4 million  of
cash and cash equivalents as compared to $592.4 million and $303.0 million,
respectively, at September 30, 1993.

In  May 1994, the Company replaced the $360 million term note facility with
a  more flexible financing structure comprised of a $300 million commercial
paper  program and a $300 million medium-term note program.  As a  part  of
this  new financing structure, the Company established two revolving credit
and  competitive  auction facilities as back-up for  the  commercial  paper
program.  The total bank credit facilities are $300 million, divided evenly
between a 364-day and a five-year revolving credit facility.

Financing  for the $786 million Templeton acquisition in 1993 was  provided
by  the  proceeds  of $150 million of subordinated debentures  with  option
rights,  issued prior to the 1993 fiscal year specifically to  finance  the
purchase,  a $360 million term loan, approximately $87 million in  Franklin
stock  issued  to  Templeton  management  and  employee  shareholders,  and
approximately $189 million of additional cash.

The  $150 million of subordinated debentures require payment of semi-annual
interest  at the rate of 6.25% per annum, resulting in semi-annual payments
of  approximately  $4.7  million.  The debentures  are  redeemable  at  the
election  of  the holder, anytime on or after August 3, 1997,  at  a  price
ranging from 93.65% to 100% of face value.

Swap agreements, previously entered into, effectively fix interest rates on
$105  million  of  commercial paper up to fifteen months from  the  balance
sheet  date.   Fixed rates of interest under these swap arrangements  range
from 4.44% to 5.02%.

The  Company  anticipates  that 1995 property and  equipment  acquisitions,
initially  budgeted  at more than $30 million, will be funded  from  liquid
assets currently available and from future operating cash inflows.

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

During  fiscal 1993, the Company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," and No. 115, "Accounting
for  Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."   The  cumulative
effects of adopting these standards were immaterial.


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index Of Consolidated Financial Statements And Schedules
for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992


                                 CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

                                                              Pages

Report of Independent Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   September 30, 1994 and 1993

Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended
  September 30, 1994, 1993, and 1992

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity,
  for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
  for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Schedule:

    II.  Consolidated Amounts Receivable from Employees
    IV. Short-Term Borrowings
    X.  Consolidated Supplementary Profit and Loss Information


   All other schedules have been omitted as the information is provided  in
the financial statements or in related notes thereto or are not required to
be filed as the information is not applicable.




                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Franklin Resources, Inc.:


We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  financial
statement schedules of Franklin Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed  in
Item  14(a)  of  this Form 10-K.  These financial statements and  financial
statement  schedules  are the responsibility of the  Company's  management.
Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the  audit  to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of  material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test  basis,
evidence   supporting  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in   the   financial
statements.   An  audit  also includes assessing the accounting  principles
used  and  significant estimates made by management, as well as  evaluating
the  overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our  audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in  all  material respects, the consolidated financial position of Franklin
Resources, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of September 30, 1994 and 1993, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each  of  the
three  years  in  the period ended September 30, 1994, in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.  In addition, in our opinion, the
financial  statement  schedules  referred  to  above,  when  considered  in
relation  to  the  basic financial statements taken  as  a  whole,  present
fairly,  in all material respects, the information required to be  included
therein.


Coopers & Lybrand  L.L.P.



San Francisco, California
December 2, 1994








FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
September  30, 1994 and 1993

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
September  30, 1994 and 1993


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992



The  accompanying  notes  are an integral part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.


FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
for the years ended September  30, 1994, 1993 and 1992

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation:
The  consolidated  financial statements include the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources,  Inc.  and its majority-owned subsidiaries (the "Company").  The
acquired  Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. ("Templeton")  operations
are  included  from  the acquisition date, October 30, 1992.  All  material
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated from the consolidated
financial statements.

Foreign Currency Translation:
Assets  and  liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at  current
exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and related revenues
and  expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the
period.  Net  exchange  gains  and losses resulting  from  translation  are
excluded  from  income  and  are  recorded  as  a  separate  component   of
stockholders'  equity.  Foreign currency transaction gains and  losses  are
reflected in income currently.

Major Customers:
Substantially  all  revenues  earned by  the  Company  are  from  providing
investment  management, underwriting, stock transfer and trust services  to
the  Franklin  Templeton funds that operate in the United  States,  Canada,
Europe  and other international markets under various rules and regulations
set  forth  by  the  Securities and Exchange Commission,  individual  state
agencies  and  foreign  governments.  All services are  provided  to  these
mutual  funds under contracts that definitively set forth the  fees  to  be
charged for these services.  The majority of these contracts are subject to
periodic review and approval by each fund's Board of Directors/Trustees and
shareholders (See Note 13).

Recognition of Revenues:
Investment management, stock transfer and trust fees and investment  income
are  all accrued as earned. Underwriting commissions on the sale of  mutual
fund  shares  are  recorded  on the trade date,  net  of  amounts  paid  to
unaffiliated intermediaries.

Deferred Costs:
Deferred  costs result from the sale of certain U.S., Canadian and European
based mutual funds which have deferred sales charges and distribution fees.
Amortization  of  such  deferred  costs  is  charged  against  mutual  fund
underwriting commission revenues on a straight-line basis over a period  of
five  years  for the U.S. based funds, forty months for the Canadian  based
funds and four years for the European funds. Deferred costs related to  the
issuance  of  debt are amortized to interest expense over the life  of  the
related debt.

Taxes on Income:
Effective October 1, 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for
income  taxes  from the income method to the liability method  required  by
Financial  Accounting  Standards Board Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 109.  The effect of adopting SFAS No. 109 on income in
the  year of adoption was immaterial, as was the cumulative effect  of  the
accounting change on prior years.

Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Cash  and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks
or  other high credit quality financial institutions, debt instruments with
original  maturities  of  three months or less,  and  other  highly  liquid
investments,  including money market funds, which are  readily  convertible
into  cash.   Due to the relatively short-term nature of these instruments,
the carrying value approximates fair value.

Investment Valuation:
The  Company's  investments  in  the Franklin  Templeton  funds  and  other
securities  available-for-sale are carried at market value.  The  resulting
unrealized gains and losses are reported net of tax as a separate component
of  stockholders' equity until realized.  Market values for investments  in
open-end  mutual  funds  are based on the last reported  net  asset  value.
Market values for other investments are based on the last reported price on
the  exchange  on  which they are traded.  Investments  not  traded  on  an
exchange are carried at management's estimate of market value.

Investments  in  real  estate are carried at  the  lower  of  cost  or  net
realizable value, with depreciation provided using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Realized  gains  and  losses are recognized on the specific  identification
method and are included in investment income currently.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments:
Loans Receivable: The fair values of the banking/finance group's performing
residential  mortgage  loans  and home equity  loans  are  estimated  using
current   market   comparable  information  for  securitizable   mortgages,
adjusting for credit and other relevant characteristics. The fair value  of
consumer loans is estimated using interest rates that consider the  current
credit  and  interest rate risk inherent in the loans and current  economic
and lending conditions.

Deposits:  The fair values of the banking subsidiary's deposits subject  to
immediate  withdrawal  are equal to the amount payable  on  demand  at  the
reporting  date.  Fair values for fixed-rate certificates  of  deposit  are
estimated  using  interest rates currently offered on  time  deposits  with
similar remaining maturities.  The carrying values for deposits subject  to
immediate   withdrawal   and  for  fixed-rate   certificates   of   deposit
approximated fair value.

Long-Term  Debt:  The  fair values of long-term debt  are  estimated  using
interest  rates  currently offered to the Company  for  debt  with  similar
remaining maturities.  The fair value of the option rights attached to  the
subordinated debentures is calculated based on the Company's closing  stock
price and the option and redemption prices at the reporting date.

Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk:
The  Company  is a party to interest rate swap agreements in  effect  on  a
portion  of its long-term debt. The differential to be paid or received  is
accrued as the interest rates change and is recognized over the term of the
agreements.  The  carrying  value of these  instruments  approximates  fair
value.

The  banking/finance  group  is a party to commitments  to  extend  credit.
Because many of the commitments are expected to expire without being  drawn
upon, the total committed amounts do not necessarily represent future  cash
requirements.  Fair  value  of  these  instruments  is  based  on   current
settlement  values and fees and interest rates currently charged  to  enter
into  similar  agreements, taking into account the remaining  term  of  the
agreements and the counterparties' credit standing.

Premises and Equipment:
Furniture  and  equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated  on  the
straight-line  basis  over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures  for
repairs  and  maintenance are charged to expense when  incurred.  Leasehold
improvements are amortized on the straight-line basis over their  estimated
useful lives or the lease term, whichever is shorter.

Goodwill:
The  excess of cost over fair market value of the Company's acquisition  of
Templeton  is  amortized on a straight-line basis over a  period  of  forty
years.

Earnings Per Share:
Earnings  per  share  is computed by dividing net income  by  the  weighted
average  number  of  shares  of common stock and common  stock  equivalents
(stock  options and debenture option rights) considered outstanding  during
each  year.  The weighted average number of shares outstanding during 1994,
1993 and 1992 was 81,932,321, 81,594,765, and 77,971,835, respectively. The
weighted   average  numbers  of  shares  outstanding  reflect   retroactive
application  of  the stock split in March 1992.  Common  stock  equivalents
utilized  in  computing earnings per share in 1994 and 1993 were  1,777,220
and  1,261,833  for primary and 1,777,220 and 2,117,004 for fully  diluted,
respectively.  Common stock equivalents had an immaterial effect  on  fully
diluted earnings per share in 1992.

Reclassifications:   Certain  amounts  in  the  1993  and  1992   financial
statements  have been reclassified to correspond to the 1994  presentation.
These  reclassifications did not affect previously reported net  income  or
retained earnings.

2. Banking/Finance Group Loans, and Allowance for Loan Losses

The  banking/finance group's loans at September 30, 1994 and 1993 consisted
of the following:


The  estimated fair value of net loans receivable as of September 30,  1994
and 1993 was $392.7 and $129.6 million, respectively.

Included  in  the  banking/finance group's loans is an allowance  for  loan
losses for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993, and 1992 as follows:




3. Investments

Investments at September 30, 1994 and 1993 consisted of the following:



Investments  in  the  Franklin  Templeton funds  are  shares  of  regulated
investment companies for which the Company acts as investment manager.

Proceeds  from  the sale of investment securities for 1994, 1993  and  1992
were $67.4 million, $57.2 million and $24.3 million respectively.  Gains of
$1.2  million, $1.5 million and $2.5 million were realized on  these  sales
for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

At  September  30,  1994,  debt securities of the  banking/finance  group's
investment  portfolio  at amortized cost and estimated  market  value  have
scheduled maturities as follows:


Other debt securities have scheduled maturities as follows:



4. Premises and Equipment

The  following is a summary of premises and equipment at September 30, 1994
and 1993:





5. Segment Information

The  Company conducts operations in four principal geographic areas of  the
world:  North  America,  the Bahamas, Europe and Asia/Pacific.  Revenue  by
geographic area includes fees and commissions charged to customers and fees
charged  to  affiliates.   Operating income is defined  as  pre-tax  income
excluding  non-banking  interest expense.  Identifiable  assets  are  those
assets used exclusively in the operations of each geographic area.

Information is summarized below:


Summarized below are the business segments:



The  mutual  funds  segment's assets are primarily  receivables  from,  and
investments  in,  Franklin Templeton mutual funds  and  goodwill  from  the
acquisition  of  Templeton.  The  banking/finance  segment's   assets   are
primarily investment securities and consumer loans.

6. Debt

Debt at September 30, 1994 and 1993 was as follows:



Maturities  of  long-term debt excluding capital lease obligations  are  as
follows (in thousands):

              1995    $150,000
              1996      80,000
        After 1999     150,000
                      $380,000

During  1994, the Company repaid $296.0 million in outstanding senior  bank
debt  with  the proceeds from $300.0 million in commercial paper offerings.
The Company has two credit agreements with a group of commercial banks that
will  allow it at its option to refinance certain amounts up to five  years
from  the  closing  date, May 19, 1994.  In accordance with  the  Company's
intention and ability to refinance these obligations on a long-term  basis,
$150 million of the outstanding balance has been classified long-term.  The
credit  agreements  include  various restrictive  covenants,  including:  a
capitalization ratio, interest coverage ratio, minimum working capital  and
limitation  on  additional debt. The Company was  in  compliance  with  all
covenants as of September 30, 1994.

The  Company  has  interest  rate  swap agreements  which  effectively  fix
interest  rates  on  $105.0 million of commercial paper  over  a  three  to
fifteen  month  period from the balance sheet date.   The  fixed  rates  of
interest range from 4.44% to 5.02%.

During 1994, the Company initiated a $300 million medium-term note program.
Four  notes totaling $80 million were issued maturing through 1996.   Twice
yearly, interest payments are due on April 15 and October 15.

The  subordinated  debentures mature on August 3, 2002  and  have  a  fixed
interest  rate of 6.25% per annum.  Under certain circumstances, all  or  a
portion  of the debentures could pay additional interest, increasing  to  a
maximum rate of 7.77%.

The  subordinated debentures have non-detachable option rights which  allow
the  holder to purchase common shares of the Company at any time during the
term  of the debentures, for cash or in redemption of the debentures.   The
Company may redeem the debentures any time after August 3, 1997, or sooner,
to  the  extent  options  are  exercised.  The  maximum  number  of  shares
purchasable under the option rights is 4,721,435 shares.  The option  price
ranges from $28.65 to $31.77 per share and the redemption price ranges from
93.65% to 100% of face value, over the term of the debentures.


7. Investment Income

Substantially  all  of  the  Company's dividend  income  was  generated  by
investments in the Franklin Templeton funds (See Note 3).

8. Taxes on Income

Taxes  on income for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992  are
comprised of the following:



The  components  of the deferred provision for income taxes  for  the  year
ended September 30, 1992 consisted of the following :

(Dollars in thousands)                                       1992

State taxes                                                $(1,154)
Net effect of income and expenses reported in the
   years received or paid for tax purposes and included
   in financial statements as accrued                         (469)
Excess of tax depreciation  over book                           341
                                                                ___

                                                           $(1,282)
                                                            =======

The  major  components  of  the net deferred  tax  asset(liability)  as  of
September 30, 1994 and 1993 were as follows :



There  are  approximately $15.4 million of foreign tax net  operating  loss
carryforwards  which  do not expire. In addition, there  are  approximately
$48.5  million  in state tax net operating loss carryforwards  that  expire
between 2005 and 2009.  A valuation allowance has been recognized to offset
the  related  deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of  realizing  the
benefit of the loss carryforwards.

A  substantial  portion  of  the undistributed earnings  of  the  Company's
foreign subsidiaries has been reinvested and is not expected to be remitted
to  the parent company.  Accordingly, no U.S. Federal or state income taxes
have  been provided thereon.  At September 30, 1994, the cumulative  amount
of  reinvested income was approximately $110 million.  The determination of
the  unrecognized deferred tax relating to such reinvested  income  is  not
practicable.

The  following is a reconciliation between the amount of tax expense at the
federal  statutory rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations  for
the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively:



9. Commitments

The  Company  leases office space (including space from  an  unconsolidated
affiliate)  and  equipment  under long-term operating  leases  expiring  at
various dates through fiscal year 2001.  Lease expenses were $15.1 million,
$12.1  million  and $8.4 million for the fiscal years ended  September  30,
1994,  1993  and  1992,  respectively.  At September  30,  1994,  remaining
operating lease commitments are as follows (in thousands):

                    1995     $14,370
                    1996      12,961
                    1997      11,895
                    1998      10,717
                    1999      10,012
              Thereafter      13,864
                             $73,819

The  Company  has  also entered into capital leases for  certain  equipment
(primarily  computer equipment) with a cost of $7.8 million and accumulated
amortization  of  $2.8  million  at September  30,  1994.   Future  minimum
payments  under  such leases as of September 30, 1994 are  as  follows  (in
thousands):

                    1995      $2,313
                    1996       1,838
                    1997       1,144
                    1998         295
                    1999          13
                               5,603
   Less imputed interest         634
                     Net      $4,969

At  September 30, 1994, the Company's banking/finance group had commitments
to extend credit as follows (in thousands):

Credit card lines           $306,757
Real estate equity lines       1,367
Consumer lines                   599
                            $308,723

The carrying value of these commitments approximates fair value.


The  Company through certain subsidiaries acts as fiduciary for  retirement
and  employee  benefit plans.  At September 30, 1994 assets held  in  trust
were approximately $9.1 billion.

10. Stockholders' Equity

On  March  5,  1992,  the Board of Directors approved a  two-for-one  stock
split,  for which the Company issued 38,991,437 additional shares of common
stock.   During  the  years ended September 30, 1994, 1993  and  1992,  the
Company  paid dividends to common stockholders of $.32, $.28, and $.26  per
share,  respectively  (as  restated for the March  1992  two-for-one  stock
split).

11. Employee Stock Option Plans

The  stockholders  have adopted stock option plans which  provide  for  the
grant of options to purchase up to 2,358,250 shares of the Company's common
stock  to  officers  and  other key employees of  the  Company.  Terms  and
conditions  (including  price, exercise date  and  number  of  shares)  are
determined  by  the  Board  of  Directors,  which  administers  the  plans.
Information  on  the  plans for the three years ended September  30,  1994,
adjusted to reflect the 1992 stock split, is as follows:



There  were  1,179,272  unoptioned shares available  for  the  granting  of
options  under the plans at September 30, 1994.  The Company  recognizes  a
charge  to  income  in  connection with the plans to the  extent  that  the
options granted are below the fair market value of the common stock at  the
time of grant.

12. Employee Benefit and Incentive Plans

The  Company  has  defined contribution profit sharing plans  covering  all
eligible  U.S. employees of the Company who are not covered by a collective
bargaining  agreement.   Contributions are based  on  the  Company's  prior
year's  results  of  operations  and are made  at  the  discretion  of  the
Company's  Board of Directors.  The Company contributed $4.9 million,  $2.8
million  and  $2.6  million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively,  that
related to the 1993, 1992 and 1991 plan years.

The  Company sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution pension plan  in  which
certain  U.S. employees are eligible to participate. The Company funds  the
401(k)  plan  by  matching  employee contributions,  subject  to  statutory
limitations.  Employer contributions were $1.0 million and $.8 million  for
the years ended September 30, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The  Company  sponsors restricted stock arrangements  for  certain  of  its
employees.  The Company has issued shares of its common stock in the  names
of  the  employees.  The deferred compensation cost of these securities  is
amortized  on  a straight-line basis to the date the stock vests  with  the
employees. The unamortized cost of the restricted shares of $7.7 million as
of September 30, 1994, is shown as a reduction of stockholders' equity.

13. Other Matters

Commission  and fee revenue from the following mutual funds  accounted  for
more than 10% of total revenues in the years indicated:

                                                 1994        1993      1992
Franklin Custodian Funds                          14%         19%       25%
Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund           -          11%       16%

At  September 30, 1994, other receivables include $23.5 million in advances
to  a  limited partnership for which a subsidiary of the Company acts as  a
general partner.  Subsequently, these amounts have been paid.


14. Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited)



Earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock  split
in 1992.


15. Acquisition of Templeton

On  October 30, 1992, the Company acquired substantially all of the  assets
and  liabilities  of  Templeton, which through  its  subsidiaries  was  the
manager  of  the  Templeton  Family  of Funds  and  private  accounts.  The
acquisition  was  accounted for as a purchase, with  a  purchase  price  of
approximately  $786  million  of  which  approximately  $713  million   was
allocated to goodwill.  The purchase was financed by $360 million  in  bank
debt,  $150  million  in subordinated debentures with option  rights,  $189
million in cash and $87 million in the Company's common stock.

Based on unaudited financial data, had the acquisition been made on October
1,  1991, pro forma revenues, net income and net income per share  for  the
year  ended September 30, 1992, would have been approximately $540 million,
$130 million and $1.60, respectively.

Pro  forma  results  for  the year ended September  30,  1993,  as  if  the
acquisition  had  been made on October 1, 1992, are not presented  as  they
would  not be materially different from the reported results which  include
the  operations  of  Templeton for the period  from  October  30,  1992  to
September 30, 1993.


Franklin Resources, Inc.
Schedule II.  Consolidated Amounts Receivable From Employees
for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993, and 1992




Schedule IX.  Short-Term Borrowing (Dollars in thousands)




1   At  September  30, 1994, in accordance with the Company's  ability  and
intent,  $150 million of commercial paper has been classified as long-term.
See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.

2   Weighted average interest rate was computed as the sum of the month end
effective  interest rates divided by the number of months that  there  were
balances outstanding.




Schedule X. Consolidated Supplementary Profit And Loss Information
for the years ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992 (Dollars in
thousands)


                                                   Column B
                                            Charged to Cost and Expenses
                 Column A                  1994        1993        1992

               Advertising               $54,884     $38,272     $26,533


Taxes,  other than income taxes; maintenance and repairs; depreciation  and
amortization  of  furniture and equipment; and royalties  were  either  not
present or were immaterial in amount. Information related to rental  income
is  shown  in Note 7 to the financial statements.  Amortization of goodwill
is shown on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Income.


Item 9.   Disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure

None
                                 PART III
                                     
                                     
Items 10-13 are incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy
soliciting  material to be used in connection with the  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders to be held January 24, 1995.

                                  PART IV
                                     
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)  Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial
          statements filed as part of this report.

   (2)  Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial
          statement schedules filed as part of this report.

   (3)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

     (3)(i)  Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November
          28, 1969

    (3)(ii)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
          Incorporation, as filed March 1, 1985

   (3)(iii)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
          Incorporation, as filed April 1, 1987

    (3)(iv)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
          Incorporation, as filed February 2, 1994

     (3)(v)  Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10
          (File No. 06952)

       10.1  Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth
          Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
          incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
          30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

       10.2  Representative Business Management Agreement between Templeton
          Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Global Investors, Inc.
          incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 10.2 to the 1993 Annual
          Report

       10.3  Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton
          Growth Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
          incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual
          Report

       10.4  Representative Distribution Agreement between Templeton Growth
          Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1993 Annual Report

       10.5  Representative Investment Management Agreement between
          Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith and
          Hansberger Ltd. incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
          1993 Annual Report

       10.6  Representative Management Agreement between Advisers and the
          Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by referenced to Exhibit
          10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

       10.7  Representative Distribution Agreement between Distributors and
          the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by referenced to Exhibit
          10.2 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.8  Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan between Distributors
          and the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by referenced to
          Exhibit 10.3 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.9  Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between FTIS and
          the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.4 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.10 Representative Amendment to Shareholder Services Agreement
          between FTIS and the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.11 Registrant's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan approved
          January 19, 1994 incorporated by referenced to the Company's 1994
          Proxy

       10.12 Registrant's Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994
          incorporated by reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy

       21    List of Subsidiaries

       23    Consent of Independent Accountant

       27    Financial Data Schedule

       99(i) Report on internal accounting control of transfer agent from
          Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

       99(ii)Report on internal accounting control of transfer agent from
          McGladrey & Pullen


(b)     A Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 28, 1994 was filed on
          August 4, 1994 attaching Registrant's press release dated July
          28, 1994 under Items 5 and 7.

(c)     See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)     No separate financial statements are required; schedules are
          included in Item 8.

                              EXHIBIT (3)(i)

(AS FILED NOVEMBER 28, 1969)

                       CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                     
                                    OF
                                     
                         FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
                                     
      The undersigned, a natural person, for the purpose of organizing a
corporation for conducting the business and promoting the purposes
hereinafter stated, under the provi-sions and subject to the requirements
of the laws of the State of Delaware (particularly Chapter 1, Title 8 of
the Delaware Code and the acts amendatory thereof and supple-mental
thereto, and known, identified and referred to as the "General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware"), hereby certifies that:

     FIRST:    The name of the corporation (hereinafter   called the
"corporation") is FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

     SECOND:   The address, including street, number, city, and county,of
the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 229
South State Street, City of Dover, County of Kent; and the name of the
registered agent of the corporation in the State of Delaware at such
address is The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc.

     THIRD:    The nature of the business and of the pur-poses to be
conducted and promoted by the corporation, which shall be in addition to
the authority of the corporation to conduct any lawful business, to promote
any lawful purpose, and to engage in any lawful act or activity for which
corpor-ations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware, is as follows:

     (a)  To engage in and carry on the business of brokers and dealers in
securities of every kind, character or description what-soever;to
underwrite and distribute on behalf of itself and of others, securities of
every kind, character or description whatsoever and to participate with
others in any such under-writing or distribution; to negotiate private
placements of any such securities; to do a general securities business in
all branches thereof to the full extent permitted by law, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a general brokerage,
under-writing and investment business,and to do any and all things which
may be useful in connec-tion with or incidental to the conduct of such
business and, whether or not in connec-tion therewith, to purchase,
subscribe for, borrow, acquire, hold, sell, distribute, exchange, assign,
transfer, lend, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, guarantee, deal in or
otherwise effect any and all transactions   of every kind,  character  or
description whatsoever  in  or  with  respect  to     such securities,  and
with respect to  foreign exchange, acceptances and commer- cial paper of
every kind, character or description whatsoever, except bills of exchange.

          (b)  To engage in and carry on   the business of brokers and
dealers in commodities (which term as used in this Certificate of
Incorporation includes contracts for the future delivery thereof)  of every
kind, character or description whatsoever and, whether or not in connection
therewith, to purchase, borrow, acquire, hold, exchange, sell, distribute,
lend, mortgage, pledge, or otherwise dispose of,  or import or export or
turn to account in  any manner and generally to deal in or otherwise effect
any and all transactions of every kind, character or description whatso-
ever in or with respect to commodities and products, merchandise, articles
of commerce, materials, personal property, of every kind, character or
description whatsoever and any interest therein, and instruments evidencing
rights to acquire such interests,to guarantee any and all obligations
relating to transac-tions made on any board of trade, commodities exchange,
or similar institution, and to do any and all things which may be useful in
connection with or incidental to the conduct of such business.

     (c)  To maintain accounts with and for customers,of every
kind,character or descrip-tion whatsoever,including margin accounts, with
respect to securities and commodities and to do anything incidental to the
maintenance of such accounts.

     (d)  To render advisory, investigatory, supervisory, investment,
managerial or other services to any person,corporation,trust, firm, public
authority or organization of any kind.

     (e)  To act in any capacity whatsoever   as financial, commercial or
business agent or representative,general or special,or as factor, broker or
in any other capacity whatsoever for, and to effect any and all
transactions of every kind, character or description whatsoever for the
account of any person, corporation, trust, firm, public authority or
organization of any kind.

     (f)  To acquire and hold one or more memberships in securities
exchanges, boards of trade, commodities exchanges, clearing corpora-tions
or associations, or similar institutions located within or without the
United States or to otherwise secure membership privileges thereon, and to
acquire and hold membership in any association of brokers, security dealers
or commodity dealers, or any other association, membership in which will in
any way facilitate the conduct of its business.

     (g)  To hold as nominee, custodian or otherwise, any securities or
commodities belonging to others, to issue appropriate receipts or
certificates therefor, and while holding such securities or commodities to
exercise all of the rights, powers and privileges of ownership thereof,
including the right to loan to others.

     (h)  To guarantee the signatures of customers or others whenever such
guarantees are convenient in the conduct of its business.

     (i)  To cause or allow the legal title to, or any legal or equitable
interest in, any property of any sort of the Corporation to remain or be
vested or registered in the name of any other person, corporation, trust,
firm, public authority or organization of any kind, whether upon trust for
or as agent or nominee of the Corporation, or otherwise for its account or
benefit.

     (j)  To transact a general real estate agency and brokerage business,
including acting as agent, broker or attorney in fact for any person,
corporation, trust, firm, public authority or organization of any kind in
sale and lease-back transactions and generally in buying, selling, and
dealing in real property and any interests and estates therein, on
commission or otherwise, renting and managing of estates, making, arranging
for, or obtaining loans upon such property, and supervising, managing and
protecting such property and all loans, interests in, and claims affecting
the same.

     (k)  To borrow money for any business, object or purpose of the
Corporation from time to time without limit as to amount; to issue any kind
of evidence of indebtedness, whether or not in connection with borrowing
money, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
evidence of indebtedness convertible into shares of captial stock of the
Corporation; to secure the payment of any indebtedness by the creation of
any interest in any of the property or rights of the Corporation, whether
owned at the time such indebtedness is incurred or thereafter acquired, or
by the mortgaging, pledging or hypothecating of property of every kind,
character or description whatsoever, whether owned by the Corporation or,
when the Corporation has the right so to do, when owned by others.

     (l)  To loan to any person, corporation, trust, firm, public authority
or organization of any kind any of its funds or property, with or without
security, and to guarantee the loans of any of the foregoing.

     (m)  To hold securities of every kind, character or description
whatsoever of, or any other interests in, any other corporation or business
organization whatsoever organized under the laws of the United States or of
any State, Territory or Possession of the United States or of any foreign
country or of any subdivision, possession or dependency of any such foreign
country, without regard to the business carried on by such corporation or
business organization or to the part of the world in which it is carried
on, to do any and all acts and things necessary, advisable or desirable for
the preservation and enhancement in value of any of such securities or
interests, to make loans or grant subsidies to or otherwise assist, and to
guarantee the obligations of or the payment of dividends by, any such
corporation or business organization.

     (n)  To purchase, hold, sell, transfer, reissue or cancel shares of
its own capital stock or any instruments evidencing its indebtedness or any
other securities issued by it.

     (o)  To engage in any commercial, mercantile, manufacturing,
industrial, trading, mining, petroleum or petroleum products business of
every kind, character or description whatsoever, either by itself or
jointly with others, and to do any and all things incidental to the conduct
of such business.

     (p)  To acquire all or any part of the property and business,
including good will, of any person, corporation or partnership engaged in
any business similar to the objects or purposes of the Corporation, to pay
any appropriate consideration therefor, including cash and securities
issued by the Corporation, to assume in connection therewith any
liabilities or obligations of any such person, corporation or partnership,
and to hold, conduct, use or dispose of the whole or any part of the
property and business, including any good will, so acquired.

     (q)  To promote and exercise all or any part of the foregoing purposes
and powers in any and all parts of the world, and to conduct its business
in all or any of its branches as principal, agent, broker, factor,
contractor, and in any other lawful capacity, either alone or through or in
conjunction with any corporations, associations, partnerships, firms,
trustees, syndicates, individuals, organizations, and other entities in any
part of the world, and, in conducting its business and promoting any of its
purposes, to maintain offices, branches and agencies in any part of the
world, to make and perform any contracts and to do any acts and things, and
to carry on any business, and to exercise any powers and privileges
suitable, convenient, or proper for the conduct, promotion, and attainment
of any of the business and purposes herein specified or which at any time
may be incidental thereto or may appear conducive to or expedient for the
accomplishment of any of such business and purposes and which might be
engaged in or carried on by a corporation or organized under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and to have and exercise all of
the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware upon corporations
incorporated or organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware.

     The foregoing provisions in this Article THIRD shall be construed both
as purposes and powers and each as an independent purpose and power.  The
foregoing enumeration of specific purposes and powers shall not be held to
limit or restrict in any manner the purposes and powers of the corporation,
and the purposes and powers herein specified shall, except when otherwise
provided in this Article THIRD, be in no wise limited or restricted by
reference to, or inference from, the terms of any provision of this or any
other Article of this certificate of incorporation; provided, that the
corporation shall not conduct any business, promote any purpose, or
exercise any power or privilege within or without the State of Delaware
which, under the laws thereof, the corporation may not lawfully conduct,
promote or exercise.

     FOURTH:  The total number of shares of stock which the corporation
shall have authority to issue is six million (6,000,000) shares, of which
five million (5,000,000) shares shall be common stock of the par value of
ten (10) cents, and one million (1,000,000) shares shall be preferred stock
of the par value of one ($1.00) dollar.  The preferred stock shall be
issuable from time to time in one or more series of equal rank with such
different series designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, and shall be subject to redemption at such time or
times and at such price or prices, and shall entitle the holders to receive
dividends at such rates, on such conditions and at such times, and
cumulative or non-cumulative, and shall entitle the holders to such rates
upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the
corporation, and shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of
any class or classes or any other series, at such price or prices or at
such rate or rates of exchange and with such adjustments, as shall be
stated in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such
stock adopted by the Board of Directors.

     FIFTH:  The name and the mailing address of the incorporator are as
follows:

NAME                     MAILING ADDRESS

STANLEY W. NATHANSON,Esq.c/o Silver, Saperstein, Barnett & Solomon,
                         Rm 5010, 60 E. 42 St., New York, N.Y.  10017

     SIXTH:    Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between
this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this
corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of
equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application
in a summary way of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder
thereof or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for
this corporation under the provisions of section 291 of Title 8 of the
Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any
receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions
of section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the
creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of
stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in
such manner as the said court directs.  If a majority in number
representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors,
and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as
the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any
reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or
arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization
shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application has been
made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all
the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case
may be, and also on this corporation.

     SEVENTH:  For the management of the business and for the conduct of
the affairs of the corporation, and in further definition, limitation and
regulation of the powers of the corporation and of its directors and of its
stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further
provided:

          1.  The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of
the corporation, including the election of the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, if any, the President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, and other
principal officers of the corporation, shall be vested in its Board of
Directors.  The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board
of Directors shall be fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the By-Laws.
The phrase "whole Board" and the phrase "total number of directors" shall
be deemed to have the same meaning, to wit, the total number of directors
which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.  No election
of directors need be by written ballot.

          2.  The original By-Laws of the corporation shall be adopted by the
incorporator unless the certificate of incorporation shall name the initial
Board of Directors therein.  Thereafter, the power to make, alter, or
repeal the By-Laws, and to adopt any new By-Law, except a By-Law
classifying directors for election for staggered terms, shall be vested in
the Board of Directors.

          3.  Whenever the corporation shall be authorized to issue only one
class of stock, each outstanding share shall entitle the holder thereof to
notice of, and the right to vote at, any meeting of shareholders.  Whenever
the corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock,
no outstanding share of any class of stock which is denied voting power
under the provisions of the certificate of incorporation shall entitle the
holder thereof to the right to vote at any meeting of stockholders except
as the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of section 242 of the General
Corporation Law shall otherwise require; provided, that no share of any
such class which is otherwise denied voting power shall entitle the holder
thereof to vote upon the increase or decrease in the number of authorized
shares of said class.

          EIGHTH:   The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted
by Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as the same may
be amended and supplemented, indemnify any and all persons whom it shall
have power to indemnify under said section from and against any and all of
the expenses, liabilities or other matters referred to in or covered by
said section, and the indemnification provided for herein shall not be
deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be
entitled under any By-Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested
directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as
to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue
as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent
and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators
of such a person.

          NINTH:  From time to time any of the provisions of this
certificate of incorporation may be amended, altered or repealed, and other
provisions authorized by the law of the State of Delaware at the time in
force may be added or inserted in the manner and at the time prescribed by
said laws, and all rights at any time conferred upon the stockholders of
the corporation by this certificate of incorporation are granted subject to
the provisions of this Article NINTH.

Executed at New York, New York on November 24, 1969.

                    /s/ Stanley W. Nathanson
                         Incorporator

STATE OF NEW YORK   )
                    )
COUNTY OF NEW YORK  )

     BE IT REMEMBERED that, on November 24, 1969, before me, a Notary
Public duly authorized by law to take acknowledgement of deeds, personally
came Stanley W. Nathanson, the incorporator who duly executed the foregoing
certificate of incorporation before me and acknowledged the same to be his
act and deed, and that the facts therein stated are true.

     GIVEN under my hand on November 24, 1969.

                    /s/ Theresa Rosenman
                         Notary Public

                              EXHIBIT (3)(ii)

(AS FILED ON MARCH 1, 1985)
                                     
                                     
                                     
                         CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                     
                                    OF
                                     
                       CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                     

      FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC., a corporation organized and existing  under
and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, DOES
HEREBY CERTIFY:

      FIRST:     That  at a meeting of the Board of Directors  of  FRANKLIN
RESOURCES,  INC.,  resolutions were duly adopted setting forth  a  proposed
amendment   to  the  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  said  corporation,
declaring  said  amendment to be advisable and calling  a  meeting  of  the
stockholders of said corporation for consideration thereof.  The resolution
setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:


RESOLVED,  that  the  Certificate of Incorporation of this  corporation  be
amended  by  changing the Fourth Article thereof so that, as amended,  said
Article shall be and read as follows:

"FOURTH:   The total number of shares of stock which the corporation  shall
have authority to issue is twenty-six million (26,000,000) shares, of which
twenty-five million (25,000,000) shares shall be common stock  of  the  par
value  of  ten cents ($0.10), and one million (1,000,000) shares  shall  be
preferred  stock  of  the par value of one dollar ($1.00).   The  preferred
stock  shall be issuable from time to time in one or more series  of  equal
rank  with  such different series designations, preferences  and  relative,
participating,  optional,  or  other special  rights,  and  qualifications,
limitations, or restrictions thereof, and shall be subject to redemption at
such  time  or  times and at such price or prices, and  shall  entitle  the
holders to receive dividends at such rates, on such conditions, and at such
times,  and cumulative or non-cumulative, and shall entitle the holders  to
such  rates upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets
of,  the  corporation, and shall be convertible into, or exchangeable  for,
shares of any class or classes or any other series, at such price or prices
or at such rate or rates of exchange and with such adjustments, as shall be
stated  in  the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue  of  such
stock adopted by the Board of Directors."


      SECOND:    That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of  its  Board  of
Directors,  the Annual Meeting of the stockholders of said corporation  was
duly  called and held, upon notice in accordance with Section  222  of  the
General  Corporation  Law of the State of Delaware  at  which  meeting  the
necessary  number of shares as required by statute were voted in  favor  of
the amendment.

      THIRD:    That said amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the
provisions  of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the  State  of
Delaware.

      IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF, said FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. has  caused  this
certificate  to  be signed by CHARLES B. JOHNSON, its President  and  Chief
Executive  Officer,  and attested by HARMON E. BURNS, its  Secretary,  this
26th day of February, 1985.


                                   FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.


                                   By: /s/   Charles B. Johnson
                                             President and Chief
                                             Executive Officer




ATTEST:


By: /s/   Harmon E. Burns
          Secretary


                             EXHIBIT (3)(iii)

(AS FILED ON APRIL 1, 1987)
                         CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                     
                                    OF
                                     
                       CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                     
      FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC., a corporation organized and existing  under
and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, DOES
HEREBY CERTIFY:

      FIRST:     That  at a meeting of the Board of Directors  of  FRANKLIN
RESOURCES,  INC.,  resolutions  were duly adopted  setting  forth  proposed
amendments  to  the  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  said  corporation,
declaring  said  amendments to be advisable and calling a  meeting  of  the
stockholders   of   said  corporation  for  consideration   thereof.    The
resolutions setting forth the proposed amendments are as follows:

A.   RESOLVED, that the Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation be
amended  by  changing  Article FOURTH thereof so  that,  as  amended,  said
Article shall be and read as follows:

     "FOURTH:  The total number of shares of stock which the corporation shall
have authority to issue is one hundred one million (101,000,000) shares, of
which one hundred million (100,000,000) shares shall be common stock of the
par value of ten cents ($0.10), and one million (1,000,000) shares shall be
preferred stock of the par value of one ($1.00).  The preferred stock shall
be issuable from time to time in one or more series of equal rank with such
different  series  designations, preferences and  relative,  participating,
optional  or  other  special  rights, and  qualifications,  limitations  or
restrictions  thereof, and shall be subject to redemption at such  time  or
times and at such price or prices, and shall entitle the holders to receive
dividends  at  such  rates,  on such conditions  and  at  such  times,  and
cumulative  or non-cumulative, and shall entitle the holders to such  rates
upon  the  dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets  of,  the
corporation, and shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares  of
any  class  or classes or any other series, at such price or prices  or  at
such  rate  or  rates of exchange and with such adjustments,  as  shall  be
stated  in  the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue  of  such
stock adopted by the Board of Directors."

B.    RESOLVED,  that  a new Article TENTH be added to the  Certificate  of
Incorporation of the corporation, to read as follows:

     "TENTH:  A.    A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable
to  the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach  of
fiduciary  duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any  breach  of
the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii)
for  acts  or  omissions  not  in good faith or which  involve  intentional
misconduct  or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174  of  the
Delaware  General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction  from  which
the  director  derived  any  improper personal benefit.   If  the  Delaware
General  Corporation  Law  is amended after this Certificate  of  Amendment
becomes  effective  to  authorize corporate action further  eliminating  or
limiting  the  personal liability of directors, then  the  liability  of  a
director  of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the  fullest
extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation law, as so amended.

      B.    Any  repeal or modification of the foregoing Section A  by  the
stockholders  of the corporation shall not adversely affect  any  right  or
protection  of a director or the corporation existing at the time  of  such
repeal or modification."

      SECOND:    That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of  its  Board  of
Directors,  the Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of said corporation  was
duly  called and held, upon notice in accordance with Section  222  of  the
General  Corporation  Law of the State of Delaware, at  which  meeting  the
necessary  number of shares as required by statute were voted in  favor  of
the foregoing amendments.

      THIRD:     That said amendments were duly adopted in accordance  with
the  provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the  State
of Delaware.





      IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF, said FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC. has  caused  this
certificate  to  be signed by CHARLES B. JOHNSON, its President  and  Chief
Executive  Officer,  and attested by HARMON E. BURNS, its  secretary,  this
17th day of March 1987.


                                   FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.


                                   By: /s/   Charles B. Johnson
                                             President and Chief
                                             Executive Officer



ATTEST:


By: /s/   Harmon E. Burns
          Secretary


                              EXHIBIT (3)(iv)

(AS FILED ON FEBRUARY 2, 1994)
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                         CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                     
                                    OF
                                     
                       CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

Franklin Resources, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under and by
virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware,

DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

FIRST:  That, at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Franklin Resources,
Inc.,  resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment  of
the  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of said  corporation,  declaring  said
amendment to be advisable and calling a meeting of the stockholders of said
corporation  for consideration thereof.  The resolution setting  forth  the
proposed amendment is as follows:

RESOLVED, that Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation  of  this
corporation be amended, so that, as amended, said Article shall be and read
in its entirety as follows:

"FOURTH:      The  total  number of shares of stock which  the  corporation
shall have authority to issue is five hundred and one million (501,000,000)
shares, of which five hundred million (500,000,000) shares shall be  common
stock  of  the  par value of ten cents ($0.10),and one million  (1,000,000)
shares shall be preferred stock of the par value of one dollar ($1.00). The
preferred  stock shall be issuable from time to time in one or more  series
of  equal  rank  with such different series, designations, preferences  and
relative,    participating,   optional,   or   other   special   rights,and
qualifications,limitations,or restrictions thereof, and shall be subject to
redemption  at  such time or times and at such price or prices,  and  shall
entitle  the holders to receive dividends at such rates, on such conditions
and  at such times, and cumulative or non cumulative, and shall entitle the
holders to such rates upon the dissolution of,  or upon any distribution of
the  assets  of,  the  corporation,  and  shall  be  convertible  into,  or
exchangeable  for, shares of any class or classes or any other  series,  at
such  price  or prices or at such rate or rates of exchange and  with  such
adjustments, as shall be stated in the resolution or resolutions  providing
for the issue of such stock adopted by the Board of Directors.";

FURTHER RESOLVED,  that such amendment to Article Fourth of the Certificate
of Incorporation be submitted to the stockholders for their approval at the
Annual  Meeting of Stockholders and that the Board of Directors  recommends
that  the  stockholders of the Corporation vote in favor of such amendment;
and

FURTHER  RESOLVED,  that  upon  obtaining  approval  of  the  stockholders,
the  proper officers on behalf of the Corporation shall file such amendment
with the appropriate state officials.

SECOND:  That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of its Board of Directors,
a  special meeting of the stockholders of said corporation was duly  called
and  held,upon  notice  in  accordance with  Section  222  of  the  General
Corporation  Law of the State of Delaware, at which meeting  the  necessary
number  of  shares  as  required by statute were  voted  in  favor  of  the
amendment.

THIRD:   That  said  amendment  was duly adopted  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the  State  of
Delaware.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said Franklin Resources, Inc. has caused this
certificate to be signed by Charles B. Johnson, its president, and Harmon
E. Burns, its secretary, this 31st day of January, 1994.


                              By: /s/        Charles B. Johnson
                                             President


                              ATTEST: /s/    Harmon E. Burns
                                             Secretary

                                EXHIBIT 21


                                EXHIBIT 23




                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                                     
                                     
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
of  Franklin  Resources, Inc. on Form S-3 for the issuance of  medium  term
notes,  Form  S-8 for the 1988 Restricted Stock Plan and Form S-8  for  the
Canada  Stock  Option Plan of our report dated December  2,  1994,  on  our
audits  of  the  consolidated financial statements and financial  statement
schedules of Franklin Resources, Inc. as of September 30, 1994 and 1993 and
for  the  years  ended September 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992, which  report  is
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




/s/  Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.




San Francisco, California
December 21, 1994





                               EXHIBIT 99(i)

Report  on  Internal Accounting Control of Transfer Agent  from  Coopers  &
Lybrand L.L.P.

                      INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT'S REPORT
                                     

Board of Directors
Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.

We  have  examined  management's assertion, included in its  representation
letter  dated December 22, 1994, that Franklin/Templeton Investor Services,
Inc.  maintained  an  effective internal control structure,  including  the
appropriate segregation of responsibilities and duties, over the San Mateo,
California  transfer  agent and registrar functions, as  of  September  30,
1994, and that no material inadequacies as defined by Rule 17Ad-13(a)(3) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 existed at such date.

Our  examination was made in accordance with standards established  by  the
American  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants  and,  accordingly,
included a study and evaluation of the internal control structure over  the
San  Mateo,  California transfer agent and registrar functions,  using  the
objectives  set forth in Rule 17Ad-13(a)(3) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of  1934.   Those objectives are to provide reasonable, but  not  absolute,
assurance  that  securities  and funds are safeguarded  against  loss  from
unauthorized  use  or  disposition and that transfer agent  activities  are
performed  promptly  and  accurately.   We  believe  that  our  examination
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Because  of inherent limitations in any internal control structure,  errors
or  irregularities may occur and not be detected.  Also, projections of any
evaluation of the internal control structure  over the transfer  agent  and
registrar  functions to future periods are subject to  the  risk  that  the
internal  control  structure may become inadequate because  of  changes  in
conditions,  or  that  the  degree  of  compliance  with  the  policies  or
procedures may deteriorate.

In  our  opinion,  management's assertion that, as of September  30,  1994,
Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. maintained an effective internal
control    structure,    including   the   appropriate    segregation    of
responsibilities and duties, over the San Mateo, California transfer  agent
and  registrar  functions,  and that no material  inadequacies  existed  as
defined  by Rule 17Ad-13(a)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934,  is
fairly  stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established
by Rule 17Ad-13(a)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

This report is intended solely for the information and use of the board  of
directors and management of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.  and
the  Securities  and Exchange Commission, and should not be  used  for  any
other purpose.


/s/    Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.




San Francisco, California
December 2, 1994
                              EXHIBIT 99(ii)

Report  on  Internal Accounting Control of Transfer Agent from McGladrey  &
Pullen
                                     
                      INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT'S REPORT


To the Board of Directors
Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
San Mateo, California

We  have  examined  management's assertion, included in its  representation
letter  dated  August 31, 1994 that the internal control structure  of  the
TITAN  Mutual  Fund  Shareholder System and Related  Shareholder  Servicing
Functions  processed  by  the Franklin Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
Service  Center in St. Petersburg, Florida (the "Service Center") over  the
transfer of record ownership and the safeguarding of related securities and
funds provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that securities  and
funds  are  safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use  or  disposition
and that transfer agent activities are performed promptly and accurately in
accordance  with  regulations set forth in Rule 17AD-13(a)(3)(iii)  of  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Our  examination was made in accordance with standards established  by  the
American  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants  and,  accordingly,
included obtaining an understanding of the internal control structure  over
transaction  processing, testing, and evaluating the design  and  operating
effectiveness of the internal control structure, and such other  procedures
as  we  considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We  believe  that  our
examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Because  of inherent limitations in any internal control structure,  errors
or  irregularities may occur and not be detected.  Also, projections of any
evaluation of the internal control structure over transaction processing to
future  periods are subject to the risk that the internal control structure
may  become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In  our opinion, management's assertion included in the first paragraph  is
fairly   stated,  in  all  material  respects,  based  upon  the   criteria
established by the Securities and Exchange Commission as set forth in  Rule
17 AD-13(a)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

This report is intended solely for the information and use of the board  of
directors and management of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.  and
the Securities and Exchange Commission and should not be used for any other
purpose.



/s/    McGladrey & Pullen




New York, New York
August 31, 1994
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date:  December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Charles B. Johnson
                               Charles B. Johnson, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:   December 9, 1994    By  /s/  Charles B. Johnson
                               Charles B. Johnson, Principal Executive
                                Officer and Director


Date:   December 9, 1994    By  /s/  Harmon E. Burns
                               Harmon E. Burns, Executive Vice
                                President-Legal and Administrative,
                                Secretary and Director


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Martin L. Flanagan
                                Martin L. Flanagan, Treasurer and
                                Chief Financial Officer


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Philip A. Scatena
                                Philip A. Scatena, Controller


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Judson R. Grosvenor
                                Judson R. Grosvenor, Director


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/ F. Warren Hellman
                                F. Warren Hellman, Director


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
                                Rupert H.Johnson, Jr., Director


Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Harry O. Kline
                                Harry O. Kline, Director

Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Louis E. Woodworth
                                Louis E. Woodworth, Director

Date:   December 9, 1994     By  /s/  Peter M. Sacerdote
                                Peter M. Sacerdote, Director



