
10-K
FORM 10-K



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                   (Mark One)
[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997
                                       OR
                                       [ ]
[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to
                          Commission file number 1-9318

                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                                         13-2670991
(State  or  other   jurisdiction  of                         (I.R.S.   Employer
incorporation  or organization)                             Identification  No.)

777 Mariners Island Blvd., San  Mateo,  CA                          94404
(Address  of  principal  executive  offices)                     (Zip  Code)
Registrant's  telephone  number,  including Area Code         (650) 312-2000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                Name of each  exchange on which  registered
Common Stock, par value
$.10 per share                     New York Stock Exchange, Pacific Exchange
                                   and London Stock Exchange

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common Stock, par value $.10 per share
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to the  filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES X NO ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based upon the closing  price of $95.375 on December 1, 1997 on the
New  York  Stock  Exchange  was  $6,373,105,617.   Calculation  of  holdings  by
non-affiliates  is based upon the  assumption,  for these  purposes  only,  that
executive officers,  directors,  nominees,  Registrant's Profit Sharing Plan and
persons holding 5% or more of Registrant's  Common Stock are affiliates.  Number
of shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding at December 1, 1997:
126,026,610.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Certain portions of the registrant's proxy
statement for its Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  to be held January 20, 1998,
which was filed with the  Commission on December 17, 1997, are  incorporated  by
reference into Part III of this report.






                                 PART I
Item 1. Business

(a)      GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. ("FRI") and its predecessors have been engaged in the
financial  services  business  since  1947.  FRI was  organized  in  Delaware in
November 1969. The term "Company" as used herein,  unless the context  otherwise
requires, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries.
The Company's principal executive and administrative offices are at 777 Mariners
Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California  94404. As of September 30, 1997, the
Company  employed  over 6,400  employees  on a worldwide  basis,  consisting  of
officers,  investment  management,   distribution,   administrative,  sales  and
clerical  support staff. The Company also employs  additional  temporary help as
necessary to meet unusual  requirements.  Management believes that its relations
with its employees are excellent.

On October  30,  1992,  the  Company  and  certain  of its  direct and  indirect
subsidiaries  consummated  the  acquisition  (the  "Templeton  Acquisition")  of
substantially  all of the assets  and  liabilities  of  Templeton,  Galbraith  &
Hansberger  Ltd., a corporation  organized  under the laws of the Cayman Islands
and based in Nassau,  Bahamas ("Old TGH"), which provided diversified investment
management  and  related  services  on a worldwide  basis  directly  and through
subsidiaries  to various U.S.  open-end and closed-end  investment  companies as
well as to a variety of  international  investment  portfolios  and to U.S.  and
international private and institutional  accounts.  Unless the context otherwise
requires,  references  herein to "Templeton" are deemed to refer to the business
operations acquired by the Company in connection with the Templeton  Acquisition
and  "Templeton  funds" or "Templeton  Family of Funds" refers to related funds.
Subsequent to the Templeton Acquisition,  the Company has operated the Templeton
businesses on a unified basis with its other business operations.

In November 1993, the Company  consummated an agreement to manage and advise the
Huntington  Funds of Pasadena,  California,  now called the  Franklin  Templeton
Global Trust.  This open-end  investment  company of several currency  portfolio
series  includes the  Franklin  Templeton  Global  Currency  Fund,  the Franklin
Templeton  Hard Currency Fund and the Franklin  Templeton  High Income  Currency
Fund, which invests in high quality foreign  equivalent money market instruments
in  various  global  currencies,  as  well  as  the  Franklin  Templeton  German
Government Bond Fund, which invests in German government bonds and equivalents.

In November  1996, the Company  through its  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Franklin
Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.  ("FMAI")  acquired (the "Mutual  Acquisition")  certain
assets and liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation ("Heine"), which provided
investment  management  services to various  accounts and investment  companies,
including Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc.
("Mutual Series"). Mutual Series is an open-end investment company which, at the
time of the Mutual  Acquisition,  had five (5) series  funds.  Subsequent to the
Mutual  Acquisition,  the Company has managed  Mutual  Series on a unified basis
with its other  business.  Unless the  context  otherwise  requires,  references
herein to the "Mutual Funds" and the "Mutual  Series" are deemed to refer to the
business  operations  acquired  by the  Company  in  connection  with the Mutual
Acquisition.  See "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of Operation" ("MD&A").

The  purchase  price paid at the  closing of the Mutual  Acquisition  was funded
through a combination of the Company's  available cash,  securities and the sale
of commercial  paper. The base purchase price consisted of $551 million in cash,
including  acquisition  expenses,  and the  delivery of 1.1 million  shares (the
"Shares"), before the effect of the three-for-two stock dividend paid on January
15, 1997 (the "Stock  Dividend"),  of the Company's  Common Stock.  The purchase
price  included the deposit into escrow of $150 million to be invested in shares
of Mutual  Series,  which shares are being  released over a five (5) year period
from the date of the acquisition,  with a minimum $100 million retention for the
full  five  (5)  year  period.  In  addition  to the base  purchase  price,  the
transaction  included a contingent payment ranging from $96.25 million to $192.5
million if certain  agreed upon  growth  targets are met over the five (5) years
following the closing.

For a two-year period following the closing of the Mutual Acquisition, Heine and
its chief executive officer,  Michael F. Price must limit their ownership of the
Company's  common  stock to no more than 4.9% and have  also  agreed to  certain
limitations on the  transferability  of the Shares for this same time period. In
addition, the Shares must be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the
Company's Board of Directors.  The Company has also granted certain registration
rights with respect to the Shares.  Mr. Price and five (5) senior  executives of
Heine entered into employment  agreements  assumed by FMAI upon the consummation
of the transaction.

In November  1996,  the holders of the option  rights  related to the  Company's
subordinated  debentures  (including  entities affiliated with a director of the
Company),  which  were  issued in  connection  with the  Templeton  Acquisition,
exercised their option rights to receive approximately 2.4 million shares of the
Company's common stock in exchange for approximately $75 million of subordinated
debentures. In December 1996, the holders of the subordinated debentures sold to
the Company the remaining  option rights  representing an additional 2.4 million
shares,  and  surrendered  the remaining $75 million of debentures  plus accrued
interest for cash of approximately  $170 million.  This transaction was financed
through the  issuance of $100 million in  medium-term  notes and through cash on
hand. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere herein.

FRI  is  principally  a  parent  company  primarily  engaged,   through  various
subsidiaries,  in  providing  investment  management,  marketing,  distribution,
transfer  agency and other  administrative  services to the open-end  investment
companies of the Franklin Templeton Group and to U.S. and international  managed
and institutional  accounts. The Company also provides investment management and
related services to a number of closed-end investment companies whose shares are
traded  on  various  major  U.S.  and some  international  stock  exchanges.  In
addition, the Company provides investment management, marketing and distribution
services to certain sponsored  investment companies organized in the Grand Duchy
of Luxembourg  (hereinafter referred to as "SICAV Funds"), which are distributed
in  marketplaces  outside of North America and to certain  investment  funds and
portfolios in Canada (hereinafter referred to as "Canadian Funds") as well as to
certain other international  portfolios in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. The
Franklin   Templeton  Group  of  Funds  consists  of  forty-four  (44)  open-end
investment companies with multiple portfolios.

When used in this report, the term "Franklin Group of Funds" refers generally to
the  Franklin  funds  not  acquired  through  either  the  Templeton  or  Mutual
Acquisitions  nor  developed  primarily  as a result of such  acquisitions.  The
Franklin Group of Funds,  the Templeton  Family of Funds,  and the Mutual Series
are  hereinafter  referred to  individually  as a "Fund" or  collectively as the
"Funds",  the "Franklin  Templeton funds",  or the "Franklin  Templeton Group of
Funds".  Unless  specifically noted otherwise,  as used in this report the terms
the "Franklin  Templeton  funds" or the "Franklin  Templeton  Group" include the
Mutual Series. The closed-end investment companies,  the foreign based funds and
the  other  U.S.  and  international  managed  and  institutional  accounts  are
collectively  referred to as the "Other Assets". The Franklin Templeton Group of
Funds along with the Other Assets are collectively  referred to as the "Franklin
Templeton Group".

As of  September  30,  1997,  total  assets  under  management  in the  Franklin
Templeton  Group were $226 billion,  the make-up of which was  approximately  as
follows:  for the open-end investment  companies in the Franklin Templeton Group
(excluding  variable  annuities),  $175.1 billion;  and for all the Other Assets
(including variable annuities), $50.9 billion. This makes the Franklin Templeton
Group one of the largest investment management complexes in the United States.

The mix of assets under management by a large financial services complex such as
the  Franklin  Templeton  Group can be  segregated  by type of  assets,  type of
investment  vehicle,   type  of  investor  or  geographic  location  of  assets.
International and U.S. equity assets under  management,  whether held for growth
potential,  income  potential  or various  combinations  thereof by all types of
investors,  including  institutional and separate accounts on a worldwide basis,
were   approximately   $157.4  billion  at  September  30,  1997  and  represent
approximately  70% of total assets under management.  Fixed-income  assets (both
long and short-term),  including money market fund assets,  held by all types of
investors on a worldwide basis were approximately  $68.6 billion and represented
30% of total assets under management at fiscal year end. Assets under management
for  institutional  accounts,  whether in institutional  mutual funds,  separate
accounts or other types of investment products, were approximately $30.7 billion
or 14% of total assets under  management  at fiscal year end and were  primarily
invested in global and international  equities.  Assets under management by U.S.
based closed-end funds or equivalent foreign funds were $6.6 billion, or 2.9% of
total assets, at September 30, 1997.

The Company,  through certain  subsidiaries,  also provides  advisory  services,
variable  annuity  products,  and sponsors  and manages  public and private real
estate programs.  Other  subsidiaries  offer consumer banking services,  insured
deposits,  dealer auto  loans,  and credit  cards.  The  Company  also  provides
custodial,  trustee and  fiduciary  services to  individual  retirement  account
("IRA") and profit sharing or money  purchase plans and to qualified  retirement
plans and private  trusts.  From time to time, the Company also  participates in
various investment management joint ventures. On a consolidated worldwide basis,
the  Company  provides  U.S.  and  international  individual  and  institutional
investors  with a broad range of  investment  products and services  designed to
meet varying investment objectives, which affords its clients the opportunity to
allocate  their  investment  resources  among  various  alternative   investment
products as changing worldwide economic and market conditions warrant.

 Subsidiaries-Investment Management, Administration, Distribution and
                            Related Services

The Company's  principal  line of business is providing  investment  management,
administration,  distribution  and related  services for the Franklin  Templeton
Group. This business is primarily  conducted through the principal  wholly-owned
direct and indirect subsidiary companies described below. Revenues are generated
primarily  by  subsidiaries  that  provide  advisory  and  management  services.
Revenues are derived  primarily from investment  management fees calculated on a
sliding scale fund-by-fund basis, which generally decline as the level of assets
managed increases.

Franklin Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Advisers,  Inc. ("Advisers") is a California corporation formed in 1985
and is based in San Mateo,  California.  Advisers is registered as an investment
advisor  with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (the "SEC")  under the
Investment  Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers  Act") and is also registered as
an investment advisor in the State of California.  Advisers provides  investment
advisory,  portfolio  management and  administrative  services under  management
agreements  with most of the  Funds in the  Franklin  Group of  Funds.  Advisers
manages  approximately  $83.9 billion,  representing  approximately 37.1% of the
Company's total assets under management,  and generates  approximately  17.4% of
total Company revenues.

Franklin Advisory Services, Inc.

Franklin Advisory  Services,  Inc. ("FASI") is a Delaware  corporation formed in
1996 and is based in Fort Lee, New Jersey.  FASI is  registered as an investment
advisor  with  the SEC  under  the  Advisers  Act and is also  registered  as an
investment advisor in the State of New Jersey. FASI provides investment advisory
and portfolio management services under management agreements with certain funds
in the Franklin Group of Funds.

Templeton Global Advisors Limited.

Templeton Global Advisors Limited ("TGAL") is a Bahamian  corporation located in
Nassau,  Bahamas formed in connection with the Templeton  Acquisition and is the
successor  company to Old TGH. TGAL is registered as an investment  advisor with
the SEC under the Advisers  Act. TGAL provides  investment  management  services
under various  agreements  with certain of the Templeton funds and Other Assets.
TGAL is the  principal  investment  advisor to the  Templeton  funds and manages
approximately $53.6 billion,  representing  approximately 23.7% of the Company's
total assets under management.

Franklin Investment Advisory Services, Inc.

Franklin Investment Advisory Services,  Inc. ("FIASI") is a Delaware corporation
formed in 1996 and is based in Norwalk,  Connecticut.  FIASI is registered as an
investment advisor with the SEC under the Advisers Act.

Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc. ("FMAI") is a Delaware corporation formed in 1996
and is based in Short Hills,  New Jersey.  FMAI is  registered  as an investment
advisor  with  the SEC  under  the  Advisers  Act and is also  registered  as an
investment advisor in the States of Georgia, Texas and New Jersey. FMAI provides
investment management and portfolio management services under various agreements
with Mutual Series.  FMAI is the  investment  manager to the Mutual Series funds
and manages approximately $24.8 billion,  representing  approximately 11% of the
Company's total assets under management.

Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

Franklin Templeton Services,  Inc. ("FTSI") is a Delaware  corporation formed in
1996 and is based in San Mateo,  California.  FTSI provides business  management
services, including fund accounting, securities pricing, trading, compliance and
other related  administrative  activities under various management agreements to
most of the U.S. Franklin Templeton Funds.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.

Templeton  Investment Counsel,  Inc. ("TICI") is a Florida corporation formed in
October 1979. Based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, TICI is the principal investment
advisor to the  majority of the  Franklin  Templeton  managed and  institutional
accounts,  excluding Mutual Series. In addition, it provides investment advisory
portfolio  management services to certain of the Templeton funds and subadvisory
services to certain of the  Franklin  funds.  TICI manages  approximately  $23.5
billion, representing 10.4% of the Company's total assets under management.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd.

Templeton  Asset  Management  Ltd.  ("Templeton  Singapore")  is  a  corporation
organized  under the laws of and based in  Singapore.  It is  registered  as the
foreign  equivalent  of an  investment  advisor in  Singapore  with the Monetary
Authority of Singapore  and is also  registered  with the SEC under the Advisers
Act. A representative office of Templeton Singapore is registered as the foreign
equivalent of an investment advisor in Hong Kong.  Templeton  Singapore provides
investment  advisory  and  related  services  to  certain  Templeton  funds  and
portfolios. Templeton Singapore is principally an investment advisor to emerging
market equity portfolios.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited is a corporation organized
under the laws of,  and is based in,  Hong  Kong.  It was formed in late 1993 to
distribute and service the Company's financial products in Asia.

Templeton Management Limited

Templeton  Management Limited is a Canadian  corporation formed in October 1982,
and is registered in Canada as the foreign  equivalent of an investment  advisor
and a mutual fund dealer with the  Ontario  Securities  Commission.  It provides
investment  advisory,  portfolio  management,  distribution  and  administrative
services under various  management  agreements  with the Canadian Funds and with
private and institutional accounts.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("Distributors") is a New York corporation
formed  in 1947.  It is  registered  with the SEC as a  broker-dealer  and as an
investment  advisor and is a member of the National  Association  of  Securities
Dealers,  Inc. (the "NASD"). As the principal  underwriter of the shares of most
of the Franklin and Templeton  funds, it earns  underwriting  commissions on the
distribution of shares of the Funds.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc.

Templeton/Franklin  Investment Services, Inc. ("TFIS") is a Delaware corporation
formed in October 1987 and is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer  and an
investment advisor.  Its principal business activities include:  (i) through its
Templeton  Portfolio Advisory division,  serving as a sponsor of a comprehensive
fee  (wrap  account)  program,  in which it  provides  investment  advisory  and
broker-dealer  services,  as well as  serving  as  investment  adviser  in other
broker-dealer  wrap  account  programs  and  directly as an adviser for separate
accounts; and (ii) serving as a direct marketing broker-dealer for institutional
investors in Franklin Templeton Group of Funds.

Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. ("FTIS") is a California corporation
formed in 1981 which provides  shareholder  record keeping  services and acts as
transfer agent and  dividend-paying  agent for the Franklin and Templeton funds.
FTIS is  registered  with  the SEC as a  transfer  agent  under  the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934  (the  "Exchange  Act").  FTIS  is  compensated  under  an
agreement with each Franklin and Templeton  open-end mutual fund on the basis of
a fixed  annual  fee per  account,  which  varies  with the Fund and the type of
services being provided, and is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses.

Other  Templeton  Investment  Advisory,   Distribution,   Research  and  Related
Subsidiaries are organized and/or located in California, Florida, Australia, the
Bahamas,  Brazil, France,  Germany,  India, Italy,  Luxembourg,  Poland, Russia,
South Africa and the United Kingdom, and provide investment advisory and related
services to other  subsidiaries  of the Company and to various  U.S. and foreign
portfolios and private and  institutional  accounts.  In addition,  the Company,
through  various  Templeton  subsidiaries,  has  opened or is in the  process of
opening  branch  offices or in some instances  forming  subsidiaries  in various
other international  locations,  including Argentina,  China,  Cyprus,  Hungary,
Japan, Korea, Mauritius, Russia, South Africa, and Vietnam.

Franklin Templeton Trust Company

Franklin  Templeton Trust Company ("FTTC"),  a California  corporation formed in
October 1983, is a trust company  licensed by the California  Superintendent  of
Banks. FTTC serves primarily as custodian for Individual Retirement Accounts and
profit sharing or money purchase plans whose assets are invested in the Franklin
and  Templeton  funds,  and as  trustee  or  fiduciary  of  private  trusts  and
retirement plans.

Templeton Funds Trust Company

Templeton Funds Trust Company ("TFTC"), a Florida corporation formed in December
1985, is a trust company licensed by the Florida Office of the Comptroller. TFTC
serves as trustee of commingled trusts for qualified retirement plans.

Franklin Management, Inc.

Franklin  Management,  Inc.  ("FMI"),  a  California  corporation  organized  in
February 1978, is a registered investment advisor for private accounts. FMI also
provides advisory services to third party broker-dealer wrap fee programs.

Franklin Institutional Services Corporation

Franklin   Institutional   Services   Corporation   ("FISCO")  is  a  California
corporation  organized in August 1991. FISCO is a registered  investment advisor
and provides services for institutional accounts.

Franklin Agency, Inc.

Franklin Agency, Inc. ("Agency") is a California  corporation  organized in
December  1971.  Agency  provides  insurance  agency  services  for the Franklin
Valuemark annuity products.

Templeton Funds Annuity Company

Templeton  Funds Annuity  Company  ("TFAC") is a Florida  corporation  formed in
January  1984  which  offers  variable  annuity  products.  TFAC is  principally
regulated by the Florida Department of Insurance and Florida's Treasurer.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc.

Templeton Worldwide,  Inc. is a Delaware  corporation  organized in July 1992 as
the parent holding company for all of the Templeton companies.

                 Subsidiaries-Other Financial Services

In  addition  to  its  principal  business  activity  of  providing   investment
management and related services,  during all or portions of the fiscal year, the
Company was also  engaged in two (2) other  lines of  business in the  financial
services  marketplace  conducted  through  the  subsidiaries   described  below:
consumer  lending  services and the management of public and private real estate
programs.

Consumer Lending Services

Franklin  Bank (the  "Bank"),  a  98.2%-owned  subsidiary  of the Company,  is a
non-Federal  Reserve member California State chartered bank. The Bank was formed
in 1974 and was acquired by the Company in December 1985.  The Bank,  with total
assets of $117.6  million as of September 30, 1997,  provides  consumer  banking
products and services such as credit  cards,  auto loans,  deposit  accounts and
consumer  loans.  The Bank does not exercise its  commercial  lending  powers in
order to maintain its status as a "non-bank  bank" pursuant to the provisions of
the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA") which permits the Company,
a  "non-banking  company"  prior to CEBA, to remain exempt from the Bank Holding
Company Act under the "grandfathering" provisions of CEBA.

Franklin Capital Corporation

Franklin Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a Utah corporation formed in June 1993
to expand the  Company's  auto  lending  activities.  FCC  conducts its business
primarily in the Western  region of the United States and  originates  its loans
through a network of auto  dealerships  representing a wide variety of makes and
models.  FCC offers  several  different  loan  programs  to finance new and used
vehicles.  FCC also  acquires  credit  card  receivables  from the  Bank.  As of
September  30,  1997,  FCC's  total  assets  included  $154.3  million  of gross
automobile contracts and $63.9 million of gross credit card receivables.

Real Estate Subsidiaries

The  Company's  real estate  related  line of business  is  conducted  primarily
through two (2) principal subsidiary  corporations.  Franklin  Properties,  Inc.
("FPI")  is a  real  estate  investment  and  management  company  organized  in
California in April 1988,  which  managed three (3) publicly  traded real estate
investment  trusts,  until May 7, 1996, at which time two (2) of the real estate
investment  trusts were merged into the third real estate  investment trust, and
renamed Franklin Select Realty Trust,  Inc.  Franklin Select Realty Trust,  Inc.
continues  to be  managed by FPI under an  advisory  agreement  and is  publicly
traded on the American Stock  Exchange.  Property  Resources,  Inc.  ("PRI"),  a
California  corporation  organized  in April 1967 and acquired by the Company in
December  1985,  serves as general  partner,  property  manager  or advisor  for
certain other real estate investment programs.

                         Investment Management

The Franklin  Templeton Group  accommodates a variety of investment  objectives,
including, capital appreciation,  growth and income, income, tax-free income and
stability of principal.  In seeking to achieve such  objectives,  each portfolio
emphasizes different investment  securities.  Portfolios seeking income focus on
taxable and tax-exempt  money market  instruments,  tax-exempt  municipal bonds,
global fixed-income securities, fixed-income debt securities of corporations and
of the United States government and its agencies and  instrumentalities  such as
the Government  National  Mortgage  Association  ("GNMA" or "Ginnie  Mae"),  the
Federal National Mortgage  Association ("Fannie Mae"), and the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac").  Portfolios that seek capital appreciation
invest  primarily in equity  securities in a wide variety of  international  and
U.S.  markets,  some seek broad national market exposure,  while others focus on
narrower  sectors such as precious  metals,  health care,  emerging  technology,
mid-cap companies,  small-cap  companies,  real estate securities and utilities.
Still others focus on investments in particular  emerging  market  countries and
regions. A majority of the assets managed are equity oriented.

In addition to closed-end  funds,  many of which are described  below, the Other
Assets  include  portfolios  managed  for  the  world's  largest   corporations,
endowments, charitable foundations, pension funds, wealthy individuals and other
institutions.  Investment  management  services  for  such  portfolios  focus on
specific client objectives  utilizing the various investment  techniques offered
by the Franklin Templeton Group.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997,  except for the Company's money
market funds, and funds specifically designed for institutional investors, whose
shares are sold  without a sales charge at all  purchase  levels,  shares of the
open-end funds in the Franklin  Templeton  Group of Funds generally were sold at
their  respective  net asset value per share plus a sales  charge,  which varies
depending upon the type of share, the individual fund and the amount  purchased.
In accordance  with certain terms and conditions  described in the  prospectuses
for such Funds,  certain  investors are eligible to purchase shares at net asset
value or at reduced sales  charges,  and investors may generally  exchange their
shares of a fund at net asset value for shares of another  fund in the  Franklin
Templeton  Group when they believe such an  investment  decision is  appropriate
without the payment of additional sales charges.

As of September 30, 1997,  the net asset  holdings of the five (5) largest funds
in the Franklin Templeton Group (some of which are investment companies and some
of which are series of other investment  companies) were Templeton  Foreign Fund
($17.0 billion), Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. ($14.6 billion),
Templeton Growth Fund ($13.9  billion),  Templeton World Fund ($9.6 billion) and
the Franklin Custodian  Funds-U.S.  Government ($9.5 billion).  At September 30,
1997, these five (5) mutual funds  represented,  in the aggregate,  28.5% of all
assets under management in the Franklin Templeton Group.

                        General Fund Description

Set forth in the  tables  below is a brief  description  of the Funds and of the
principal  investments  and  investment  strategies  of such Funds or portfolios
comprising most of the principal  Funds or portfolios in the Franklin  Templeton
Group separated into twenty-three (23) different general categories as follows:

   (i)     Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

   (ii)    Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

   (iii)   Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

   (iv)    Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

   (v)     Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

   (vi)    Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments (Valuemark variable
           annuity)

   (vii)   Franklin Closed-End Funds

   (viii)  Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

   (ix)    Franklin Templeton International Currency Funds

   (x)     Templeton Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

   (xi)    Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from Global Portfolios

   (xii)   Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from U.S. Portfolios

   (xiii)  Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income from Global
           Portfolios

   (xiv)   Templeton Funds Seeking High Total Return from Global
           Portfolios

   (xv)    Templeton Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

   (xvi)   Templeton Contractual Plans

   (xvii)  Templeton SICAV Funds

   (xviii) Templeton Canadian Funds

   (xix)   Templeton Closed-End Funds

   (xx)    Templeton Funds for Institutional Investors

   (xxi)   Representative Templeton International Portfolios

   (xxii)  Mutual Series Funds

   (xxiii) Asset Allocation Funds

Recent Fund Introductions and Changes

The Mutual  Series  team,  known for its  value-driven  approach to U.S.  equity
investing,  joined the Franklin  Templeton  organization  in November 1996. This
addition  brought four (4)  established  and one (1) newly created series to the
Franklin  Templeton Funds. A sixth series,  Mutual Financial  Services Fund, was
added in August 1997.

In December 1996, a new investment  company,  Franklin  Templeton Fund Allocator
Series,  consisting  of three (3)  series  that  invest in a  selected  group of
Franklin Templeton Funds, was introduced.  The Franklin Discovery  Biotechnology
Fund was added to the Franklin  Strategic  Series in September 1997.  During the
fiscal year,  four (4) funds were  liquidated  and two (2) Templeton  funds were
merged into two (2) Franklin funds.

Effective January 2, 1997,  twenty-five (25) Franklin  Templeton funds offered a
new class of shares,  called  Advisor  Class Shares,  available  without a sales
charge  generally for employees and for large  investments ($5 million or more).
During fiscal 1997,  seventy-six (76) Franklin  Templeton funds offered multiple
classes of shares in response to investor demand for varying load structures. Of
these  funds,  forty-five  (45) offered  Class I and Class II shares,  seven (7)
offered Class I shares and Advisor Class Shares,  and  twenty-four  (24) offered
Class I, Class II and Advisor Class Shares (or the Mutual  Series  equivalent to
Advisor Class Shares, called Z Class Shares).


(i)   Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin California       09/03/85     Seeks double tax-free income (free
Tax-Exempt Money Fund                  from federal and state personal income
                                       taxes) by investing in short-term
                                       California municipal securities.

Franklin Federal Money    05/13/80     Seeks high current income by investing
Fund                                   in short-term instruments backed by
                                       U.S. government securities.

Franklin Money  Fund      05/01/76     Seeks   capital
                                       preservation,  liquidity and dividends by
                                       investing in short-term securities (money
                                       market instruments).

Franklin New York         09/03/85     Seeks triple tax-free income (free
Tax-Exempt Money Fund                  from federal, N.Y. state and N.Y. city
                                       taxes) by investing in short-term New
                                       York municipal securities.

Franklin Tax-Exempt       02/18/82     Seeks income free from federal taxes
Money Fund                             by investing in short-term municipal
                                       securities.

Franklin Templeton Money  05/01/95     Seeks capital preservation, liquidity
Fund II                                and dividends, by investing in
                                       short-term securities.  Open only to
                                       shareholders exchanging out of Class
                                       II shares in other Franklin Templeton
                                       Funds.

(ii)   Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Adjustable Rate  12/26/91     Seeks high current income and
Securities Fund                        increased price stability by investing
                                       in Double A rated mortgage-backed
                                       securities: adjustable rate mortgages
                                       ("ARMs") created by private issuers as
                                       well as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and
                                       Freddie Mac.

Franklin Adjustable U.S.  10/20/87     Seeks income with lower volatility of
Government Securities                  principal by investing in government
Fund                                   or government agency guaranteed
                                       adjustable rate mortgage-backed
                                       securities.

Franklin Corporate        01/14/87     Seeks high after-tax income for
Qualified Dividend Fund                corporations by investing in preferred
                                       securities  and by maximizing  the amount
                                       of  dividend   income  it  receives  that
                                       qualifies   for  the   dividends-received
                                       deduction.

Franklin Global           03/15/88     Seeks high current income by investing
Government Income Fund                 primarily in fixed-income securities
                                       issued by both U.S. and foreign
                                       governments.

Franklin Investment       01/14/87     Seeks high current income by investing
Grade Income Fund                      in debt securities, most of which will
                                       be  intermediate  term  investment  grade
                                       issues  and  dividend  paying  common and
                                       preferred stocks.

Franklin                  04/15/87     Seeks income and relative stability of
Short-Intermediate U.S.                principal by investing in less
Government Securities                  volatile, shorter term securities of
Fund                                   U.S. government securities carrying
                                       the full faith and credit guarantee of
                                       the U.S. government.

Franklin Templeton        12/31/92     Seeks total return by investing in a
German Government Bond                 managed portfolio of German government
Fund                                   bonds.

Franklin's AGE High       12/31/69     Seeks high current income by investing
Income Fund                            in high yielding lower rated corporate
                                       bonds.

U.S. Government           05/31/70     Seeks high current income by investing
Securities Series (a                   in a portfolio limited to securities
series of Franklin                     that are obligations of the U.S.
Custodian Funds, Inc.)                 government or its instrumentalities
                                       (Ginnie Mae securities).

(iii)   Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

Federal Tax-Free Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Federal          09/21/92     Seeks high current income by investing
Intermediate-Term                      in nationally diversified municipal
Tax-Free Income Fund                   bonds with an average maturity of
                                       three (3) to ten (10) years.

Franklin Federal          10/07/83     Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund                   investing in nationally diversified,
                                       investment quality municipal bonds.

Franklin High Yield       03/18/86     Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund                   investing in nationally diversified,
                                       high yield, medium and lower rated
                                       municipal bonds.

Franklin Insured          04/01/85     Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund                   investing in nationally diversified,
                                       insured municipal bonds.

Franklin Puerto Rico      08/03/85     Seeks to provide a maximum level of
Tax-Free Income Fund                   income exempt from federal income tax
                                       and the personal income taxes of the
                                       majority of the states by investing in
                                       municipal securities. For U.S.
                                       citizens and residents.

State Tax-Free Funds

The Company manages insured state tax-free funds, established from 1985 to 1996,
in  the  states  of  Arizona,  California,  Florida,  Massachusetts,   Michigan,
Minnesota,  New York and Ohio. The principal  investments  and strategy of these
funds are the  purchase  of insured  municipal  bonds  exempt  from  federal and
specified state personal income taxes providing an investment vehicle for double
tax-free income from long-term municipal  securities.  In addition,  the Company
manages  twenty-seven  (27) non-insured  state tax-free income funds established
from 1977 to 1996 providing  double  tax-free  income from  long-term  municipal
securities to residents of twenty-four (24) states.


(iv)   Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

Name of                   Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
Fund                      Date

Franklin Asset            12/05/51     Seeks total return by investing in
Allocation Fund                        common stocks, investment grade
                                       corporate and U.S. government bonds,
                                       short-term money market instruments,
                                       securities of foreign issuers and real
                                       estate securities.

Franklin Balance Sheet    04/02/90     Seeks high total return by investing
Investment Fund                        in common and preferred stocks,
                                       secured   or   unsecured    bonds,    and
                                       commercial  paper or  notes,  which  have
                                       per-share  current market values believed
                                       to be below their net asset or book
                                       values.

Franklin Convertible      04/15/87     Seeks to maximize total return by
Securities Fund                        investing in convertible bonds and
                                       convertible preferred stock.

Franklin Equity Income    03/15/88     Seeks capital appreciation and high
Fund                                   current dividend income by investing
                                       in high yielding common stocks for
                                       greater price stability.

Franklin Global           07/02/92     Seeks total return by investing in
Utilities Fund                         equity and debt securities issued by
                                       foreign and U.S. utilities companies.

Franklin MicroCap Value   12/12/95     Seeks high total return by investing
Fund                                   primarily in securities of companies
                                       with  market  capitalization  under  $100
                                       million at the time of purchase and which
                                       are  believed  to be  undervalued  in the
                                       marketplace.

Franklin Natural          06/05/95     Seeks high total return by investing
Resources Fund                         primarily in stocks of companies that
                                       own, produce, refine, process and
                                       market natural resources.

Franklin Rising           04/02/90     Seeks capital appreciation by
Dividends Fund                         investing in stocks with consistent,
                                       substantial dividend increases for
                                       capital growth.

Franklin Strategic        05/24/94     Seeks high current income and capital
Income Fund                            appreciation, by investing in U.S. and
                                       foreign fixed-income securities.

Franklin Value Fund       03/11/96     Seeks total return by
                                       investing  in equity and debt  securities
                                       of   companies   worldwide,   which   are
                                       believed to be undervalued in the
                                       marketplace.

Income Series (a series   08/31/48     Seeks to maximize income by investing
of Franklin Custodian                  in stocks and bonds, including foreign
Funds, Inc.)                           and high yield, lower rated
                                       securities, selected with particular
                                       consideration for their income
                                       producing potential.

Utilities Series (a       09/30/48     Seeks capital appreciation and current
series of Franklin                     income by investing in utility
Custodian Funds, Inc.)                 companies located in high growth areas.

(v)   Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

DynaTech Series (a        01/01/68     Seeks capital appreciation by
series of Franklin                     investing in the volatile stocks of
Custodian Funds, Inc.)                 companies engaged in dramatic
                                       break-through areas such as medicine,
                                       telecommunications and electronics or who
                                       have proprietary advantages in their
                                       field.

Franklin Blue Chip Fund  05/28/96      Seeks  capital
                                       appreciation  by investing in  securities
                                       of well-established, large capitalization
                                       companies  ("blue chip companies") with a
                                       long record of revenue growth and
                                       profitability.

Franklin California       10/30/91     Seeks capital appreciation by
Growth Fund                            investing primarily in growth stocks
                                       or securities of companies
                                       headquartered in or conducting a
                                       majority of operations in California.

Franklin Equity  Fund    01/01/33      Seeks   capital
                                       appreciation   and   current   income  by
                                       investing  primarily in common  stocks of
                                       seasoned  companies  with low  prices  in
                                       relation to earnings growth.

Franklin Global Health    02/14/92     Seeks capital appreciation by
Care Fund                              investing primarily in equity
                                       securities   of  health  care   companies
                                       worldwide   with   potential   for  above
                                       average growth.

Franklin Gold Fund        05/19/69     Seeks   capital
                                       appreciation   and   current   income  by
                                       investing  in   securities  of  companies
                                       engaged in mining,  processing or dealing
                                       in gold or other precious metals.

Franklin MidCap Growth    06/01/96     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing in equity securities of
                                       medium capitalization companies
                                       believed to be positioned for rapid
                                       growth.

Franklin Real Estate      01/03/94     Seeks to maximize total return by
Securities Fund                        investing primarily in the equity
                                       securities of companies operating in
                                       the real estate industry.

Franklin Small Cap        02/14/92     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Growth Fund                            investing primarily in equity
                                       securities of small capitalization
                                       growth companies.

Growth Series (a series   03/31/48     Seeks capital appreciation by
of Franklin Custodian                  investing in well-known companies with
Funds, Inc.)                           demonstrated growth characteristics.

Franklin Biotechnology    09/15/97     Seeks capital appreciation by
Discovery Fund                         investing in securities of
                                       biotechnology companies and discovery
                                       research firms located in the U.S. and
                                       other countries.

(vi)   Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

Franklin Valuemark Funds is an open-end management  investment company currently
consisting of twenty-three (23) separate series or portfolios which offer a wide
range of investment objectives, strategies, and risks. Shares are currently sold
only to separate accounts of the Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America
and its affiliates to fund the benefits  under variable life insurance  policies
and variable  annuity  contracts.  Products  presently  offered  include two (2)
flexible premium  deferred  variable  annuities  ("Valuemark II" in New York and
"Valuemark III" in all other states),  an immediate variable annuity ("Valuemark
Income Plus"),  single  premium  variable life  insurance  ("Franklin  Valuemark
Life"),  and  flexible  premium  variable  life  insurance  ("ValueLife").   The
portfolios are managed by Advisers,  Franklin Advisory Services,  Inc., Franklin
Mutual Advisers, Inc., TICI, TGAL, and Templeton Asia. The investment objectives
and  policies of most of the  portfolios  are similar to those of  corresponding
Franklin  and  Templeton   funds,   although   differences  in  portfolio  size,
investments  held, and insurance and expense related  differences will cause the
performance of the Valuemark portfolio to differ.




(vii)   Franklin Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Multi-Income     10/24/89     Seeks high current income by investing
Trust (listed on the                   primarily in high yielding,
NYSE)                                  fixed-income corporate securities as
                                       well as dividend-paying stocks of
                                       companies engaged in the public
                                       utilities industry.

Franklin Universal Trust  09/23/88     Seeks high current income by investing
(listed on the NYSE)                   in fixed-income debt securities and
                                       dividend paying stocks and securities
                                       of precious metals and natural
                                       resources companies.

Principal Maturity Trust  01/19/89     Seeks to return investors' original
(listed on the NYSE)                   capital of $10 per share on or before
                                       May  31,  2001,   while   providing  high
                                       monthly    income   by    investing    in
                                       mortgage-backed  securities,  zero coupon
                                       securities and high income producing debt
                                       securities.

(viii)   Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Adjustable Rate           11/05/91     Seeks high current income by investing
Securities Portfolio                   in mortgage-backed securities (ARMs).
(sold only to other
investment companies)

Franklin Cash Reserves    07/01/94     Seeks high current income by investing
Fund                                   in U.S. and foreign short-term
                                       securities.

Franklin Institutional    01/02/92     Seeks high current income by investing
Adjustable Rate                        in a portfolio of mortgage-backed
Securities Fund                        securities, pooled adjustable rate
                                       mortgage securities.

Franklin Institutional    11/01/91     Seeks high current income and
Adjustable U.S.                        increased price stability by investing
Government Securities                  in a portfolio of adjustable U.S.
Fund                                   government or guaranteed agency
                                       mortgage-backed securities, (ARMs
                                       created by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and
                                       Freddie Mac).

Franklin Strategic        02/01/93     Seeks a high level of total return by
Mortgage Portfolio                     investing primarily in mortgage-backed
                                       securities, pooled mortgages issued or
                                       guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or
                                       Freddie Mac.

Franklin U. S.            02/08/94     Seeks high current income consistent
Government Agency Money                with capital preservation and
Market Fund                            liquidity by investing in short-term
                                       instruments backed by U.S. government
                                       securities.

Franklin U.S. Government  01/19/88     Seeks high current income consistent
Securities Money Market                with capital preservation and
Portfolio                              liquidity by investing in short-term
                                       instruments backed by U.S. government
                                       securities.

Franklin U.S. Treasury    08/20/91     Seeks high current income consistent
Money Market Portfolio                 with capital preservation and
                                       liquidity by investing in short-term
                                       U.S. Treasury obligations.

Money  Market  Portfolio  07/17/85     Seeks  high
                                       current  income  consistent  with capital
                                       preservation  and  liquidity by investing
                                       all of its assets in money market
                                       instruments.

The Money Market          07/28/92     Seeks high current income  consistent
                                       Portfolio (sold only to with capital
                                       preservation and other  investment
                                       liquidity by investing all of its 
                                       companies) assets in money market
                                       instruments.

The U.S. Government       07/28/92     Seeks high current income consistent
Securities Money Market                with capital preservation and
Portfolio (sold only to                liquidity by investing in short-term
other investment                       instruments backed by U.S. government
companies)                             securities.

U.S. Government           05/20/91     Seeks high current income and
Adjustable Rate Mortgage               increased price stability by investing
Portfolio (sold only to                in mortgage-backed securities, (ARMs
other investment                       created by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and
companies)                             Freddie Mac).

(ix)   Franklin Templeton International Currency Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Templeton        06/30/86     Seeks to maximize total return, by
Global Currency Fund                   investing in interest- earning money
                                       market instruments denominated in three
                                       (3) or more of sixteen (16) major world
                                       currencies.

Franklin Templeton Hard   11/17/89     Seeks to protect against U.S. dollar
Currency Fund                          depreciation by investing in
                                       high-quality   money  market  instruments
                                       denominated  in three  (3) or more of the
                                       five  (5)  major   currencies  of  lowest
                                       inflation countries and the Swiss Franc.

Franklin Templeton High   11/17/89     Seeks current income higher than that
Income Currency Fund                   of U.S. dollar money market
                                       instruments      by      investing     in
                                       interest-bearing money market instruments
                                       denominated   in  Major   and   Non-Major
                                       Currencies.



(x)   Templeton Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Money Fund      10/2/87      Seeks current income, stability of
                          Merged into  principal and liquidity by investing
                          Franklin     in high  quality  money market
                          Money Fund   instruments  with maturities not
                          on 12/31/96  exceeding 397  days, consisting on
                                       primarily  of short-term U.S.
                                       government securities,  bank certificates
                                       of  deposit,   time  deposits,   bankers'
                                       acceptances,    commercial    paper   and
                                       repurchase agreements.


(xi)   Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from Global Portfolios

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Templeton Japan  07/28/94     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing primarily in the equity
                                       securities of companies domiciled in
                                       Japan and traded in Japanese
                                       securities markets.

Templeton Developing      10/17/91     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Markets Trust                          by investing primarily in equity
                                       securities of issuers in countries
                                       with developing markets.

Templeton Foreign  Fund   10/05/82     Seeks  long-term
                                       capital growth by investing in stocks and
                                       debt   obligations   of   companies   and
                                       governments outside the United States.

Templeton Foreign         09/20/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Smaller Companies Fund                 investing in a diverse portfolio of
                                       equity  securities  that trade on markets
                                       in   countries   other  than  the  United
                                       States.

Templeton Global          03/14/94     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Infrastructure Fund                    investing in securities of U.S. and
                                       foreign  companies  that are  principally
                                       engaged in or related to the development,
                                       operation   or   rehabilitation   of  the
                                       physical  and social  infrastructures  of
                                       various nations throughout the world.

Templeton Global          02/28/90     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Opportunities Trust                    investing in securities issued by
                                       companies and governments of any
                                       nation.

Templeton Greater         05/08/95     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
European Fund                          by investing primarily in equity
                                       securities of companies Western,
                                       Central and Eastern Europe and in
                                       Russia.

Templeton Growth  Fund   11/29/54      Seeks  long-term capital growth by
                                       investing in stocks and bonds issued
                                       by companies and governments of any 
                                       nation.

Templeton Latin America   05/08/95     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Fund                                   by investing primarily in equity
                                       securities and debt obligations of
                                       issuers in Latin American countries.

Templeton Pacific Growth  09/20/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing primarily in equity
                                       securities that trade on markets in
                                       the Pacific Rim.

Templeton Global Real     09/18/89     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Estate Fund                            investing in securities of U.S. and
                                       foreign companies engaged in or
                                       related to the real estate industry.

Templeton Global Smaller  06/01/81     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Companies Fund, Inc.                   investing in common and preferred
                                       stocks, rights and warrants of
                                       companies of various nations
                                       throughout the world.

Templeton World  Fund     01/17/78     Seeks   long-term
                                       capital growth by investing in stocks and
                                       debt obligations of foreign and U.S.
                                       companies.

(xii)   Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth From U.S. Portfolios

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton American        03/27/91     Seeks long-term total return by
Trust, Inc.                            investing no less than 65% of assets
                                       in stocks and debt obligations of U.S.
                                       companies and the U.S. government.

(xiii)   Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income from Global Portfolios

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Americas        06/27/94     Seeks high current income, with total
Government Securities                  return as a secondary objective, by
Fund                                   investing primarily in debt securities
                                       issued  or  guaranteed  by   governments,
                                       government      agencies,       political
                                       subdivisions,    and   other   government
                                       entities of  countries  located in North,
                                       South  and   Central   America   and  the
                                       surrounding waters.

Templeton Global Bond     09/24/86     Seeks current income by investing
Fund (formerly Templeton               primarily in debt securities,
Income Fund)                           preferred stock, common stocks which
                                       pay   dividends   and  income   producing
                                       securities  convertible into common stock
                                       of companies,  governments and government
                                       agencies of various nations throughout
                                       the world.

(xiv)   Templeton Funds Seeking High Total Return from Global Portfolios

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Growth and      03/14/94     Seeks high total return by investing
Income Fund (formerly                  primarily in equity and debt
Templeton Global Rising                securities of U.S. and foreign
Dividends Fund)                        companies.

(xv)   Templeton Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Asset           08/31/88     Seeks a high level of total return by
Allocation Fund                        investing in stocks of companies in
                                       any nation, debt obligations of
                                       companies and governments of any
                                       nation, and in money market
                                       instruments.

Templeton Bond Fund       08/31/88     Seeks high current income by investing
                                       primarily in debt securities of
                                       companies, governments and government
                                       agencies of various nations throughout
                                       the world, and in debt securities
                                       which are convertible into common
                                       stock of such companies.

Templeton International   05/01/92     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing in stocks and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments outside the United States.

Templeton Money Market    08/31/88     Seeks current income, stability of
Fund                                   principal and liquidity by investing
                                       in   money   market    instruments   with
                                       maturities   not   exceeding   397  days,
                                       consisting  primarily of short-term  U.S.
                                       government  securities,  certificates  of
                                       deposit,    time    deposits,    bankers'
                                       acceptances,    commercial    paper   and
                                       repurchase agreements.

Templeton Stock Fund      08/31/88     Seeks capital growth
                                       by investing  primarily in common  stocks
                                       issued by companies,  large and small, in
                                       various nations throughout the world.

Templeton Variable        02/16/88     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Annuity Fund                           investing primarily in stocks and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments of any nation, including
                                       the United States.

Mutual Shares             05/01/97     Seeks capital appreciation by
Investments Fund                       investing in U.S. equity securities
                                       trading at prices below their intrinsic
                                       values, in restructuring investments and
                                       in foreign equity and debt securities.

Franklin Growth           05/01/97     Seeks capital appreciation by
Investments Fund                       investing in equities and convertible
                                       securities issued by U.S.
                                       corporations, including stocks of
                                       small capitalization companies.

Mutual Discovery          05/01/97     Seeks capital appreciation by
Investments Fund                       investing in U.S. and foreign equity
                                       securities,   including  those  of  small
                                       capitalization  companies,  in
                                       restructuring  investments  and  debt
                                       securities.

(xvi)   Templeton Contractual Plans

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Capital         03/01/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Accumulator Fund, Inc.                 investing in stocks and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments of any nation.

(xvii)   Templeton SICAV Funds

Templeton Global Strategy (SICAV)

Equity Funds (denominated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted)

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Deutschmark     04/26/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Global Growth Fund                     investing mainly in shares of
                                       companies of any size found in any
                                       nation (denominated in Deutschmarks).

Templeton Emerging        02/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Markets Fund                           investing in the shares and debt
                                       obligations of corporations and
                                       governments of developing or emerging
                                       nations.

Templeton European  Fund  04/17/91     Seeks  long-term
                                       capital  growth  by  investing  mainly in
                                       shares of companies of all sizes based in
                                       European countries (denominated in Swiss
                                       francs).

Templeton Far East Fund   06/30/91     Seeks  long-term
                                       capital  growth  by  investing  mainly in
                                       shares of  companies  of all sizes  which
                                       are based in or which derive  significant
                                       profits from the Far East.

Templeton Global Growth   02/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing primarily in the shares of
                                       companies of any size found in any
                                       nation.

Templeton Pan American    02/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Fund                                   investing primarily in shares of
                                       companies of all sizes based in the
                                       North or South American continents.

Templeton Smaller         07/08/91     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Companies Fund                         investing primarily in shares of
                                       companies with a market capitalization of
                                       less than $1 billion found in any nation.

Fixed Income Funds (denominated in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise noted)

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Deutschmark     02/28/91     Seeks to maximize total investment
Global Bond Fund                       return by investing in a wide variety
                                       of fixed-interest securities, including
                                       those issued by supranational bodies such
                                       as  The  World   Bank   (denominated   in
                                       Deutschmarks).

Templeton Emerging        07/05/91     Seeks to maximize total investment
Markets Fixed Income Fund              return by investing primarily in
                                       dollar and non-dollar denominated debt
                                       obligations of emerging markets.

Templeton Global Income   02/28/91     Seeks to maximize current income by
Fund                                   investing primarily in fixed-interest
                                       securities of governments and
                                       companies worldwide.

Templeton Haven Fund      07/08/91     Seeks to maintain a
                                       stable   share  price  by   investing  in
                                       short-term high quality transferable debt
                                       securities (denominated in Swiss francs).

Templeton U.S.            02/28/91     Seeks security of capital and income
Government Fund                        by investing in bonds issued by the
                                       U.S. government and its agencies.

Templeton Worldwide Investments SICAV


Growth Portfolio          08/21/89     Seeks   long  term
                                       capital  growth by investing in all types
                                       of  securities  issued  by  companies  or
                                       governments of any nation.

Income Portfolio          08/21/89     Seeks high current income and relative
                                       stability of net asset value by
                                       investing in high quality money market
                                       instruments and debt securities with
                                       remaining maturities in excess of two
                                       (2) years.

(xviii)   Templeton Canadian Funds

Non-Institutional Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Balanced Fund   04/07/83     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
                                       by investing primarily in a
                                       combination of Canadian common and
                                       preferred shares, bonds, and
                                       debentures; managed to comply with
                                       eligibility requirements under
                                       Canadian law regarding retirement and
                                       other tax deferred plans.

Templeton Canadian Asset  9/14/94      Seeks high level of total return by
Allocation Fund                        investing primarily in Canadian
                                       shares,  debt  obligations and short-term
                                       instruments;   managed  to  comply   with
                                       eligibility  requirements  under Canadian
                                       law   regarding   retirement   and  other
                                       tax-deferred plans.

Templeton Canadian Bond   01/02/90     Seeks high current income and capital
Fund                                   appreciation by investing primarily in
                                       publicly traded debt securities issued
                                       or guaranteed by Canadian governments
                                       or their agencies, or issued by
                                       Canadian municipalities or
                                       corporations.

Templeton Canadian Stock  01/03/89     Seeks capital appreciation by
Fund                                   investing in a diversified portfolio
                                       of Canadian equity  securities  primarily
                                       managed   to  comply   with   eligibility
                                       requirements    of   the   Canadian   law
                                       regarding   retirement   and   other  tax
                                       deferred plans.

Templeton Emerging        09/20/91     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Markets Fund                           by investing primarily in emerging
                                       country equity securities.

Templeton Global          9/14/94      Seeks high level of total return by
Balanced Fund                          investing in shares, debt obligations
                                       and short-term instruments of
                                       companies and governments of any
                                       nation, including Canada and the
                                       United States.

Templeton Global Bond     06/07/88     Seeks high current income by investing
Fund                                   primarily in a portfolio of fixed
                                       income securities of issuers
                                       throughout the world.

Templeton Global Smaller  01/03/89     Seeks capital appreciation by
Companies Fund                         investing primarily in equity
                                       securities of emerging growth
                                       companies throughout the world.

Templeton Growth Fund,    09/01/54     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Ltd.                                   investing in stock and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments of any nation.

Templeton International   09/14/94     Seeks high level of total return by
Balanced Fund                          investing in shares, debt obligations
                                       and short-term instruments of companies
                                       and governments of any nation other than
                                       Canada and the United States.

Templeton International   01/03/89     Seeks long-term total return by
Stock Fund                             investing in shares and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments outside of Canada and the
                                       United States.

Templeton Treasury Bill   02/29/88     Seeks a high level of current income
Fund                                   consistent with preservation of
                                       capital and  liquidity  by  investing  in
                                       Canadian   government   or  agency   debt
                                       obligations  and high quality  short-term
                                       money market instruments.

Funds for Institutional
Investors

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Global Equity   07/06/90     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Trust (non-taxable)                    by investing in stocks and bonds
                                       issued by companies and governments of
                                       any nation.

Templeton International   07/06/90     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Equity Trust                           by investing in stocks and bonds
(non-taxable)                          issued by companies and governments
                                       outside of Canada and the United
                                       States.

Templeton International   07/06/90     Seeks long-term total return by
Stock Trust (taxable)                  investing in stocks and bonds issued
                                       by companies and governments outside
                                       of Canada and the United States.

Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Emerging        06/21/94     Seeks long-term capital appreciation,
Markets Appreciation                   by investing in equity securities and
Fund (listed on the                    debt obligations of issuers in
Toronto Stock Exchange                 emerging market countries.
and Montreal Stock
Exchange)

(xix)   Templeton Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton China World     09/09/93     Seeks long-term capital appreciation,
Fund, Inc. (listed on                  by investing primarily in equity
the NYSE)                              securities of companies organized
                                       under  the  laws of or  with a  principal
                                       office in the People's  Republic of China
                                       ("PRC"), Hong Kong or Taiwan collectively
                                       "Greater China",  for which the principal
                                       trading market is in Greater  China,  and
                                       which   derive  at  least  50%  of  their
                                       revenues  from goods or services  sold or
                                       produced  in,  or  have at  least  50% of
                                       their assets in, the PRC.

Templeton Dragon Fund,   09/21/94      Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Inc. (listed on the                    by investing at least 45% of its total
NYSE and Osaka                         assets in the equity securities of
Securities Exchange)                   companies (i) organized under the laws
                                       of, or with a  principal  office  in, the
                                       PRC  or  Hong  Kong,   or  the  principal
                                       business    activities   of   which   are
                                       conducted  in China  or Hong  Kong or for
                                       which  the  principal  equity  securities
                                       trading  market is in China or Hong Kong,
                                       and (ii)  that  derive  at  least  50% of
                                       their  revenues  from  goods or  services
                                       sold or produced, or have at least 50% of
                                       their assets in China or Hong Kong.

Templeton Emerging       04/29/94      Seeks capital appreciation by
Markets Appreciation                   investing substantially all of its
Fund, Inc. (listed on                  assets in a portfolio of equity
the NYSE)                              securities and debt obligations of
                                       issuers in emerging market countries.

Templeton Emerging        02/26/87     Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Markets Fund, Inc.                     by investing primarily in emerging
(listed on the NYSE and                markets equity securities.
Pacific Exchange "PE")

Templeton Emerging        09/23/93     Seeks high current income, with a
Markets Income Fund,                   secondary investment objective of
Inc. (listed on the NYSE)              capital appreciation, by investing
                                       primarily in a portfolio of high yielding
                                       debt    obligations   of   sovereign   or
                                       sovereign-related  entities  and  private
                                       sector companies in emerging market
                                       countries.

Templeton Global          11/22/88     Seeks high current income consistent
Governments Income Trust               with the preservation of capital
(listed on the NYSE)                   achieved by investing at least 65% of
                                       its  total  assets  in  debt   securities
                                       issued  or  guaranteed  by   governments,
                                       government     agencies     supranational
                                       entities,   political   subdivisions  and
                                       other  government   entities  of  various
                                       nations throughout the world.

Templeton Global Income   03/17/88     Seeks high current income, with a
Fund, Inc. (listed on                  secondary investment objective of
the NYSE and PE)                       capital appreciation, by investing
                                       primarily in a portfolio of
                                       fixed-income securities (including
                                       debt securities and preferred stock)
                                       of U.S. and foreign issuers.

Templeton Global          05/23/90     Seeks high level of total return
Utilities, Inc. (listed   Merged into  (income plus capital
on the AMEX and the       Franklin     appreciation),without undue risk, by
Midwest Stock Exchange)   Global       investing at least 65% of its total
                          Utilities    assets in equity and debt securities
                          03/29/96     issued by U.S. and foreign companies
                                       in the utility industries.

Templeton Russia Fund,   06/15/95      Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Inc. (listed on the                    by investing primarily in equity
NYSE)                                  securities of Russian companies.

Templeton Vietnam        09/15/94      Seeks long-term capital appreciation
Opportunities Fund,                    by investing in the equity securities
Inc.  (listed on the                   of Vietnam companies.
NYSE)







(xx)   Templeton Funds for Institutional Investors

Name of Fund              Inception    Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Templeton Emerging        05/03/93     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Markets Series                         investing in securities of issuers of
                                       countries having emerging markets.

Templeton Foreign Equity  10/18/90     Seeks long-term capital growth by
Series                                 investing in stocks and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments outside the United States.

Templeton Growth Series   05/03/93     Seeks  long-term
                                       capital growth by investing in stocks and
                                       debt   obligations   of   companies   and
                                       governments of any nation.

Templeton Emerging Fixed  05/01/97     Sees long-term capital growth by
Income Series                          investing in stocks and debt
                                       obligations of companies and
                                       governments of any nation, including
                                       developing nations.

(xxi)   Representative Templeton International Portfolios

Name of Fund              Inception   Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Asian Development Equity  01/22/88    Seeks to maximize overall long-term
Fund                                  return by investing, directly or
                                      indirectly,     primarily    in    shares,
                                      convertible  bonds,  warrants,  and  other
                                      equity  related  securities of entities in
                                      the Asian developing countries.

Templeton Asia Fund       11/14/89    Seeks to achieve long-term capital
                                      appreciation by investing primarily in
                                      equity securities of entities which
                                      either are listed on recognized
                                      exchanges in capital markets of the
                                      Asia/Oceania Region or which have their
                                      area of primary activity in those same
                                      capital markets.

Templeton Emerging Asia   06/24/93    Seeks to achieve long-term capital
Fund                                  appreciation by investing primarily in
                                      equity securities of companies which are
                                      either listed on  recognized  exchanges in
                                      capital    markets   in   emerging   Asian
                                      countries  or  companies  which have their
                                      primary  activity  in those  same  capital
                                      markets.

Templeton Emerging        06/19/89    Seeks long term capital appreciation by
Markets Investment Trust              investing in companies operating or
Plc.                                  trading in emerging market countries.
                                      (Closed End)

Templeton Global          08/29/88    Seeks to provide income by investing in
Balanced Trust                        an internationally diversified
                                      portfolio of equities, fixed interest,
                                      and convertible stocks.  (Unit Trust)

Templeton Global Growth   08/29/88    Seeks to maximize total investment
Trust                                 return by investing in an
                                      internationally diversified portfolio
                                      of equity shares and convertible
                                      stocks.  (Unit Trust)

Templeton Global Income   07/13/88    Seeks to achieve high current income by
Portfolio, Ltd.                       investing primarily in a portfolio of
                                      fixed income  securities  (including  debt
                                      securities and preferred stock) of issuers
                                      throughout the world.

Templeton Latin America   05/03/94    Seeks long-term capital growth by
Investment Trust Plc.                 investing in companies listed on stock
                                      exchanges in Latin America or that have
                                      substantial trading interests in that
                                      region. (Closed End)

Templeton Value Trust    06/08/89     Seeks maximum total
                                      investment  return  by  investing  in  all
                                      geographic and economic sectors.

Templeton/National Bank  04/06/93     Growth  Portfolio - Seeks long term of
Greece Trans-European                 capital growth by investing in stock Fund
                                      and  debt   securities  of  companies  and
                                      governments   primarily   located  in  the
                                      European   Economic   Community.    Income
                                      Portfolio - Seeks high current  income and
                                      relative   stability   of   principal   by
                                      investing in debt  securities of companies
                                      and governments  located  primarily in the
                                      European Economic Community.

(xxii)   Mutual Series Funds

Name of Fund              Inception   Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Value - Global
Mutual European Fund (a   07/03/96    Seeks capital appreciation, which may
series of Franklin                    occasionally be short-term, and income
Mutual Series Funds Inc.)             by investing in common and preferred
                                      stocks,   as  well  as  debt   securities,
                                      including    high    yield,    lower-rated
                                      securities,  that  the  fund's  investment
                                      manager believes are undervalued. The fund
                                      focuses  primarily  in European  companies
                                      and may  invest  in  small  capitalization
                                      stock.

Growth
Mutual Discovery Fund (a  12/31/92    Seeks long-term capital appreciation by
series of Franklin                    investing in common and preferred
Mutual Series Funds Inc.)             stock, including high yield,
                                      lower-rated securities of U.S. and
                                      foreign companies. Investments include
                                      securities of smaller cap companies.

Growth and Income
Mutual Beacon Fund (a     06/29/62    Seeks capital appreciation, which may
series of Franklin                    occasionally be short-term, and income
Mutual Series Funds Inc.)             by investing in common and preferred
                                      stock, as well as debt securities,
                                      including high yield, lower-rated
                                      securities of U.S. and foreign
                                      companies that the fund's investment
                                      manager believes are undervalued.

Mutual Financial          08/19/97    Seeks capital appreciation, which may
Services Fund (a series               occasionally be short-term, and income
of Franklin Mutual                    by investing in common and preferred
Series Funds Inc.)                    stock, as well as debt securities and
                                      securities  convertible into common stocks
                                      (including   convertible   preferred   and
                                      convertible  debt  securities)  issued  by
                                      companies   in  the   financial   services
                                      industry.

Mutual Qualified Fund (a  09/26/80    Seeks capital appreciation, which may
series of Franklin                    occasionally be short-term, and income
Mutual Series Funds Inc.)             by investing in common and preferred
                                      stock, as swell as debt securities,
                                      including high yield, lower-rated
                                      securities of U.S. and foreign
                                      companies that the fund's investment
                                      manager believes are undervalued.

Mutual Shares Fund (a     07/01/49    Seeks capital appreciation, which may
series of Franklin                    occasionally be short-term, and income
Mutual Series Funds Inc.)             by investing in common and preferred
                                      stock, as swell as debt securities,
                                      including high yield, lower-rated
                                      securities of U.S. and foreign
                                      companies that the fund's investment
                                      manager believes are undervalued.

(xxiii)  Asset Allocation Funds

Name of Fund              Inception   Principal Investments/Strategy
                          Date

Franklin Templeton Fund               Consist of three (3) series that seek
Allocator Series                      the highest level of long-term total
                                      return   that   is   consistent   with  an
                                      acceptable   level   of   risk,   achieved
                                      primarily through a professionally managed
                                      portfolio  of mutual  funds.  Each  series
                                      will  seek  to  achieve   its   investment
                                      objective  through active asset allocation
                                      implemented  primarily with investments in
                                      a combination of Franklin Templeton mutual
                                      funds.

Franklin Templeton        12/31/96    Seeks the highest level of long-term
Conservative Target Fund              total return that is consistent with a
                                      lower level of risk.

Franklin Templeton        12/31/96    Seeks the highest level of long-term
Moderate Target Fund                  total return that is consistent with a
                                      moderate level of risk.

Franklin Templeton        12/31/96    Seeks the highest level of long-term
Growth Target Fund                    total return that is consistent with a
                                      higher level of risk.


(b)   FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on the Company's operations in various geographic areas of the world
and a breakout of business  segment  information is contained in Note 7 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere herein.

(c)   NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

           Investment Management and Administrative Services

The  Company,   through  its  various  subsidiaries  described  above,  provides
investment advisory, portfolio management,  transfer agency, business management
agent and administrative services to the Franklin Templeton Group. Such services
are provided  pursuant to agreements in effect with each of the U.S.  registered
Franklin Templeton Funds open- and closed-end investment  companies.  Comparable
agreements  are in effect with foreign  registered  Funds and with other managed
accounts.  The management  agreements for the U.S. registered Franklin Templeton
Funds  continue  in  effect  for  successive  annual  periods,   providing  such
continuance is  specifically  approved at least annually by a majority vote cast
in person at a meeting of such Funds' Boards of Trustees or Directors called for
that  purpose,  or by a  vote  of  the  holders  of a  majority  of  the  Funds'
outstanding voting securities. In either event, the continuance must be approved
by a majority of such Funds'  trustees or directors  who are not parties to such
agreement or interested  persons of the Funds or the Company  within the meaning
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "40 Act").  Trustees and directors of
Funds' boards are  hereinafter  referred to as "directors".  Foreign  registered
Funds have various termination rights and provisions.

 Each such agreement  automatically  terminates in the event of its "assignment"
(as defined in the 40 Act) and either party may terminate the agreement  without
penalty  after  written  notice  ranging  from  thirty  (30) to sixty (60) days.
"Assignment"  is  defined  in the 40 Act as  including  any  direct or  indirect
transfer of a controlling block of voting stock. Control is defined as the power
to  exercise a  controlling  influence  over the  management  or  policies  of a
company.

 If there were to be a  termination  of a significant  number of the  management
agreements between the Franklin  Templeton Funds and the Company's  subsidiaries
or with respect to a significant  portion of the Other Assets,  such termination
would have a material  adverse  impact upon the Company.  To date, no management
agreements  of the Company or any of its  subsidiaries  with any of the Franklin
Templeton Funds have been involuntarily terminated. Changes in the customer base
of  institutional  investors  occur on a  regular  basis.  Since  the  Templeton
Acquisition and the Mutual  Acquisition to date,  assets under management in the
category of Other Assets set forth above have continued to grow.

 As of  September  30,  1997,  substantially  all of the  shares of the  various
directly and indirectly  owned  subsidiary  companies were owned directly by the
Company or  subsidiaries  thereof,  except with  respect to a limited  number of
foreign entities and limited minority  ownership of certain other companies.  As
of December 1, 1997,  Charles B. Johnson,  Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. and R. Martin
Wiskemann beneficially owned approximately 19.1%, 15.2% and 9.3%,  respectively,
of the outstanding voting common stock of the Company.

Under the terms of the management  agreements with the Franklin Templeton Funds,
the  various  subsidiary  companies  described  above  generally  supervise  and
implement  such Funds'  investment  activities  and  provide the  administrative
services and  facilities  which are  necessary  to the  operation of such Funds'
business. Such subsidiary companies also conduct research and provide investment
advisory  services and,  subject to and in accordance  with any directions  such
Funds' boards may issue from time to time, such subsidiary  companies  determine
which  securities  such Funds will  purchase,  hold or sell.  In addition,  such
subsidiary  companies  take all steps  necessary  to implement  such  decisions,
including the selection of brokers and dealers to execute  transactions for such
Funds,  in  accordance  with  detailed  criteria  set  forth  in the  management
agreement for such Funds and applicable law and practice.  Similar  services are
rendered with respect to the Other Assets.

Generally,  the  Company  or a  subsidiary  provides  and pays the  salaries  of
personnel who serve as officers of the Franklin  Templeton Funds,  including the
President  and such other  administrative  personnel as are necessary to conduct
such Funds'  day-to-day  business  operations,  including  maintaining  a Fund's
portfolio  records,  answering  shareholder  inquiries,  providing  information,
creating and publishing  literature,  compliance  with  securities  regulations,
maintaining  accounting systems and controls,  preparation of annual reports and
other administrative activities.

The Funds  generally  pay their own expenses  such as legal and  auditing  fees,
reporting and board and shareholder  meeting costs,  SEC and state  registration
and similar expenses.  Generally, the Funds pay advisory companies a fee payable
monthly  based  upon a  Fund's  net  assets.  Annual  rates  under  the  various
investment  management  agreements range from .15% to a maximum of 2.00% and are
generally reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels.

 The investment  management  agreements  permit advisory  companies to act as an
advisor  to more  than one Fund so long as such  companies'  ability  to  render
services to each of such Funds is not  impaired,  and so long as  purchases  and
sales  appropriate  for all  such  Funds  are made on a  proportionate  or other
equitable  basis.  Management  of the  Company  and the  directors  of the Funds
regularly review the Fund fee structures in light of Fund performance, the level
and range of services provided,  industry conditions and other relevant factors.
Advisory fees are  generally  waived or  voluntarily  reduced when a new Fund is
first  established  and then increased to contractual  levels with the growth in
net assets.

The investment  advisory  services  provided by such advisory  companies include
fundamental  investment research and valuation analyses,  encompassing  original
country, industry and company research, company visits and inspections,  and the
utilization of such sources as company public records and activities, management
interviews,   company  prepared   information,   and  other  publicly  available
information,  as well as analyses of suppliers,  customers and  competitors.  In
addition,  research  services  provided by  brokerage  firms are used to support
other  research.  In this  regard,  some  brokerage  business  from the Funds is
allocated in recognition of value-added research services received.

 Fixed-income  research  includes economic  analysis,  credit analysis and value
analysis. The economic analysis function monitors and evaluates numerous factors
that  influence  the supply and demand for credit on a worldwide  basis.  Credit
analysts  research the credit  worthiness  of debt issuers and their  individual
short-term and long-term debt issues. Yield spread differential analysis reviews
the  relative  value  of  market  sectors  that  represent  buying  and  selling
opportunities.

Additional  shareholder  administrative  services  are  provided by FTIS,  which
receives  administrative  fees from the Funds for providing  shareholder  record
keeping  services and for acting as transfer and  dividend-paying  agent for the
Funds. As of September 30, 1997, such  compensation was based upon an annual fee
per shareholder account,  ranging between $14.54 and $18.00, a pro-rated portion
of which was paid monthly.

Distribution and Marketing

Distributors acts as the principal  underwriter and distributor of shares of the
open-end Franklin Templeton Funds. Pursuant to underwriting  agreements with the
Funds,  Distributors generally pays the expenses of distribution of Fund shares.
Although the Company does significant  advertising and sales promotions  through
media  sources,  Fund  shares  are sold  primarily  through a large  network  of
independent   participating  securities  dealers.  As  of  September  30,  1997,
approximately  3,772 local,  regional and national  securities  brokerage  firms
offered shares of the Franklin Templeton Funds for sale to the investing public.
The Company has approximately  sixty-five (65)  "wholesalers" who interface with
the broker-dealer  community.  Fund shares are offered to individual  investors,
qualified  groups,  trustees,  IRA and profit sharing or money  purchase  plans,
employee   benefit  plans,   trust   companies,   bank  trust   departments  and
institutional investors. In addition,  various management and advisory services,
commingled and pooled accounts,  wrap fee arrangements and various other private
investment  management services are offered to certain private and institutional
investors.

 Broker-dealers  are paid various fees for services in matching  investors  with
Funds whose investment  objectives match such investors'  goals.  Broker-dealers
also assist in explaining the operations of the Funds,  in servicing the account
and in various other distribution services.

Most of the U.S.  based  Franklin  Templeton  Funds have a  multi-class  share
structure  whereby Class I shares are sold with a maximum front-end sales charge
which ranges from a low of 1.50% to a high of 5.75%.  Reductions  in the maximum
sales charges may be available  depending upon the amount  invested and the type
of investor. Class II shares, which were introduced during the 1995 fiscal year,
have a hybrid, level load structure combining aspects of conventional front-end,
back-end and level-load pricing. Class II shares are subject to an initial sales
charge of 1% paid  immediately  by the investor.  Also,  in connection  with the
distribution  of Class II shares,  a principal  distribution  subsidiary  of the
Company has in the past paid, and may in the future pay, an additional 1% to the
broker-dealer. However, Class II shares are generally subject to a 1% contingent
deferred sales charge,  charged to the investor and returned to the Company,  on
redemptions  within  eighteen  (18) months of  purchase.  See "Risk  Factors and
Cautionary Statements". Class II shares are also subject to higher on-going Rule
12b-1 fees, as described below. The multi-class structure was adopted to provide
investors  greater  payment   alternatives  in  implementing   their  investment
programs.  The  Company's  money  market  and  institutional  funds  are sold to
investors without a sales charge.

Most of the U.S.  registered  Franklin  Templeton  funds,  with the exception of
certain Franklin  Templeton money market funds,  have also adopted  distribution
plans  (the  "Plans")  under  Rule  12b-1  promulgated  under the 40 Act  ("Rule
12b-1").  The Plans are  established  for an  initial  term of one (1) year and,
thereafter,  must be  approved  annually by the Fund boards and by a majority of
disinterested  directors.  All such Plans are subject to termination at any time
by a majority vote of the disinterested directors or by the Funds' shareholders.
The Plans permit the Funds to bear certain expenses relating to the distribution
of their shares.

Fees under the Plans for Class I shares  range in amount  from a low of .10% per
annum of average  daily net  assets to a high of .50% while  Class II share fees
range between .65% to 1%. The  implementation  of the Plans provided for a lower
fee on Class I shares  acquired  prior to the adoption of such Plans.  Fees from
the Plans are paid primarily to third party dealers who provide service to their
shareholder accounts, as well as engage in distribution activities. Distributors
may  also  receive  reimbursement  from  the  Funds  for  expenses  involved  in
distributing the Funds, such as advertising,  and reimbursement for a 1% payment
to  dealers on sales of Class II shares,  subject to the Plans'  limitations  on
amounts.

As of  September  30, 1997,  there were  approximately  7.4 million  shareholder
accounts in the worldwide Franklin Templeton Group of Funds.

Revenues

As shown in the Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  the Company's revenues are
derived  primarily from its investment  management  activities.  Total operating
revenues are set forth in the table below.  Revenues from investment  management
fees  have  comprised  approximately  60%,  58% and 58% in 1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively,  of total operating revenue for each of the three (3) fiscal years
reported.  Underwriting  commissions,  from  gross  sales and  reinvestments  of
products subject to commissions  contributed to revenues  approximately 34%, 36%
and 36% in 1997,  1996 and 1995  respectively.  Shareholder  servicing fees from
mutual  fund  activities  contributed  6%,  6% and 5% in  1997,  1996  and  1995
respectively. See "MD&A--Operating Revenues".

Other Financial Services

 The Company's consumer lending,  dealer auto loan and real estate businesses do
not as yet contribute  significantly to either the revenues or the net income of
the Company. Franklin Bank's operations are limited by national banking laws and
no immediate  significant  increase in revenues is anticipated.  The real estate
operations  have  incurred net losses since  inception  and the Company does not
anticipate  any immediate  improvement  in this line of business.  The Company's
dealer auto loan business  required the infusion of significant  working capital
during  fiscal 1996 and 1995,  either in the form of  inter-company  loans or by
contributions  to the  capital of FCC by the  Company.  During  portions of that
period,  the Company  experienced an increase in delinquency rates in such loans
and, in response,  expanded its auto loan  collection  efforts and tightened its
underwriting  policies.  There was a significant  reduction in gross charge-offs
and  delinquency  rates  during  fiscal 1997.  A more  detailed  analysis of the
financial  effects of loan losses and delinquency  rates, as well as the funding
of this activity, is contained in the "MD&A--Operating Revenues".

Regulatory Considerations

Virtually  all  aspects  of the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to various
foreign, federal and state laws and regulations. As discussed above, the Company
and a number of its subsidiaries  are registered with various  foreign,  federal
and state governmental agencies. Foreign, federal and state laws and regulations
grant such supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power
to limit or restrict  the Company  from  carrying on its business if it fails to
comply with such laws and  regulations.  In such event,  the possible  sanctions
which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations
on the Company's (or a subsidiary's)  engaging in business for specified periods
of time, the revocation of the investment advisor or broker-dealer registrations
of subsidiaries and censures and fines.

 The  Company's  officers,  directors  and  employees  may from time to time own
securities  which are also held by the Funds.  The Company's  internal  policies
with respect to individual investments by certain employees,  including officers
and  directors  who are employed by the Company,  require  prior  clearance  and
reporting of some transactions and restrict certain transactions so as to reduce
the possibility of conflicts of interest.

To the extent that  existing or future  regulations  affecting  the sale of Fund
shares or other  investment  products or their  investment  strategies  cause or
contribute to reduced sales of Fund shares or investment  products or impair the
investment  performance  of the Funds or such  other  investment  products,  the
Company's  aggregate assets under management and its revenues might be adversely
affected.  Changes in  regulations  affecting  free  movement  of  international
currencies might also adversely affect the Company.

 Since 1993,  the NASD Conduct Rules have limited the amount of aggregate  sales
charges  which  may be paid in  connection  with the  purchase  and  holding  of
investment company shares sold through brokers.  The effect of the rule might be
to limit the amount of fees that could be paid  pursuant to a fund's  12b-1 Plan
in a situation where a fund has no, or limited, new sales for a prolonged period
of  time.  None of the  Franklin  Templeton  funds  are in,  or close  to,  that
situation at the present time.

Technology

The Company established a dedicated Year 2000 Project Team in 1996 to assess and
modify all systems in its computing  environment  and is currently  modifying or
replacing all non-Year-2000-compliant systems. The Company is also upgrading its
desktop   hardware  and  software  to  support  the  next   generation  of  more
sophisticated business  applications.  Communication links were also upgraded in
1997 to support the Company's  global offices,  as well as to provide  dedicated
links to key business  partners.  The Company will continue to assess the impact
of Year  2000  issues on its  global  computer  systems  and  applications.  See
"MD&A--Operating Expenses".

Competition

The  financial  services  industry is highly  competitive  and has  increasingly
become a global industry.  As a result,  comparative  market data is not readily
available.  There are over 6,600 open-end investment companies of varying sizes,
investment  policies and objectives whose shares are being offered to the public
in the United  States.  Due to the Company's  international  presence and varied
product mix, it is difficult to assess the Company's market position relative to
other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but the Company believes that it
is one of the more widely diversified  investment managers in the United States.
The Company believes that its strong equity and  fixed-income  base coupled with
its strong global presence will serve its competitive  needs well over time. The
Company continues its focus on service to customers,  performance on investments
and  extensive  marketing  activities  with its strong  broker-dealer  and other
financial institution distribution network.

The Company is in competition  with the financial  services and other investment
alternatives offered by stock brokerage and investment banking firms,  insurance
companies,   banks,   savings  and  loan   associations   and  other   financial
institutions.  Many of these  competitors have  substantially  greater resources
than the  Company.  Although  the  banking  industry  continues  to  expand  its
sponsorship of proprietary funds distributed  through third party  distributors,
the Company has and continues to actively pursue sales  relationships with banks
and insurance companies to broaden its distribution  network in response to such
competitive pressures.

As investor  interest in the mutual fund  industry  has  increased,  competitive
pressures have increased on sales charges of  broker-dealer  distributed  funds.
The Company  believes  that,  although this trend will  continue,  a significant
portion  of  the   investing   public  still  relies  on  the  services  of  the
broker-dealer community,  particularly during weaker market conditions. However,
in response to competitive  pressures or for other similar reasons,  the Company
might be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges,  substantially  all of
which are currently paid to broker-dealers  and other financial  intermediaries.
The  reduction  in such  sales  charges  could  make the sale of  shares  of the
Franklin   Templeton  Funds  somewhat  less  attractive  to  the   broker-dealer
community,  which could in turn have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
revenues.  The Company  believes  that it is well  positioned  to deal with such
changes in  marketing  trends as a result of its already  extensive  advertising
activities and broad based marketplace recognition.

The Company  advertises the Franklin Templeton Group in major national financial
publications, as well as on radio and television to promote name recognition and
to assist its distribution  network. Such activities included purchasing network
and cable  programming,  sponsorship of sporting  events,  such as the "Franklin
Templeton Shark Shoot-Out", sponsorship of The Nightly Business Report on public
television, and extensive newspaper and magazine advertising.

Further  aspects of  competition  are  discussed  below under "Risk  Factors and
Cautionary Statements".

Asset Mix

As discussed above, the Company's revenues are derived primarily from investment
management  activities.  Broadly speaking, the direction and amount of change in
the net assets of the Funds are  dependent  upon two  factors:  (1) the level of
sales of shares of the funds as compared to  redemptions of shares of the funds;
and (2) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities  owned by
the Funds.  Although the Company  believes that it has  substantially  benefited
from the Templeton  and Mutual  Acquisitions,  the resultant  shift in asset mix
from primarily a fixed-income  base to a combination of fixed-income  and global
equities has increased the  possibility  of volatility in the Company's  managed
portfolios due to the increased  percentage of equity  investments  managed.  In
addition,  the Company derives higher revenues and income from its equity assets
and therefore a future shift in assets from equity to fixed-income would have an
adverse impact on the Company's income and revenues.  Despite this potential for
volatility,  management  believes  that  the  Franklin  Templeton  Group is more
competitive  as a result of the  greater  diversity  of global  investments  and
product mix available to its customers.

Market values are affected by many things,  including  the general  condition of
national and world economics and the direction and volume of changes in interest
rates and/or  inflation  rates.  Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield
curve will have an effect on fixed-income  assets under management as well as on
the flow of  monies  to and  from  fixed-income  funds  and,  therefore,  on the
Company's  revenues from such funds.  In addition,  the impact of changes in the
equity marketplace may significantly affect assets under management. The effects
of the foregoing  factors on equity funds and  fixed-income  funds often operate
inversely  and it is,  therefore,  difficult  to  predict  the net effect of any
particular set of conditions on the level of assets under management.

Although  the Company and its assets under  management  are subject to political
and currency risks, due to its international activities, as is discussed in more
detail in "Risk Factors and  Cautionary  Statements"  and  "MD&A--Liquidity  and
Capital Resources", its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency markets and
to fixed-asset value depreciation is limited.

Forward-Looking Statements

When  used in this  Form  10-K and in future  filings  by the  Company  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission,  in the Company's press releases and in oral
statements made with the approval of an authorized  executive officer, the words
or phrases  "will likely  result",  "are  expected  to",  "will  continue",  "is
anticipated",  "estimate",  "project"  or similar  expressions  are  intended to
identify  "forward-looking   statements"  within  the  meaning  of  the  Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain
risks and  uncertainties,  including  those  discussed  under the caption  "Risk
Factors and  Cautionary  Statements"  below,  that could cause actual results to
differ  materially from historical  earnings and those presently  anticipated or
projected.  The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on
any such forward-looking  statements,  which speak only as of the date made. The
Company  wishes to advise readers that the factors listed below could affect the
Company's financial performance and could cause the Company's actual results for
future periods to differ  materially  from any opinions or statements  expressed
with respect to future periods in any current statements.

The Company will not  undertake  and  specifically  declines any  obligation  to
release  publicly  the  result  of  any  revisions  which  may  be  made  to any
forward-looking  statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of
such  statements or to reflect the occurrence of  anticipated  or  unanticipated
events.

Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements

The Company's revenues and income are derived primarily from the management of a
variety of financial  services  products.  The  financial  services  industry is
highly competitive, as discussed above. Such competition could negatively impact
the Company's  market share,  which could impact assets under  management,  from
which the bulk of the Company's revenues and income arise.

Sales of mutual fund shares and other  financial  services  products can also be
negatively affected by adverse general securities market conditions,  burdensome
governmental  regulations  and  recessionary  global  economic  conditions.   In
addition,  securities dealers,  whose large retail distribution  systems play an
important  role in the sale of  shares of the  Franklin,  Templeton  and  Mutual
Series funds,  also sponsor  competing  proprietary  mutual funds. To the extent
that these firms limit or restrict  the sale of  Franklin,  Templeton  or Mutual
Series  funds  shares  through  their  brokerage   systems  in  favor  of  their
proprietary  mutual  funds,  future  sales may be  negatively  impacted  and the
Company's revenues might be adversely  affected.  In addition,  as the number of
competitors in the investment management industry increases, greater demands are
placed on existing distribution channels,  which may cause distribution costs to
increase.

The Company's  assets under  management  include a significant  number of global
equities,  which increase the volatility of the Company's managed portfolios and
its revenue and income  streams.  In addition,  the shift in the Company's asset
mix from  primarily  fixed-income  to a combination of  fixed-income  and global
equities has increased the  possibility  of volatility in the Company's  managed
portfolios due to the increased  percentage of equity investments  managed.  The
securities market is currently experiencing the longest "bull market" in history
with unprecedented levels of investor demand for equity securities.  As a result
of this financial  environment,  the Company's equity holdings have increased in
value,  which has contributed to increased assets under management and revenues.
The valuation of the equity portion of the Company's  assets under management is
especially  subject to the securities  market,  which is cyclical and subject to
periodic corrections.  A downturn in this financial market would have an adverse
effect  on the  value  of the  equity  portion  of the  Company's  assets  under
management which in turn would have a negative effect on the Company's revenues.
In  addition,  the Company  derives  higher  revenues and income from its equity
assets and therefore a future shift in assets from equity to fixed-income  would
have an adverse impact on the Company's income and revenues.

Market values are affected by many things,  including  the general  condition of
national and world economics and the direction and volume of changes in interest
rates and/or  inflation  rates.  A significant  portion of the Company's  assets
under management are fixed-income securities. Fluctuations in interest rates and
in the yield curve will have an effect on fixed-income  assets under  management
as well as on the flow of monies to and from fixed-income funds and,  therefore,
on the Company's revenues from such funds. In addition, the impact of changes in
the equity  marketplace may significantly  affect assets under  management.  The
effects of the foregoing  factors on equity funds and  fixed-income  funds often
operate inversely and it is,  therefore,  difficult to predict the net effect of
any particular set of conditions on the level of assets under management.

Certain  portions of the Company's  managed  portfolios  are invested in various
securities of  corporations  located or doing business in developing  regions of
the world commonly known as emerging markets. These portfolios and the Company's
revenues  derived  from  the  management  of  such  portfolios  are  subject  to
significant   risks  of  loss  from   unfavorable   political   and   diplomatic
developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental
policies, expropriation,  nationalization, confiscation of assets and changes in
legislation relating to foreign ownership. Foreign trading markets, particularly
in some emerging market countries are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated
and significantly more volatile.

A number of mutual fund  sponsors  presently  market their funds  without  sales
charges.  As  investor  interest  in the mutual  fund  industry  has  increased,
competitive   pressures  have  increased  on  sales  charges  of   broker-dealer
distributed funds. In response to such competitive pressures,  the Company might
be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges,  substantially  all of which
are currently paid to  broker-dealers  and other financial  intermediaries.  The
reduction in such sales  charges  could make the sale of shares of the Franklin,
Templeton  and  Mutual  Series  funds  less  attractive  to  the   broker-dealer
community,  which could in turn have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
revenues.  In the  alternative,  the Company might be required to pay additional
fees,  commissions or charges in connection with the  distribution of its shares
which could have a negative effect on the Company's earnings.

Sales of Class II shares have increased relative to the Company's overall sales,
resulting  in higher  distribution  expenses,  which  have  caused  distribution
expenses to exceed distribution revenues for certain products and put increasing
pressure  on the  Company's  profit  margins.  If the  Company is unable to fund
commissions  on Class II shares using  existing  cash flow and debt  facilities,
additional  funding  will be  necessary.  Past  sales of Class II shares are not
necessarily  indicative  of future  sales  volume,  and future sales of Class II
shares  may be lower or higher  as a result of  changes  in  investor  demand or
lessened or unsuccessful sales efforts by the Company.

The Company is in competition  with the financial  services and other investment
alternatives offered by stock brokerage and investment banking firms,  insurance
companies,   banks,   savings  and  loan   associations   and  other   financial
institutions.  Many of these  competitors have  substantially  greater resources
than the Company.  In addition,  there has been a trend of  consolidation in the
mutual fund  industry  which has resulted in stronger  competitors.  The banking
industry  also  continues  to  expand  its  sponsorship  of  proprietary   funds
distributed through third party distributors.  To the extent that banks limit or
restrict the sale of Franklin,  Templeton or Mutual Series shares  through their
distribution  systems in favor of their proprietary  mutual funds,  assets under
management might decline and the Company's revenues might be adversely affected.

The Company is unable to predict at this time whether the Taxpayer Relief Act of
1997 will have a positive or a negative  effect on the  Company's  portfolios or
revenues.

The Company's  real estate  activities are subject to  fluctuations  in the real
estate market place as well as to  significant  competition  from companies with
much larger real estate portfolios giving them  significantly  greater economies
of scale.

The  Company's  auto  loan  receivables  business  and  credit  card  receivable
activities are subject to  significant  fluctuations  in those  consumer  market
places as well as to  significant  competition  from  companies with much larger
receivable  portfolios.  In addition,  certain of the Company's  competitors are
engaged  in the  financing  of  auto  loans  in  connection  with a much  larger
automobile   manufacturing   businesses  and  may  at  times  provide  loans  at
significantly  below  market  interest  rates in order  to  further  the sale of
automobiles.

The consumer loan market is highly  competitive.  The Company competes with many
types of institutions including banks, finance companies,  credit unions and the
finance  subsidiaries  of large  automobile  manufacturers.  Interest  rates the
Company can charge  and,  therefore,  its yields vary based on this  competitive
environment. The Company is reliant on its relationships with various automobile
dealers and this  relationship is highly dependent on the rates and service that
the Company provides. There is no guarantee that in this competitive environment
the Company can maintain its  relationships  with these  dealers.  Auto loan and
credit card portfolio  losses can also be influenced  significantly by trends in
the economy and credit markets which  negatively  impact  borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.


Item 2.   Properties
General

As of September 30, 1997,  the Company leases offices and facilities in ten (10)
locations  in  the   immediate   vicinity  of  its   principal   executive   and
administrative  offices  located at 777 Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,
California.  In addition,  the Company owns six (6) buildings  near  Sacramento,
California,  as well as two (2) buildings in St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  one (1)
building in Phoenix,  Arizona,  two (2) buildings in Nassau,  Bahamas as well as
substantial  space in high rise office  buildings  in Argentina  and  Singapore.
Certain properties of the Company were under construction  during fiscal 1997 as
described  below.  Since the Company is operated on a unified  basis,  corporate
activities, fund related activities,  accounting operations,  sales, real estate
and banking  operations,  auto loans and credit  cards,  management  information
system  activities,  publishing  and printing  operations,  shareholder  service
operations and other business  activities and operations take place in a variety
of such locations.  The Company or its  subsidiaries  also lease office space in
Florida,  New York,  and Utah and in several  other  states.  In  addition,  the
Company or its  subsidiaries  also lease  office  space in  Australia,  Bermuda,
Brazil, Canada, Dubai, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Poland, Russia, Scotland, South Africa, Taiwan, and Vietnam.

Property Description

Leased

As of September  30, 1997,  the Company  leased  properties at the locations set
forth below:


                              Approximate      Approximate Base      Expiration
Location                     Square Footage     Monthly Rental         Date

777 Mariners Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404               177,000         $443,000      February 2001

1147 & 1149 Chess Drive
Foster City, CA  94404             121,000         $108,000      June 2000

500 East Broward Boulevard
Ft. Lauderdale, FL  33394          104,000         $175,000      December 2000

1810 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                49,000          $89,000      June 2000

2 Waters Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                49,000          $70,000      July 1999

1950 Elkhorn Court
San Mateo, CA  94403                37,000          $43,000      July 2001

901  &  951  Mariners  Island                                   Between March
Boulevard                           34,000          $62,000        1999 &
San Mateo, CA  94404                                              April 2000

1850 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                19,000          $34,000      July 2000

1400 Fashion Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404                14,000          $41,000       June 2002

Other U.S. Locations                68,000                            --
                                                  --
Foreign Operations                 147,000                            --
                                                  --

Owned

The Company  maintains a customer  service facility in the property that it owns
at 10600 White Rock Road,  Rancho  Cordova,  California.  The  Company  occupies
75,000  square feet in this  property and has leased out 46,000 square feet to a
third party until February 2000 at an approximate monthly rental of $69,000. The
Company owns an additional twenty-seven (27) acres of adjoining land on which it
has constructed  two (2) office  buildings of  approximately  67,000 square feet
each and a data center/warehouse facility of approximately 162,000 square feet.

The Company owns six (6)  facilities in St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  including an
approximate 90,000 square foot office building and an approximate 117,000 square
foot facility devoted to a computer data center, training, warehouse and mailing
operations.  Four (4) new office buildings of  approximately  70,000 square feet
each were under  construction  during fiscal 1997 and were completed in November
1997.  Shareholder  servicing activities have been relocated to this new 280,000
square foot development.  The Company plans to develop additional  facilities at
this site in the future.

The  Company  also  owns  two  (2)  office  buildings  in  Nassau,  Bahamas,  of
approximately   14,000  square  feet  and  approximately   25,000  square  feet,
respectively as well as a nearby condominium residence.

Other

The  Company is the sole  limited  partner  with a 60%  partnership  interest in
Mariner Partners,  a California  limited  partnership formed in 1984 to develop,
operate and hold the  property  occupied by the Company at 777  Mariners  Island
Boulevard.  Mariner Partners obtained thirty year non-recourse financing for the
property from  Metropolitan  Life Insurance Company at an interest rate of 8.10%
per annum, due November 2002. The principal balance  outstanding as of September
30, 1997, was $24.9 million.

Property Changes

The Company  entered into two (2)  separate  contracts,  totaling  approximately
$13.8 million, in May 1997 and September 1997, respectively,  for the design and
construction of Buildings C and D in Rancho Cordova. Construction of Building C,
a 74,000  square foot  office  building,  was  completed  in  November  1997 and
Building D, a 95,000 square foot office building, is expected to be completed in
August 1998.

During fiscal 1997, the Company also owned an office  building of  approximately
70,000  square feet at 1800 Gateway  Drive,  San Mateo,  California.  In October
1997,  the Company  sold,  but  continued to occupy it pursuant to a lease.  The
lease  provides for base monthly  rental  payments of $199,500 and terminates in
July 2002.  The Company has the right to terminate the lease without  penalty at
any time after July 2000.

On  December  12,  1997,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company  approved  the
previously-executed contract to acquire approximately thirty-three (33) acres of
land ("Bay  Meadows")  located in San Mateo,  California  for a total  estimated
purchase price of approximately $21.6 million. A subsidiary of the Company, PRI,
executed a contract in May 1995 to purchase  the  property,  which  contract was
subsequently assigned to FRI. The Bay Meadows purchase was subject to receipt of
governmental  regulatory  approvals,  which were  obtained in April  1997.  As a
result,  a  related  escrow  deposit  of  $850,000  made by the  Company  became
non-refundable.  As a condition to approval of the Company's  planned use of the
Bay Meadows property,  the City of San Mateo will require construction of roads,
modification  to a freeway  interchange,  and other off-site  improvements.  The
Company is obligated to reimburse the seller of Bay Meadows for a portion of the
cost of certain of these off-site improvements. Presently, this reimbursement is
expected to  approximate  $7.9  million.  Escrow on the purchase is scheduled to
close in April 1998,  at which time the Company is  obligated  to make its first
payment for off-site improvements.

After  receiving  the necessary  governmental  approvals for purchase of the Bay
Meadows property,  the Company executed a design build contract in July 1997 for
the design and  construction of a new 900,000 square foot campus at Bay Meadows.
The total  contract  amount  will not be final  until  after the  project is
completely  designed  and  building  permits  issued  by the City of San  Mateo,
California.


Item 3.   Pending Legal Proceedings

There are no material  pending legal  proceedings to which the Company or any of
its  subsidiaries  is a party, or of which any of their property is the subject;
nor are any  such  proceedings  known  to be  contemplated  by any  governmental
authorities.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Owners

During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.






Executive Officers of Registrant

The following  information on the executive  officers of the Company is given as
of December 1, 1997:

Name                         Age   Principal Occupation for the Past Five Years
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Charles B. Johnson           64    President, Chief Executive Officer and
                                   Director of the Company; Chairman and
                                   Director, Franklin Advisers, Inc. and
                                   Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.;
                                   Director, Templeton Worldwide, Inc.,
                                   Franklin Bank, Franklin/Templeton Investor
                                   Services, Inc., Franklin Mutual Advisers,
                                   Inc. and General Host Corporation; officer
                                   and/or director, as the case may be, of
                                   most other principal U.S. subsidiaries of
                                   the Company; officer and/or director or
                                   trustee, as the case may be, of 54 of the
                                   investment companies in the Franklin
                                   Templeton Group of Funds.

Harmon E. Burns              52    Executive Vice President, Director and
                                   Secretary of the Company; Executive Vice
                                   President and Director of
                                   Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc., and
                                   Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.;
                                   Executive Vice President of Franklin
                                   Advisers, Inc.; Director, Templeton
                                   Worldwide, Inc., Franklin/Templeton
                                   Investor Services, Inc., and Franklin
                                   Mutual Advisers, Inc.; officer and/or
                                   director, as the case may be, of most other
                                   principal U.S. subsidiaries of the Company;
                                   officer and/or director or trustee, as the
                                   case may be, of 58 of the investment
                                   companies in the Franklin Templeton Group
                                   of Funds.

Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.       57    Executive Vice President and Director of
                                   the Company; Director and President,
                                   Franklin Advisers, Inc.; Director and
                                   Executive Vice President,
                                   Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.;
                                   Director, Franklin/Templeton Investor
                                   Services, Inc., Templeton Worldwide, Inc.,
                                   Franklin Bank and Franklin Mutual Advisers,
                                   Inc.; officer and/or director or trustee,
                                   as the case may be, of most other principal
                                   U.S. subsidiaries of the Company; and of 58
                                   of the investment companies in the Franklin
                                   Templeton Group of Funds.

Martin L. Flanagan           37    Senior  Vice   President,   Chief  Financial
                                   Officer of the Company;  President and Chief
                                   Executive  Officer  of  Franklin   Templeton
                                   Services,  Inc.,  Senior Vice  President  of
                                   Franklin  Advisers,   Inc.,  Executive  Vice
                                   President    and   Director   of   Templeton
                                   Worldwide,  Inc.;  officer  of  most  of the
                                   subsidiaries  of  the  Company  since  March
                                   1993; and officer and/or  director,  trustee
                                   or managing partner,  as the case may be, of
                                   most other  principal U.S.  subsidiaries  of
                                   the  Company;  and of 58 of  the  investment
                                   companies  in the Franklin  Templeton  Group
                                   of  Funds.   Prior  to  1993,   employed  by
                                   various Templeton entities.

Deborah R. Gatzek            49    Senior Vice  President of the Company  since
                                   March 1990;  General  Counsel  since January
                                   1996;  Vice  President of the Company  from,
                                   1986 to March 1990;  Senior Vice  President,
                                   Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and
                                   Franklin  Templeton  Services,   Inc.;  Vice
                                   President,  Franklin Advisers, Inc.; officer
                                   of most other  principal  U.S.  subsidiaries
                                   of the  Company;  and  officer  of 58 of the
                                   investment   companies   in   the   Franklin
                                   Templeton Group of Funds.

Charles E. Johnson           41    Senior Vice President and Director of the
                                   Company; President and Director, Templeton
                                   Worldwide, Inc., Director, Franklin Mutual
                                   Advisers, Inc.; President, CEO and
                                   Director, Franklin Institutional Services
                                   Corporation; Senior Vice President,
                                   Franklin/Templeton Distributors Inc.;
                                   Chairman,  Director, Franklin Agency, Inc.;
                                   Vice President, Franklin Advisers, Inc.;
                                   Chairman and Director, Templeton Investment
                                   Counsel, Inc.;  officer and/or director, as
                                   the case may be, of other U.S. and
                                   international subsidiaries of the Company;
                                   officer and/or director or trustee, as the
                                   case may be, of 36 of the investment
                                   companies in the Franklin Templeton Group
                                   of Funds.

William J. Lippman           72    Senior Vice  President of the Company  since
                                   March 1990;  Director,  Templeton Worldwide,
                                   Inc.;   and  officer   and/or   director  or
                                   trustee   of   seven   of   the   investment
                                   companies  in the  Franklin  Group of Funds.
                                   Until June 1988, President,  Chief Executive
                                   Officer,  and  Director  of L.F.  Rothschild
                                   Fund  Management,  Inc.,  Director  of  L.F.
                                   Rothschild    Asset    Management,     Inc.,
                                   Administrative    Managing    Director   and
                                   Director   of   L.F.   Rothschild   &   Co.,
                                   Incorporated.

Jennifer J. Bolt             33    Vice  President  of the  Company  since June
                                   1994;  Executive  Vice  President,  Franklin
                                   Bank  since  August  1993;   President   and
                                   Director,   Franklin  Capital   Corporation,
                                   since   November   1993;   employed  by  the
                                   Company  in  various  other  capacities  for
                                   more than the past five (5) years.

Donna S. Ikeda               41    Vice    President    since   October   1993;
                                   re-joined   the  Company  in  August   1993.
                                   Previously  employed  from  1982  to 1990 as
                                   Director  of Human  Resources  and also held
                                   position  as   Manager/AVP   of  Shareholder
                                   Services,  Retirement Plan Phone Service and
                                   Customer  New  Accounts.   From  1990  until
                                   August   1993,   Vice    President,    Human
                                   Resources for G.T. Capital Management,  Inc.
                                   and G.T. Global  Financial  Services,  Inc.,
                                   mutual   fund   management   and   financial
                                   services companies.

Gregory E. Johnson           36    Vice  President  of the  Company  since June
                                   1994;     President,      Franklin/Templeton
                                   Distributors,  Inc.  since  September  1994;
                                   Vice  President,   Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.
                                   Prior to that time,  Senior  Vice  President
                                   and  Assistant   National   Sales   Manager,
                                   Franklin/Templeton    Distributors,    Inc.;
                                   Employee of  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  and
                                   its  subsidiaries  in   administrative   and
                                   portfolio   management    capacities   since
                                   January  1986;  officer  of  one  investment
                                   company in the Franklin Group of Funds.

Gordon F. Jones              50    Vice   President   and   Chief   Information
                                   Officer of the  Company  since  March  1995.
                                   From   March  1990  to  March   1995,   Vice
                                   President  of  Novell,   Inc.,  a  worldwide
                                   network systems company;  Vice President and
                                   Chief  Information  Officer of Novell,  Inc.
                                   from March 1994 to March 1995.

Leslie M. Kratter            52    Vice  President  of the Company  since March
                                   1993.   Employed   by  the   Company   since
                                   January   1992.    Secretary   of   Franklin
                                   Advisers,      Inc.,      Franklin/Templeton
                                   Distributors,   Inc.,  Templeton  Worldwide,
                                   Inc.,   and  a  number   of  the   Company's
                                   subsidiaries.

Charles R. Sims              36    Treasurer  of the  Company.  Employed by the
                                   Company  since  1989.  From  August  1991 to
                                   October  1997,   Vice  President  and  Chief
                                   Financial  Officer and from February 1992 to
                                   October    1997,    Director   of   Canadian
                                   operations.

Kenneth A. Lewis             36    Vice  President,  Corporate  Controller  and
                                   Chief  Accounting  Officer  of the  Company,
                                   Senior  Vice  President  and  Controller  of
                                   Templeton  Worldwide,  Inc.,  and an officer
                                   of several  other U.S.  subsidiaries  of the
                                   Company.     Prior    to    the    Templeton
                                   Acquisition,  employed by various  Templeton
                                   entities.


Charles B.  Johnson  and Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr.  are  brothers.  Peter M.
Sacerdote,  a director of the Company, is a brother-in-law of Charles B. Johnson
and Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr.  Charles E. Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson
and the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote. Gregory E. Johnson
is the son of Charles B. Johnson, the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter
Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer Bolt and Charles E. Johnson. Jennifer Bolt
is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson,  the niece of Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. and
Peter  Sacerdote,  and the sister of Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E.  Johnson.
Leslie M. Kratter is the spouse of Deborah R. Gatzek.


                                PART II

Item 5. Market for  Registrant's  Common Equity and Related  Stockholder Matters

Information About the Company's Common Stock

The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and
the Pacific  Exchange  under the ticker symbol BEN and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker  symbol FKR. On September  30, 1997,  the closing  price of the
Company's  common stock on the NYSE was $93 1/8 per share.  At December 1, 1997,
there were approximately 2,500 shareholders of record. In addition,  the Company
estimates that there are  approximately  22,000  beneficial  shareholders  whose
shares are held in street name.

The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock from the NYSE  Composite  Tape. All sales prices have been adjusted
retroactively to reflect the Stock Dividend.


                                 1997 Fiscal Year             1996  Fiscal Year
Quarter                          High        Low            High        Low
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October-December               49 3/4      43 1/12         38 2/3      31 1/16
January-March                  71 7/8      48 3/4          39 5/12     30 11/12
April-June                     74 1/4      51 7/8          41 1/6      35 3/4
July-September                 93 9/16     72 5/8          45 3/4      34 1/2

The Company  declared  dividends of $0.34 per share in fiscal 1997 and $0.29 per
share in fiscal  1996.  The Company  expects to continue  paying  dividends on a
quarterly  basis to  common  stockholders  depending  upon  earnings  and  other
relevant factors.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Highlights


IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS


AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS
                         1997        1996        1995         1994        1993
ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Summary of Operations:
Operating revenues**   $2,163.3     $1,519.5    $1,253.3    $1,340.8    $1,175.5
Net income             $  434.1     $  314.7    $  268.9    $  251.3    $  175.5

Financial Data:
Total assets           $3,095.2     $2,374.2    $2,244.7    $1,968.8    $1,581.5
Long-term debt         $  493.2     $  399.5    $  382.4    $  383.7    $  454.8
Stockholders'
  equity               $1,854.2     $1,400.6    $1,161.0    $  930.8    $  720.4

Assets Under
  Management
(IN BILLIONS)          $  226.0     $  151.6    $   130.8   $  118.2    $  107.5

Per Common Share*
Earnings
 Primary               $  3.43      $  2.52     $  2.16     $  2.00     $   1.41

 Fully diluted         $  3.43      $  2.50     $  2.13     $  2.00     $   1.40

Cash dividends         $  0.34      $  0.29     $  0.27     $  0.21     $   0.19

Book value             $ 14.71      $ 11.63     $  9.56     $  7.60     $   5.85

* Prior year amounts have been restated to reflect the Stock Dividend.
** Prior year amounts have been restated to correspond to current year
   treatment.


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operation.


GENERAL

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
derive  substantially  all of  their  revenues  and net  income  from  providing
investment management, administration,  distribution and related services to the
Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series funds,  institutional  accounts and other
investment products (collectively,  "The Franklin Templeton Group"). The Company
has a diversified base of assets under management and a full range of investment
products and services to meet the needs of most individuals and institutions.

The  Company  offers  its  services  in  most  global  markets  including  Asia,
Australia,  Canada,  the  Caribbean,  Continental  Europe,  South Africa,  South
America,  the United Kingdom and the United  States.  At September 30, 1997, the
Company had offices in over 20 different nations, employing over 6,400 people.

On November 1, 1996,  the Company  acquired the assets and  liabilities of Heine
Securities Corporation ("Heine"), the former investment manager to Mutual Series
Fund Inc., other funds and private accounts  ("Mutual").  This transaction ("the
Acquisition")  had an  aggregate  value of  approximately  $616  million.  Heine
received  $551 million in cash and 1.1 million  shares of the  Company's  common
stock (before the effect of the  three-for-two  stock  dividend paid January 15,
1997)  that may not be sold for two years from the date of the  Acquisition  and
that are subject to other restrictions.






ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT



   BY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE,
   IN BILLIONS
   AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,                     1997           1996           1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Franklin Templeton Group
   FIXED-INCOME
   Tax-free                               $45.8          $42.5          $40.5
   U.S. government (primarily GNMAs)       15.1           15.8           16.3
   Taxable and tax-free money funds         3.7            3.7            3.6
   Global/international                     4.0            3.2            3.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total fixed-income                    68.6           65.2           63.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   EQUITY
   Global/international                   104.3           67.2           51.5
   U.S.                                    53.1           19.2           15.7
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Total equity                           157.4           86.4           67.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total Franklin Templeton Group      $226.0         $151.6         $130.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   BY INVESTMENT VEHICLE,
   IN BILLIONS
   AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,                     1997           1996           1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Franklin Templeton Group
   MUTUAL FUNDS
   Open-end                              $175.1         $113.7         $100.1
   Closed-end                               6.6            5.7            5.1
   Annuities                               13.6           10.9            8.8
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Total mutual funds                     195.3          130.3          114.0
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Institutional trusts and
    managed accounts                       30.7           21.3           16.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total Franklin Templeton Group      $226.0         $151.6         $130.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's  revenues are derived  largely from the amount and  composition of
assets under its management.

Assets under the  Company's  management  grew by $74.4  billion  (49%) and $20.8
billion (16%) in fiscal 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Equity assets grew at the
highest rate: 82% and 29%,  respectively,  and  represented 70% and 57% of total
assets under management  during these years. The  proportionately  higher growth
rate of equity  assets in 1997 was related to the effects of increased net sales
and market  appreciation  relative to other  categories.  The addition of Mutual
contributed  $28.4  billion to the 1997 growth in this  category.  Institutional
assets,  which  are  comprised  predominantly  of  global/international   equity
portfolios, grew 44% and 27% in 1997 and 1996, respectively. Fixed-income assets
grew 5% and 3% in 1997 and 1996, respectively.






RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  amounts included in
the  Consolidated  Statements  of Income of  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  and the
percentage change in those amounts from period to period.

Franklin Resources, Inc.
Consolidated Income Statement Data
IN MILLIONS,
EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA                                           PERCENT INCREASE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FOR THE YEARS ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30,
                                 1997        1996      1995     1997      1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING REVENUES
Investment
 management fees             $1,292.5      $880.8     $726.8      47%      21%
Underwriting and
 distribution fees              735.1       545.0      449.1      35%      21%
Shareholder servicing fees      124.9        88.7       68.7      41%      29%
Other, net                       10.8         5.0        8.7     116%     (43)%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating revenues    2,163.3     1,519.5     1,253.3     42%      21%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING EXPENSES
Underwriting and
 distribution                   712.3      518.1       406.1      37%      28%
Compensation and benefits       447.2      325.1       260.1      38%      25%
Information systems,
 technology and
 occupancy                      135.4       88.5        73.7      53%      20%
Advertising and promotion        96.6       71.7        70.1      35%       2%
Amortization of
 deferred sales commissions      59.5       24.2         5.9     146%     310%
Amortization of
 intangible assets               34.3       18.3        18.3      87%       --
Other                            86.5       56.5        51.0      53%      11%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating expenses    1,571.8    1,102.4        885.2     43%      25%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                591.5      417.1        368.1     42%      13%

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES)
Investment and other income      49.5       50.4         29.8     (2)%     69%
Interest expense                (25.3)     (11.3)       (11.2)   124%       1%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other income, net                24.2        39.1        18.6    (38)%    110%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes on income   615.7       456.2       386.7      35%     18%
Taxes on income                 181.6       141.5       117.8      28%     20%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net income                     $434.1      $314.7      $268.9      38%     17%
==============================================================================

OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN           27%         27%        29%      --        --
Earnings per share
 Primary                       $3.43       $2.52       $2.16      36%      17%
 Fully diluted                 $3.43       $2.50       $2.13      37%      17%

Revenues,  net income and earnings  per share rose to the highest  levels in the
Company's  history.  Net income and fully  diluted  earnings  per share for 1997
increased  by  38%  and  37%,  respectively,  driven  principally  by  increased
investment  management fee revenues.  Net income and earnings per share for 1996
increased 17%, primarily as a result of a 21% increase in investment  management
fee revenues.

OPERATING REVENUES

Investment  management  fees are derived  primarily from  contractual  fixed-fee
arrangements  that are  based  upon the level of assets  under  management  with
open-end and closed-end investment companies and institutional portfolios. Under
various  investment  management  agreements,  annual  rates  vary and  generally
decline as the average net assets of the  portfolios  exceed  certain  threshold
levels.  The majority of fund  investment  management  contracts  are subject to
periodic approval by each fund's Board of  Directors/Trustees  and shareholders.
There  have  been  no  significant  changes  in the  investment  management  fee
structures for the Franklin Templeton funds in the periods under review.

Investment  management  fees  increased  47% and 21% in  fiscal  1997 and  1996,
respectively.  Management  fees grew at a faster rate than average  assets under
management  in both  1997  and 1996 as a result  of a shift  in  composition  of
average  assets under  management  to  higher-fee  equity funds during the years
under consideration.

Underwriting commission fees are earned primarily from fund sales.  Distribution
fees are generally based on the level of assets under management.  Most sales of
Franklin  Templeton  funds  include  a  sales  commission  which  is paid to the
Company.  Certain  subsidiaries  of the  Company  act as  distributors  for  its
sponsored funds and receive  distribution fees from those funds in reimbursement
for  distribution  expenses  incurred.  A  significant  portion of  underwriting
commission and distribution fee revenues are paid to selling intermediaries.

Underwriting  and  distribution  fees  increased  35% and 21% in 1997 and  1996,
respectively, largely due to increased fund sales which were partially offset by
a decrease  in  effective  commission  rates.  Effective  commission  rates have
declined  as  relative  sales of  products  with  lower  commission  rates  have
increased.

Shareholder  servicing  fees are generally  fixed charges per account which vary
with the particular type of fund and the service being rendered.

Shareholder servicing fees increased 41% and 29% in 1997 and 1996, respectively.
The increases were a result of an increase in fund shareholder accounts, as well
as an increase in the average per account  charge.  During the second quarter of
1997, the average annual per account charge was increased for  approximately 120
of the Company's U.S. registered funds.

Other  revenues,  net consist  primarily of the revenues from the Company's bank
and  finance  subsidiaries,  which  are shown net of  interest  expense  and the
provision  for loan  losses.  Other  revenues,  net  increased  116% in 1997 and
decreased 43% in 1996. The increase in 1997 resulted  primarily from  decreasing
loss and delinquency trends at the Company's bank and finance subsidiaries.  The
past due rate at the end of 1997 was 3.2%  compared  to 4.0% at the end of 1996.
Actual gross  charge-offs  decreased  43% in 1997  compared to a 24% increase in
1996, reflecting the Company's more stringent underwriting policies and improved
collection efforts.






OPERATING EXPENSES

Underwriting and distribution  includes sales  commissions and distribution fees
paid to brokers and other third-party intermediaries. During both 1997 and 1996,
underwriting and  distribution  expenses  increased  consistent with mutual fund
sales.

Compensation and benefits increased 38% and 25% in 1997 and 1996,  respectively,
reflecting an increase in the number of full-time employees, the Acquisition and
increased  contributions  to the Company's  Annual Incentive Plan that are based
upon the Company's  profitability.  The number of full-time  employees increased
30% and 9% in 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  as the Company  continued to expand
its operations and as a result of the Acquisition.

Information  systems,  technology  and occupancy  increased in 1997 due to costs
related to the integration of systems related to the Acquisition,  several major
system implementations, as well as upgrades to our network, desktop and Internet
environments.  The  growth  in this  area in 1996 was in line  with the  general
growth in the Company.  The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of
Year 2000 issues on its global computer  systems and  applications.  The Company
expects to incur  internal  staff costs as well as consulting  and other related
expenses.  At this time,  management  believes  that the costs  associated  with
resolving  these  issues  will  not  have a  material  impact  on the  Company's
financial statements.

Advertising  and  promotion  expenses  increased  35% and 2% in 1997  and  1996,
respectively.  The 1997  increase was due to  marketing  and  promotion  efforts
related to the Mutual Series funds and other promotional activities.

Amortization of deferred sales  commissions  increased 146% and 310% in 1997 and
1996,  respectively,  primarily  as a  result  of the  increase  in Class II and
Canadian fund sales.

Amortization of intangibles increased in 1997 as a result of the Acquisition.

Other expenses  increased in 1997 due to costs  associated with the Acquisition,
as well as general growth of the Company.  Other expenses  increased in 1996 due
to general growth of the Company.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES)

Investment  income  declined in 1997 as a result of the sale of a portion of the
Company's investment portfolio that was used to fund the Acquisition. Investment
and other  income  increased  in 1996 as a result  of  increases  in  investment
assets,  as well as  approximately  $17 million in capital gains realized on the
Acquisition-related sale of investments at the end of 1996.

Interest  expense  increased in 1997 due to a $221.0 million increase in amounts
outstanding  under the  Company's  commercial  paper  lines  and a $100  million
increase in notes payable (medium-term notes) outstanding, partially offset by a
$150 million reduction in subordinated debentures.






TAXES ON INCOME

The Company's  effective tax rate has remained relatively stable at 30%, 31% and
30% in 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The  Company's  effective  tax rate
differs from the U.S.  statutory  rate  primarily due to the Company's  non-U.S.
subsidiaries'  relative  contributions  to taxable income.  The Company does not
provide U.S. taxes on these earnings to the extent they have been reinvested for
an  indefinite  period  of time.  The  effective  tax rate will  continue  to be
reflective of the relative  contribution of foreign earnings,  which are subject
to reduced tax rates and are not currently  included in U.S. taxable income. The
Company is currently  reviewing  the effect of the Taxpayer  Relief Act of 1997.
This Act may cause a change in the effective tax rate for future periods.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

At September 30, 1997, the Company's  assets  aggregated  $3.1 billion,  up from
$2.4  billion  a year  earlier,  primarily  as a result of the  Acquisition  and
reinvested net income.  Stockholders'  equity  increased to  approximately  $1.9
billion at  September  30,  1997  compared  to $1.4  billion at the end of 1996,
primarily  as a result of net income and the  issuance  of shares in  connection
with the Acquisition.  Outstanding debt (long-term and short-term)  increased by
$211.7 million to $611.6 million at September 30, 1997,  principally as a result
of the Acquisition.  However,  the Company's ratio of earnings (before taxes) to
fixed charges  (interest  and the interest  factor on rent) remains high at 12.0
for 1997  compared  to 11.1 for 1996.  The  Company's  interest  coverage  ratio
(pretax income before interest expense divided by interest  expense) is 14.2 for
1997 as  compared  to 13.4 for 1996.  The  Company's  overall  weighted  average
interest rate at September 30, 1997,  including the effect of interest-rate swap
agreements, was 6.3% on $569.7 million of outstanding commercial paper and notes
payable  (medium-term  notes) as  compared  to 6.53% on $398.7  million  of debt
outstanding at September 30, 1996.

Cash provided by operating  activities  increased to $428.5  million in 1997, up
from $359.6  million and $296.5 million in 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  During
the year ended  September 30, 1997,  the Company used net cash of $593.4 million
for investing activities,  of which $550.7 million was for the Acquisition.  Net
cash  provided  by  financing  activities  during the year was  $105.5  million,
primarily  as a result of the  issuance of $416.4  million in notes  payable and
commercial  paper,  which was partially  offset by payments on debt  aggregating
$128.8  million and the purchase of option  rights  related to the  subordinated
debentures of $91.7 million (see Note 8 of Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements).  During  fiscal  year  1997,  the  Company  paid  $40.4  million in
dividends to stockholders  and purchased  313,000 shares of its common stock for
$19.1 million.

The Company's  auto loan and credit card  receivables  business  activities  are
subject  to  fluctuations  in  those  consumer  market  places,  as  well  as to
competition from companies with much larger receivable portfolios. Auto loan and
credit card portfolio results can also be influenced  significantly by trends in
the economy and credit markets that may negatively impact borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.  Credit card and auto loans  receivable  decreased from 1996 levels
due to net paydowns of existing  loans.  As a result of its  improved  auto loan
collection efforts and enhanced systems supporting those activities, the Company
has experienced a decrease in delinquency  rates and loan losses since September
30, 1996. Any future  increases in the Company's  investment in dealer auto loan
and credit card  portfolios  are expected to be funded either  through  existing
debt  facilities  and operating  cash flows or through the  securitization  of a
portion of the portfolios.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At  September  30,  1997,  the  Company  held liquid  assets of $889.7  million,
including  $442.7  million of cash and cash  equivalents,  as compared to $889.9
million and $502.2  million,  respectively,  at September  30,  1996.  Revolving
credit  facilities at September 30, 1997  aggregated  $500 million of which $200
million  was under a 364-day  revolving  credit  facility.  The  remaining  $300
million  revolving  facility  has a  five-year  term.  At  September  30,  1997,
approximately   $548.5  million  was  available  to  the  Company  under  unused
commercial paper and medium-term note facilities.

Management  expects that the principal needs for cash in the coming year will be
to  advance   sales   commissions,   fund   increased   property  and  equipment
acquisitions,  pay  shareholder  dividends,  repurchase  shares of the Company's
common stock and service debt.  Management  believes that the Company's existing
liquid assets,  together with the expected continuing cash flow from operations,
its borrowing  capacity under current credit facilities and its ability to issue
stock will be sufficient  to meet its present and  reasonably  foreseeable  cash
requirements.

Results of  operations  will  continue to be  dependent  upon  general  economic
growth,  the  strength  of capital  markets  and the  Company's  ability to meet
investor demands with competitive products and services. Operating revenues will
be dependent upon the amount and composition of assets under management,  mutual
fund sales, and the number of mutual fund investors,  private and  institutional
clients.  Operating costs are expected to increase with the Company's  continued
expansion, the increase in competition and the Company's continued commitment to
improving its products and services.

Despite the Company's global presence,  its exposure to adverse  fluctuations in
foreign currency markets is limited because a substantial portion of its foreign
subsidiaries'  revenues and the majority of their  monetary  assets are U.S. and
Canadian dollar  denominated.  Over 95% of the Company's operating revenues were
earned in U.S.  and  Canadian  dollars in both 1997 and 1996.  Accordingly,  the
Company  has not deemed it  necessary  to enter into  foreign  currency  hedging
transactions.

The Company  participates  in the  financial  derivatives  markets to manage its
exposure to interest-rate fluctuations on a portion of its commercial paper. The
Company has entered  into  interest-rate  swap  agreements  to convert  interest
payment  obligations under variable-rate debt instruments to fixed-rate interest
payment obligations.  Through  interest-rate swap agreements and its medium-term
note  program,  the  Company  has fixed the rates of  interest it pays on 84% of
outstanding debt (see Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).




Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index of  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for the years ended  September 30,
1997, 1996 and 1995.

CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

                                                                    Pages

Report of Independent Accountants

Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended
   September 30, 1997, 1996, and 1995

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   September 30, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity,
   for the years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
   for the years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


  All  schedules  have  been  omitted  as the  information  is  provided  in the
financial  statements or in related notes thereto or is not required to be filed
as the information is not applicable.





                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  Franklin
Resources,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of September  30, 1997 and 1996,  and the
related consolidated  statements of income,  stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  September  30,  1997.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all  material  respects,   the  consolidated   financial  position  of  Franklin
Resources,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of September  30, 1997 and 1996,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 1997, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.


Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
San Francisco, California

October 22, 1997











     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



 IN THOUSANDS,
 EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA
 FOR THE YEARS ENDED
 SEPTEMBER 30,                              1997           1996          1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 OPERATING REVENUES
 Investment management fees             $1,292,488       $880,684      $726,719
 Underwriting and distribution fees        735,112        545,039       449,141
 Shareholder servicing fees                124,905         88,715        68,701
 Other, net                                 10,770          5,035         8,703
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating revenues              2,163,275      1,519,473     1,253,264
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 OPERATING EXPENSES
 Underwriting and distribution             712,328        518,122       406,100
 Compensation and benefits                 447,169        325,135       260,097
 Information systems, technology
  and occupancy                            135,391         88,500        73,697
 Advertising and promotion                  96,552         71,655        70,138
 Amortization of deferred sales
  commissions                               59,468         24,237         5,894
 Amortization of intangible assets          34,294         18,348        18,305
 Other                                      86,613         56,368        50,892
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating expenses              1,571,815      1,102,365       885,123
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 OPERATING INCOME                          591,460        417,108       368,141
 Other income (expenses)
 Investment and other income                49,586         50,458        29,673
 Interest expense                          (25,333)       (11,336)      (11,159)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 OTHER INCOME, NET                          24,253         39,122        18,514
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Income before taxes on income             615,713        456,230       386,655
 Taxes on income                           181,650        141,500       117,710
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Net income                               $434,063       $314,730      $268,945
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Earnings per Share
  Primary                                    $3.43          $2.52         $2.16
  Fully diluted                              $3.43          $2.50         $2.13

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



 IN THOUSANDS
 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,                               1997           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Assets
 CURRENT ASSETS
 Cash and cash equivalents                       $434,864       $483,975
 Receivables
  Fees from Franklin Templeton funds              213,547        133,453
  Other                                            20,315         54,727
 Investment securities, available-for-sale        189,674        174,156
 Prepaid expenses and other                        20,039          9,952
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total current assets                           878,439        856,263
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 BANKING/FINANCE ASSETS
 Cash and cash equivalents                          7,877         18,214
 Loans receivable, net                            296,188        345,399
 Investment securities, available-for-sale         24,232         25,325
 Other                                              3,739          4,660
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total banking/finance assets                   332,036        393,598
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 OTHER ASSETS
 Deferred sales commissions                       119,537         24,316
 Property and equipment, net                      217,085        161,613
 Intangible assets, net                         1,224,019        641,983
 Receivable from banking/finance group            203,787        236,532
 Other                                            120,297         59,862
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total other assets                           1,884,725      1,124,306
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total assets                              $3,095,200     $2,374,167
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



  IN THOUSANDS
  AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,                                     1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
  CURRENT LIABILITIES
  Compensation and benefits                           $154,222       $77,935
  Commissions                                           46,125        28,067
  Income taxes                                          31,908        27,673
  Short-term debt                                      118,372           427
  Other                                                 54,873        48,099
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                          405,500       182,201
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  BANKING/FINANCE LIABILITIES
  Deposits
   Interest bearing                                     91,433       125,124
   Non-interest bearing                                  6,971         6,095
  Payable to Parent                                    203,787       236,532
  Other                                                  2,213         1,725
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total banking/finance liabilities                  304,404       369,476
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  OTHER LIABILITIES
  Long-term debt                                       493,244       399,462
  Other                                                 37,831        22,437
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total other liabilities                            531,075       421,899
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities                              1,240,979       973,576
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Commitments and Contingencies (Note 11)

  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

  Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 1,000,000 shares
  authorized; none issued                                   --            --
  Common stock, $.10 par value, 500,000,000 shares
   authorized; 126,230,916 and 82,264,982 shares
   issued; and 126,031,900 and 80,272,131 shares
   outstanding, for 1997 and 1996, respectively         12,623         8,226
  Capital in excess of par value                        91,207       101,226
  Retained earnings                                  1,757,536     1,370,513
  Less cost of treasury stock                          (11,070)      (90,301)
  Other                                                  3,925        10,927
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                       1,854,221     1,400,591
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity    $3,095,200    $2,374,167
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.











NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
derive  substantially  all of  their  revenues  and net  income  from  providing
investment management, administration,  distribution and related services to the
Franklin Templeton funds,  institutional  accounts and other investment products
that  operate  in the United  States,  Canada,  Europe  and other  international
markets under  various rules and  regulations  set forth by the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission, individual state agencies and foreign governments. Services
to the Franklin  Templeton funds are provided under contracts that  definitively
set forth the fees to be  charged  for these  services.  The  majority  of these
contracts  are subject to periodic  review and  approval by each fund's Board of
Directors/Trustees  and shareholders.  Currently,  no fund's revenues  represent
more than 10% of total revenues.  Company revenues are largely  dependent on the
total value and composition of assets under  management,  which include U.S. and
international equity and debt portfolios. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial
markets and in the  composition of assets under  management  impact revenues and
results of operations.

Basis of  Presentation.  The consolidated  financial  statements are prepared in
accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles which require the use
of estimates  made by the  Company's  management.  Certain 1996 and 1995 amounts
have been reclassified to conform to 1997 presentation.

The  consolidated   financial   statements  include  the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries.  All material inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated except the inter-company  payable
from the banking/finance group to the parent to fund auto and credit card loans.
Operating revenues of the banking/finance  group are included in Other revenues,
net and are presented net of related interest expense and the provision for loan
losses.  Accordingly,   reported  interest  expense  excludes  interest  expense
attributable to the banking/finance group.

Cash and Cash  Equivalents  include cash on hand,  demand deposits with banks or
other high credit quality financial institutions, debt instruments with original
maturities  of  three  months  or less  and  other  highly  liquid  investments,
including money market funds,  which are readily  convertible  into cash. Due to
the  relatively  short-term  nature of these  instruments,  the  carrying  value
approximates fair value.

Investment Securities, available for sale are carried at fair value. Fair values
for  investments in Franklin  Templeton funds are based on the last reported net
asset value.  Fair values for other  investments  are based on the last reported
price on the  exchange  on which they are traded.  Investments  not traded on an
exchange are carried at management's estimate of fair value.

Realized gains and losses are included in investment  income  currently based on
specific identification.  Unrealized gains and losses are reported net of tax as
a separate component of stockholders' equity until realized.

Derivative Instruments. The Company enters into interest-rate swap agreements to
manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest  rates.  Under these  agreements
the Company agrees to exchange,  at specified intervals,  the difference between
fixed- and  variable-interest  amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon
notional  principal  amount.  The interest-rate  differential  between the fixed
pay-rate and the variable receive-rate is reflected as an adjustment to interest
expense  over  the  life of the  swaps.  The  Company  does  not  hold or  issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Loans  Receivable.  Interest on auto  installment  loans is accrued  principally
using the rule of 78s method,  which approximates the interest method.  Interest
on all other loans is accrued using the simple interest method. An allowance for
loan losses is  established  monthly based on historical  experience,  including
delinquency  and loss  trends.  A loan is  charged to the  allowance  when it is
deemed  to  be  uncollectible,  taking  into  consideration  the  value  of  the
collateral,   the  financial  condition  of  the  borrower  and  other  factors.
Recoveries on loans previously  charged off as uncollectible are credited to the
allowance for loan losses.

Deferred Sales Commissions.  Sales commissions paid to financial  intermediaries
in  connection  with the sale of  certain  share  classes of  open-end  Franklin
Templeton funds are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over periods
ranging from eighteen months to six years.

Property  and  Equipment  are  recorded  at  cost  and  are  depreciated  on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the  straight-line  basis over their estimated  useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

Intangible Assets,  consisting principally of the estimated value of mutual fund
management  contracts and goodwill resulting from the acquisitions of the assets
of Templeton and Heine Securities Corporation,  are being amortized over various
lives  ranging  from 5 to 40 years.  The Company  has  evaluated  the  potential
impairment  of its  intangible  assets  on the  basis  of  the  expected  future
operating  cash  flows to be  derived  from  these  assets  in  relation  to the
Company's  carrying  values  and has  determined  that  there is no  impairment.
Periodically,  the Company  reviews the carrying value of its intangible  assets
for potential impairment.

Recognition of Revenues. Investment management fees, shareholder servicing fees,
investment   income  and  distribution   fees  are  all  recognized  as  earned.
Underwriting  commissions  related to the sale of Franklin Templeton mutual fund
shares are recorded on the trade date.

Advertising  and Promotion.  Costs of advertising  and promotion are expensed as
the advertising appears in the media.

Foreign Currency Translation. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are
translated at current exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and
related revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect
during the period.  Net exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are
excluded from income and are recorded as a separate  component of  stockholders'
equity.  Foreign currency  transaction  gains and losses are reflected in income
currently.

Dividends. During the years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company
declared dividends to common stockholders of $.34, $.29 and $.27, respectively.

All common shares and per share  amounts have been adjusted to give  retroactive
effect to a  three-for-two  stock dividend paid January 15, 1997 to shareholders
of record on December 31, 1996.  Stockholders'  equity as of September  30, 1996
and 1995 has not been restated.

Earnings per Share are  computed by dividing net income by the weighted  average
number of  shares  of common  stock  and  common  stock  equivalents  considered
outstanding  during each year. The weighted  average number of shares and common
stock  equivalents  used in computing  earnings per share in 1997, 1996 and 1995
were  126,715,000,  124,970,000  and  124,671,000  for primary and  126,733,000,
125,642,000 and 126,047,000 for fully diluted, respectively.


Note 2   ACQUISITION

On November 1, 1996,  the Company  acquired the assets and  liabilities of Heine
Securities Corporation ("Heine"), the former investment manager to Mutual Series
Fund Inc., other funds and private accounts  ("Mutual").  The transaction had an
aggregate value of  approximately  $616 million.  Heine received $551 million in
cash and 1.1 million shares of the Company's  common stock (before the effect of
the  three-for-two  stock dividend  declared  December 31, 1996) that may not be
sold for two years  from the date of the  Acquisition  and that are  subject  to
other  restrictions.  Pursuant to the terms of the  acquisition  agreement,  the
shareholder  of Heine  invested  $150 million of the cash proceeds in Mutual and
agreed to  maintain a minimum  balance of $100  million  for five years from the
date of the  Acquisition.  In addition to the base purchase price,  the purchase
agreement  also  provides for  contingent  payments to Heine ranging from $96.25
million to $192.5 million under certain conditions if certain agreed-upon growth
targets are met.  The  Acquisition  has been  accounted  for using the  purchase
method of accounting.

Note 3   INVESTMENT SECURITIES



Investment  securities,  available-for-sale  at  September  30,  1997  and  1996
consisted of the following:

                           AMORTIZED         GROSS UNREALIZED           FAIR
IN THOUSANDS                 COST         GAINS         LOSSES         VALUE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Franklin Templeton
 funds                   $151,726       $21,552            --        $173,278
Debt                       33,176           341         $(134)         33,383
Equities                    5,853         1,414           (79)          7,188
Other                          51             6            --              57
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         $190,806       $23,313         $(213)       $213,906
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        AMORTIZED           GROSS UNREALIZED           FAIR
IN THOUSANDS               COST           GAINS         LOSSES         VALUE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Franklin Templeton
 funds                   $116,146       $12,993            --        $129,139
Debt                       36,108           278          $(91)         36,295
Equities                    1,578         2,332           (61)          3,849
Other                      30,178            20            --          30,198
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         $184,010       $15,623         $(152)       $199,481
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At September 30, 1997, maturities of debt securities were as follows:

                                                             ESTIMATED
IN THOUSANDS                                       COST     FAIR VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Due in one year or less                         $14,063       $14,087
Due after one year through three years           15,381        15,465
Due after three years                             3,732         3,831
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                $33,176       $33,383
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Note 4            BANKING/FINANCE GROUP LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

 Activity of the banking/finance group's loans and allowance for loan losses for
 the years ended September 30, 1997 and 1996 was as follows:

                                                               NET
                                                             CHARGE
IN THOUSANDS         1996    ADDITIONS       PAYDOWNS         OFFS       1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto             $284,141      $92,708     $(131,058)      $(6,436)    $239,355
Credit Card        87,527       21,622       (29,974)         (927)      78,248
Other               6,387          506        (2,736)         (165)       3,992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  378,055      114,836      (163,768)       (7,528)     321,595
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unearned fees
 and discounts    (23,092)      (7,400)       13,645                    (16,847)
Allowance for
  loan losses      (9,564)      (6,524)                      7,528       (8,560)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Loans
     receivable,
      net        $345,399     $100,912     $(150,123)            --    $296,188
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                NET
                                                             CHARGE
IN THOUSANDS         1995    ADDITIONS       PAYDOWNS          OFFS        1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto             $400,867      $62,840     $(165,380)     $(14,186)    $284,141
Credit Card        95,040       39,846       (45,476)       (1,883)      87,527
Other               6,000          846          (320)         (139)       6,387
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  501,907      103,532      (211,176)      (16,208)     378,055
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unearned fees
  and discounts   (42,813)      (6,900)       26,621                    (23,092)
Allowance for
  loan losses      (9,081)     (16,691)                     16,208       (9,564)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans
  receivable,
        net      $450,013      $79,941     $(184,555)            --    $345,399
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

     For the years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the interest expense
     of the banking/finance group included in other operating revenues,  net was
     $21.2 million, $25.6 million and $28.6 million, respectively.

     At  September  30, 1996 and 1995,  the carrying  value of loans  receivable
     approximated  fair  value.  The fair value of consumer  loans is  estimated
     using  interest  rates that  consider the current  credit and interest rate
     risk inherent in the loans and current economic and lending conditions.

     At  September  30,  1997  and  1996,   the  carrying   values  of  deposits
     approximated  fair  value.  The fair  values  of the  banking  subsidiary's
     deposit amounts payable on demand at the reporting date are estimated using
     interest rates  currently  offered on time deposits with similar  remaining
     maturities.





Note 5   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

 The  following is a summary of property and equipment at September 30, 1997 and
1996:

                                      USEFUL LIVES
 IN THOUSANDS                          IN YEARS               1997        1996
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Furniture and equipment                    3-5           $181,173    $114,228
 Premises and leasehold improvements       5-35            101,299      92,493
 Leased equipment                             5              6,860       2,451
 Land                                        --             24,722      23,811
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           314,054     232,983
 Less: Accumulated depreciation and
        amortization                                       (96,969)    (71,370)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          $217,085    $161,613
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Note 6   INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following is a summary of intangible assets at September 30, 1997 and 1996:

                                 AMORTIZATION
IN THOUSANDS                   PERIOD IN YEARS              1997        1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Goodwill and management
 contracts                                  40         $1,300,793    $716,010
Other intangibles                         5-15             31,546          --
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1,332,339     716,010
Accumulated amortization                                 (108,320)    (74,027)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       $1,224,019    $641,983
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------





Note 7            SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company conducts operations in five principal geographic areas of the world:
the U.S., Canada, the Bahamas,  Europe and Asia/Pacific.  Revenues by geographic
area  include  fees and  commissions  charged to  customers  and fees charged to
affiliates.  Identifiable  assets  are  those  assets  used  exclusively  in the
operations of each geographic area.

Information is summarized below:






Summarized below are the business segments:

 IN THOUSANDS                                              OPERATING
                         IDENTIFIABLE                       INCOME/
 1997                          ASSETS       REVENUES        (LOSS)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Investment management     $1,746,827     $2,152,505      $598,154
 Banking/finance              332,036          8,617        (5,102)
 Real estate                    7,969          2,153        (1,592)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Company totals            $2,086,832     $2,163,275      $591,460
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Investment management     $1,124,229     $1,514,438      $429,348
 Banking/finance              393,598          3,179       (11,090)
 Real estate                   11,379          1,856        (1,150)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Company totals             $1,529,206     $1,519,473      $417,108
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Investment management       $958,200     $1,244,561      $379,288
 Banking/finance              496,059          6,841       (10,217)
 Real estate                    9,370          1,862          (930)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Company totals             $1,463,629     $1,253,264      $368,141
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  investment  management  segment's  assets  are  primarily  intangibles  and
receivables   from,  and   investments  in,  Franklin   Templeton   funds.   The
banking/finance   segment's  assets  are  primarily  investment  securities  and
consumer loans.

Note 8   DEBT

Debt at September 30, 1997 and 1996 was as follows:


                                1997 WEIGHTED
IN THOUSANDS               AVERAGE INTEREST RATE       1997           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHORT-TERM DEBT
Commercial paper                  6.26%             $51,500             --
Notes payable                     6.63%              60,000             --
Other                               --                6,872           $427
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total short-term debt                            $118,372           $427
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM DEBT
Commercial paper issued under
long-term borrowing agreements    6.26%            $298,245       $128,731
Notes payable                     6.36%             160,000        120,000
Subordinated debentures              --                  --        150,000
Other                                                34,999            731
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total long-term debt                             $493,244       $399,462
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------









As of September 30, 1997, maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

                            IN THOUSANDS
                            1998                      $298,245
                            1999                        56,612
                            2000                        56,612
                            2001                        66,612
                            2002                         6,612
                            Thereafter                   8,551
                            ----------------------------------
                                                      $493,244
                            ----------------------------------

The Company has a revolving  credit  agreement with a group of commercial  banks
that will allow it, at its option,  to refinance the commercial  paper for up to
five years from the closing date, May 16, 1997. In accordance with the Company's
intention  and ability to  refinance  these  obligations  on a long-term  basis,
$298.2  million of commercial  paper at September  30, 1997 has been  classified
long-term.   The  credit  agreements  include  various  restrictive   covenants,
including:  a capitalization  ratio,  interest  coverage ratio,  minimum working
capital and limitation on additional  debt.  The Company was in compliance  with
all covenants as of September 30, 1997. At September 30, 1997, amounts available
for issuance under the Company's commercial paper program were $148.5 million.

At September 30, 1997, the Company had  interest-rate  swap agreements  maturing
through October 2000 which  effectively  fixed interest rates on $295 million of
commercial  paper.  These financial  instruments are placed with major financial
institutions.   The   creditworthiness  of  the  counterparties  is  subject  to
continuous  review and full performance is anticipated.  Any potential loss from
failure  of the  counterparties  to  perform  is  deemed to be  immaterial.  The
following  table presents  information for  outstanding  interest-rate  swaps at
September 30, 1997:


   IN THOUSANDS
   MATURING IN THE YEARS
   ENDING SEPTEMBER 30,              1999           2000          2001
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Notional amounts              $165,000        $40,000       $90,000
   Fair value                     $(1,215)         $(563)      $(1,215)
   Carrying value                   $(168)          $(65)        $(133)
   Weighted average receive rate     5.53%          5.56%         5.56%
   Weighted average pay rate         6.36%          6.52%         6.43%


Notes payable  represents  the  Company's  participation  in a medium-term  note
program.  Notes  totaling  $100 million and $120 million were issued during 1997
and 1996,  respectively,  with interest rates ranging from 6.02% to 6.63%. These
notes mature at various  times from 1998 through  2001.  At September  30, 1997,
amounts available for issuance under the Company's medium-term note program were
$400 million.

On November 26, 1996,  the holders of the option rights related to the Company's
subordinated  debentures exercised their option rights to receive  approximately
2.4 million shares of the Company's common stock in return for approximately $75
million  of  the  subordinated  debentures.  The  holders  of  the  subordinated
debentures  also  agreed to sell to the  Company  the  remaining  option  rights
representing  an additional 2.4 million  shares,  and to surrender the remaining
$75 million of debentures plus accrued interest for cash of  approximately  $170
million.  This  transaction was financed through the issuance of $100 million in
medium-term  notes  referred to above and through cash on hand. No material gain
or loss was recognized on this transaction.

At September 30, 1997 and 1996,  the fair value of long-term  debt  approximated
its  carrying  value.  The fair values of  long-term  debt are  estimated  using
interest rates currently  offered to the Company for debt with similar remaining
maturities.

Note 9   INVESTMENT INCOME



 IN THOUSANDS                  1997           1996          1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Dividends                   $14,141        $15,683       $12,873
 Interest                     16,105         16,787        12,029
 Realized gains, net          15,563         17,271         2,499
 Foreign exchange gains
  (losses), net                2,245           (394)         (355)
 Other                         1,532          1,111         2,627
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             $49,586        $50,458       $29,673
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Substantially all of the Company's  dividend income was generated by investments
in the Franklin Templeton funds.






Note 10  TAXES ON INCOME

Taxes on income  for the years  ended  September  30,  1997,  1996 and 1995 were
comprised of the following:


 IN THOUSANDS                         1997           1996           1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Current
   Federal                        $122,361        $98,803        $76,350
   State                            33,874         23,118         19,969
   Foreign                          26,637         25,558         20,018
 Deferred (benefit) expense         (1,222)        (5,979)         1,373
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total provision                $181,650       $141,500       $117,710
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Included in income before taxes was $358.9  million,  $225.7  million and $161.7
million,  of foreign  income for the years ended  September  30, 1997,  1996 and
1995, respectively.

The major  components of the net deferred tax asset as of September 30, 1997 and
1996 were as follows:

 IN THOUSANDS                                              1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
 State taxes expensed currently, deductible
   in following year                                     $6,844        $6,608
 Temporary differences on investment losses               1,974         2,124
 Loan loss reserves                                       3,850         3,760
 Deferred compensation                                    3,442         1,983
 Restricted stock compensation plan                      34,933        20,016
 Net operating loss carryforwards                        27,510        18,203
 Other                                                    8,256         5,077
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total deferred tax assets                             86,809        57,771
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Valuation allowance for net
  operating loss carryforwards                          (27,510)      (18,203)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Deferred tax assets, net of
   valuation allowance                                   59,299        39,568
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
 Temporary differences on partnership earnings           $4,774        $5,504
 Capitalized compensation costs                           6,728         7,503
 Net unrealized gains on securities                       8,967         4,622
 Depreciation on fixed assets                            11,384         6,244
 Prepaid expenses                                        15,419         6,019
 Other                                                    9,233         1,315
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                        56,505        31,207
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net deferred tax asset                              $2,794        $8,361
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At September  30, 1997,  there were  approximately  $28.2 million of foreign net
operating loss carryforwards of which approximately $13.0 million expire between
1999 and 2005 and the remaining have an indefinite life. In addition,  there are
approximately  $288.5  million in state net operating  loss  carryforwards  that
expire  between  2006 and 2012. A valuation  allowance  has been  recognized  to
offset the related  deferred tax assets due to the  uncertainty of realizing the
benefit of the loss carryforwards.

A substantial  portion of the  undistributed  earnings of the Company's  foreign
subsidiaries has been reinvested for an indefinite period of time.  Accordingly,
no U.S. federal or state income taxes have been provided  thereon.  At September
30, 1997,  the  cumulative  amount of reinvested  income for which no U.S. taxes
have been provided was approximately  $588 million.  Determination of the amount
of  the  unrecognized  deferred  U.S.  income  tax  liability  related  to  such
reinvested  income  is  not  practicable  because  of the  numerous  assumptions
associated  with this  hypothetical  calculation;  however,  foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.

The  following  is a  reconciliation  between  the amount of tax  expense at the
federal  statutory  rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations  for the
years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively:

IN THOUSANDS                                 1997           1996          1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. federal statutory rate                 35.0%          35.0%         35.0%
Federal taxes at statutory rate          $215,500       $159,786      $135,329
State taxes, net of federal tax effect     21,099         18,167        12,747
Foreign earnings subject to
reduced tax rates for which
no U.S. tax is provided                   (69,973)       (43,159)      (32,956)
Other                                      15,024          6,706         2,590

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Actual tax provision                     $181,650       $141,500      $117,710

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective tax rate                          29.5%          31.0%         30.4%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Note 11  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The  Company  leases  office  space  (including  space  from  an  unconsolidated
affiliate) and equipment  under long-term  operating  leases expiring at various
dates through fiscal year 2017. Lease expense  aggregated  $27.6 million,  $24.3
million and $21.8 million for the fiscal years ended  September  30, 1997,  1996
and 1995, respectively.

At September 30, 1997, future minimum lease payments under operating leases were
as follows:

                           IN THOUSANDS
                           1998                        $22,958
                           1999                         20,900
                           2000                         16,645
                           2001                          7,169
                           2002                          2,893
                           Thereafter                   13,109
                           -----------------------------------
                                                       $83,674
                           -----------------------------------

At September 30, 1997, the Company's  banking/finance  group had  commitments to
extend credit  aggregating  $390.9  million,  principally  under its credit card
lines.

The Company  through certain  subsidiaries  acts as fiduciary for retirement and
employee  benefit  plans.  At  September  30,  1997,  assets  held in trust were
approximately $20.1 billion.

The  Company is  involved in various  claims and legal  proceedings  of a nature
considered  normal to its  business.  While it is not  feasible  to  predict  or
determine the final outcome of these  proceedings,  management  does not believe
that  they  should  result  in a  materially  adverse  effect  on the  Company's
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Note 12  EMPLOYEE STOCK AWARD AND OPTION PLANS

The Company sponsors an Annual Incentive Plan which provides eligible  employees
payment of both cash and restricted  stock. The costs associated with the Annual
Incentive Plan awards are charged to income currently.

In December 1993, the Company  adopted a Universal  Stock Plan providing for the
issuance  of  up  to 3  million  shares  of  the  Company's  stock  for  various
stock-related  awards  including  restricted  stock  and  stock  options.  As of
September  30, 1997,  the Company had  approximately  892,000  shares  remaining
available for grant under the Universal Stock Plan.  Terms and conditions  under
the option  plans  (including  price,  exercise  date and number of shares)  are
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.  Information
regarding the option plans for the fiscal years ending  September 30, 1997, 1996
and 1995 is as follows:


 FOR THE YEARS ENDED
 SEPTEMBER 30,                  1997                1996                1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              WEIGHTED            WEIGHTED             WEIGHTED
                               AVERAGE             AVERAGE              AVERAGE
                              EXERCISE            EXERCISE             EXERCISE
 SHARES IN THOUSANDS  SHARES     PRICE    SHARES     PRICE     SHARES     PRICE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Outstanding,
   beginning
   of year               282    $21.42       325   $18.12        250    $15.06
 Granted                  39    $44.29        36   $37.63        103    $25.04
 Exercised              (154)   $17.50       (79)  $15.31        (28)   $20.32

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Outstanding,
   end of year           167    $30.42       282   $21.42        325    $18.12

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Exercisable,
   end of year            70    $28.25        51   $28.38         47    $22.47
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Range  of  exercise   prices  at   September   30,  1997  --  $7.88  to  $44.29.
Weighted-average remaining contractual life -- 4 years.

All share and price  information  above has been  adjusted  to give  retroactive
effect to a three-for-two stock dividend declared December 31, 1996.

The Company has adopted the disclosure only provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation" ("FAS
123").  Accordingly,  no  compensation  costs have been recognized for the stock
options granted.  Had compensation costs for the Company's stock options granted
after September 30, 1995 been  determined  consistent with the provisions of FAS
123,  the  Company's  net  income  and  earnings  per share  would not have been
materially affected because the number of such stock options is insignificant.

Total  compensation  cost recognized for stock-based  compensation  during 1997,
1996 and 1995 was $42.2 million, $27.8 million and $16.9 million, respectively.

Note 13  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

IN THOUSANDS
QUARTER                    FIRST        SECOND      THIRD         FOURTH
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues                $437,625     $519,196     $572,547      $633,907
Net income               $96,229     $101,411     $111,188      $125,235
Earnings per share
  Primary                  $0.76        $0.80        $0.88         $0.99
  Fully diluted            $0.76        $0.80        $0.88         $0.99
Revenues                $341,755     $393,199     $394,762      $389,757
Net income               $73,951      $75,212      $81,066       $84,501
Earnings per share
  Primary                  $0.59        $0.60        $0.65         $0.68
  Fully diluted            $0.59        $0.60        $0.65         $0.67
Revenues                $303,303     $297,554     $316,568      $335,839
Net income               $63,304      $63,040      $69,029       $73,572
Earnings per share
  Primary                  $0.51        $0.51        $0.56         $0.59
  Fully diluted            $0.51        $0.51        $0.55         $0.59


Note 14  NEW STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In 1997, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued three  Statements of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  which will become  effective for the Company's
fiscal year ending September 30, 1999.

Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("FAS
128") specifies the computation,  presentation  and disclosure  requirements for
earnings per share for entities with  publicly  held common stock.  FAS 128 will
require  the  Company  to change its  presentation  of  earnings  per share from
primary and fully diluted to basic and diluted.  At that time,  all prior period
earnings  per share data will be restated.  The impact on reported  earnings per
share is not expected to be material as the Company's  common stock  equivalents
are currently not material.

Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 130, "Reporting  Comprehensive
Income"  ("FAS 130")  establishes  the  disclosure  requirements  for  reporting
comprehensive  income in an entity's  annual and interim  financial  statements.
Comprehensive  income  includes  such  items  as  foreign  currency  translation
adjustments and unrealized gains on securities  currently reported as components
of stockholders'  equity.  FAS 130 will require the Company to classify items of
comprehensive  income by their nature in a financial  statement  and display the
accumulated  balance  of other  comprehensive  income  separately  in the equity
section of the  consolidated  balance sheet.  The Company has not yet determined
the type of presentation it will adopt.

Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 131,  "Disclosures  of Segment
Information"  establishes  standards  for the way a  public  enterprise  reports
information about operating segments in annual financial statements and requires
that these enterprises  report selected  information about operating segments in
interim financial statements.  The Company has not yet determined the effect, if
any, of this pronouncement on the consolidated financial statements.


Item 9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure.


None.


                                   PART III

Items 10-13 are  incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  definitive  proxy
statement to be mailed to  stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held January 20, 1998.


                                    PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)  Please  see the index in Item 8 for a list of the  financial  statements
        filed as part of this report.

     (2)Please  see the  index in Item 8 for a list of the  financial  statement
        schedules filed as part of this report.

     (3)       The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

        (3)(i)(a) Registrant's  Certificate of Incorporation,  as filed November
               28, 1969,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the
               Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended
               September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

        (3)(i)(b)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,  as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(i)(c)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,  as filed April 1, 1987, incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(i)(d)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,   as  filed  February  2,  1994,  incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(ii) Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10
               (File No. 06952), incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(v)
               to the 1994 Annual Report

  10.1  Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth Fund, Inc.
        and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

  10.2  Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
        Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report

  10.3  Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd.
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

  10.4  Representative  Management  Agreement  between Advisers and the Franklin
        Group  of  Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to the
        Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
        30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

  10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan  between  Distributors  and the
        Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
        1992 Annual Report

  10.6  Amended Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved  January 24, 1995
        incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Proxy Statement filed under
        cover of Schedule 14A on December 28, 1994 in connection with its Annual
        Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995

  10.7  Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994 incorporated by reference
        to the Company's 1995 Proxy  Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A
        on  December  29,  1993  in  connection   with  its  Annual  Meeting  of
        Stockholders held on January 19, 1994

  10.8  Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
        Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free
        Income Fund,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
        Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

  10.9  Distribution  12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between  Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal   Tax-Free   Income  Fund,
        incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
        Report

  10.10 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Global Strategy SICAV and Templeton Investment Management Limited,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995 Quarterly
        Report

  10.11 Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
        & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities, incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.12 Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.13 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.14 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.15 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
        Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.
        and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995,  incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

  10.16 Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement between
        Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds,
        Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the 1995 Annual
        Report

  10.17 Representative Class II Distribution Plan between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of
        its Growth Series, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
        1995 Annual Report

  10.18 Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.19 Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for Accounts of
        Bank and Trust Company Customers,  effective July 1, 1995,  incorporated
        by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.20 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Value Investors
        Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and Franklin
        Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995
        Annual Report

  10.21 Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
        & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor, incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.22 Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between Templeton
        Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment Services (Asia)
        Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.23 Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
        Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Templeton Franklin
        Investment Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.24 Agreement  to Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
        Elmore Securities  Corporation and Franklin Resources,  Inc., dated June
        25, 1996,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report
        on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

  10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder  Services dated November
        1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor  Services,  Inc. and PFPC Inc.,
        incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  September  30, 1996 (the
        "1996 Annual Report")

  10.26 Representative Sample of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
        Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement, incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.27 Representative Administration Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
        Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.28 Representative Sample of Fund Administration Agreement with Franklin
        Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
        to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.29 Representative Subcontract for Fund Administrative Services between
        Franklin Advisers, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.30 Representative Investment Advisory Agreement between Franklin Mutual
        Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc., incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.31 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds
        and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.32 Representative Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation Agreement
        between Franklin Templeton Fund Allocator Series and Franklin
        Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996
        Annual Report

  10.33 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin New York Tax-Free
        Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory Services, Inc.,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.34 1998 Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  approved  December 12, 1997 by the
        Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Proxy
        Statement  filed  under cover of  Schedule  14A on December  17, 1997 in
        connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January
        20, 1998

  10.35 System Development and Services Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
        by and between Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
        Shareholder Systems, Inc.

   12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

   21   List of Subsidiaries

   23   Consent of Independent Accountants

   27   Financial Data Schedule

(b)(1)  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 24,  1997 was filed on July 24,
        1997  attaching  Registrant's  press  release  dated July 24, 1997 under
        Items 5 and 7.

(c)     See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)     No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
        in Item 8.


SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                          Charles B. Johnson, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                          Charles B. Johnson, Principal
                          Executive Officer and Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Harmon E. Burns
                          Harmon E. Burns, Executive Vice
                          President-Legal and Administrative
                          Secretary and Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Martin L. Flanagan
                          Martin L. Flanagan, Treasurer
                          and Chief Financial Officer

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Kenneth A. Lewis
                          Kenneth A. Lewis, Controller

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ James A. McCarthy
                          James A. McCarthy, Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ F. Warren Hellman
                          F. Warren Hellman, Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Charles E. Johnson
                          Charles E. Johnson, Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
                          Rupert H. Johnson, Jr., Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Harry O. Kline
                          Harry O. Kline, Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By   /s/ Louis E. Woodworth
                          Louis E. Woodworth, Director

Date: December 12, 1997   By
                          Peter M. Sacerdote, Director




ITEM

        (3)(i)(a) Registrant's  Certificate of Incorporation,  as filed November
               28, 1969,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the
               Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended
               September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

        (3)(i)(b)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,  as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(i)(c)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,  as filed April 1, 1987, incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(i)(d)  Registrant's  Certificate  of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
               Incorporation,   as  filed  February  2,  1994,  incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

        (3)(ii) Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10
               (File No. 06952), incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(v)
               to the 1994 Annual Report

  10.1  Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth Fund, Inc.
        and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

  10.2  Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
        Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report

  10.3  Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd.
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

  10.4  Representative  Management  Agreement  between Advisers and the Franklin
        Group  of  Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to the
        Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
        30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

  10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan  between  Distributors  and the
        Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
        1992 Annual Report

  10.6  Amended Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved  January 24, 1995
        incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Proxy Statement filed under
        cover of Schedule 14A on December 28, 1994 in connection with its Annual
        Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995

  10.7  Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994 incorporated by reference
        to the Company's 1995 Proxy  Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A
        on  December  29,  1993  in  connection   with  its  Annual  Meeting  of
        Stockholders held on January 19, 1994

  10.8  Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
        Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free
        Income Fund,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
        Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended June 30,
        1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

  10.9  Distribution  12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between  Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal   Tax-Free   Income  Fund,
        incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
        Report

  10.10 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Global Strategy SICAV and Templeton Investment Management Limited,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995 Quarterly
        Report

  10.11 Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
        & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities, incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.12 Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.13 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.14 Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
        Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

  10.15 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
        Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.
        and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995,  incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

  10.16 Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement between
        Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds,
        Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the 1995 Annual
        Report

  10.17 Representative Class II Distribution Plan between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., on behalf of
        its Growth Series, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
        1995 Annual Report

  10.18 Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
        Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.19 Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for Accounts of
        Bank and Trust Company Customers,  effective July 1, 1995,  incorporated
        by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.20 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Value Investors
        Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and Franklin
        Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995
        Annual Report

  10.21 Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, Galbraith
        & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor, incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.22 Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between Templeton
        Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment Services (Asia)
        Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.23 Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
        Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Templeton Franklin
        Investment Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

  10.24 Agreement  to Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
        Elmore Securities  Corporation and Franklin Resources,  Inc., dated June
        25, 1996,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report
        on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

  10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder  Services dated November
        1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor  Services,  Inc. and PFPC Inc.,
        incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  September  30, 1996 (the
        "1996 Annual Report")


  10.26 Representative Sample of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.
        Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement, incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.27 Representative Administration Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
        Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.28 Representative Sample of Fund Administration Agreement with Franklin
        Templeton Services, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
        to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.29 Representative Subcontract for Fund Administrative Services between
        Franklin Advisers, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.30 Representative Investment Advisory Agreement between Franklin Mutual
        Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc., incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.31 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds
        and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.32 Representative Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation Agreement
        between Franklin Templeton Fund Allocator Series and Franklin
        Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996
        Annual Report

  10.33 Representative Management Agreement between Franklin New York Tax-Free
        Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory Services, Inc.,
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the 1996 Annual Report

  10.34 1998 Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  approved  December 12, 1997 by the
        Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Proxy
        Statement  filed  under cover of  Schedule  14A on December  17, 1997 in
        connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on January
        20, 1998

  10.35 System Development and Services Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
        by and between Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
        Shareholder Systems, Inc.

   12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

   21   List of Subsidiaries

   23   Consent of Independent Accountants

   27   Financial Data Schedule

(b)(1)  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 24,  1997 was filed on July 24,
        1997  attaching  Registrant's  press  release  dated July 24, 1997 under
        Items 5 and 7.

(c)     See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)      No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
   in Item 8.


