
10-K
FORM 10-K



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                   (Mark One)
[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997
                                       OR
                                       [ ]
[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to
                          Commission file number 1-9318

                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                                           13-2670991
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S.   Employer
incorporation  or organization)                             Identification  No.)

777 Mariners Island Blvd.,
San  Mateo,  CA                                                          94404
(Address of principal executive offices)                             (Zip  Code)

Registrant's  telephone  number,  including Area Code (650) 312-2000  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                   Name of each exchange on which  registered
Common Stock,par value                New York Stock Exchange,
$.10 per share                        Pacific Exchange, Inc. and
                                      London Stock Exchange


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     Common Stock, par value $.10 per share
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES X NO ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [__]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based upon the closing price of $40.0625 on December 8, 1998 on the
New  York  Stock  Exchange  was  $5,337,097,525.   Calculation  of  holdings  by
non-affiliates  is based upon the  assumption,  for these  purposes  only,  that
executive officers,  directors,  nominees,  Registrant's Profit Sharing Plan and
persons holding 5% or more of Registrant's  Common Stock are affiliates.  Number
of shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding at December 8, 1998:
251,514,637

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Certain portions of the  Registrant's  proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  to be held  January  28,  1999,  which  was filed  under  cover of
Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange  Commission (the  "Commission") on
December 23, 1998 (the "Proxy  Statement"),  are  incorporated by reference into
Part III of this report.  In addition,  certain portions of Registrant's  Annual
Reports on Form 10-K,  Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q,  Monthly Reports on Form
8-K and Proxy  Statements under cover of Schedule 14A for the fiscal years 1992,
1993,  1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998 are incorporated by reference as Exhibits
under Item 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



                    INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                   PAGE NUMBER
      FORM 10-K                                              REFERENCE TO THIS
REQUIRED INFORMATION                                        1998 ANNUAL REPORT
                                                               ON FORM 10-K
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART I

      ITEM 1.     DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

      ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

      ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
                  SECURITY HOLDERS
PART II

      ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY

      ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                  OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                  OPERATION

      ITEM 7A.    MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

      ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                  Independent Auditors' Report
                  Statements of Consolidated Earnings
                  Consolidated Balance Sheets
                  Statements of Changes in Consolidated Stockholders'
                  Equity
                  Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income
                  Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Quarterly Information

      ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
                  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
PART III

      ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
                  THE REGISTRANT
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1:Election of Directors" *

      ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1:Election of Directors" *

      ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
                  BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
                  Proxy: "Voting Securities" *

      ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                  TRANSACTIONS
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors - Certain
                  Relationships and Related Transactions" *
PART IV

      ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
                  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                  Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Reports on Form 8-K
                  List of Exhibits

* Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement.





                                     PART I
Item 1. Business

(a)      GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. ("FRI") and its predecessors have been engaged in the
financial  services  business  since  1947.  FRI was  organized  in  Delaware in
November 1969. The term "Company" as used herein,  unless the context  otherwise
requires, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries.
The Company's principal executive and administrative offices are at 777 Mariners
Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,  California  94404. As of September 30, 1998, the
Company  employed  over 8,600  employees  on a worldwide  basis,  consisting  of
officers,  investment  management,   distribution,   administrative,  sales  and
clerical  support staff. The Company also employs  additional  temporary help as
necessary to meet unusual  requirements.  Management believes that its relations
with its employees are good.

FRI principally functions as a parent company primarily engaged, through various
subsidiaries,  in  providing  investment  management,  marketing,  distribution,
transfer  agency and other  administrative  services to the open-end  investment
companies   of  the   Franklin("R")   Templeton("R")   Group  and  to  U.S.  and
international  managed and  institutional  accounts.  The Company also  provides
investment  management and related services to a number of closed-end investment
companies  whose shares are traded on various major U.S. and some  international
stock  exchanges.  In  addition,  the Company  provides  investment  management,
marketing and distribution  services to certain sponsored  investment  companies
organized  in  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Luxembourg  ("SICAV  Funds"),   which  are
distributed  in  marketplaces  outside of North America,  to certain  investment
funds and  portfolios in Canada  ("Canadian  Funds") as well as to certain other
international  portfolios  in the United  Kingdom and  elsewhere.  The  Franklin
Templeton  Group  of  Funds  consists  of  forty-two  (42)  open-end  investment
companies with multiple portfolios.

The Company,  through certain  subsidiaries,  also provides  advisory  services,
variable  annuity  products,  and sponsors  and manages  public and private real
estate programs.  Other  subsidiaries  offer consumer banking services,  insured
deposits,  dealer  auto  loans and  credit  cards.  The  Company  also  provides
custodial,  trustee and  fiduciary  services to individual  retirement  accounts
("IRA") and profit sharing or money purchase plans, and to qualified  retirement
plans and private  trusts.  From time to time, the Company also  participates in
various investment management joint ventures. On a consolidated worldwide basis,
the  Company  provides  U.S.  and  international  individual  and  institutional
investors  with a broad range of  investment  products and services  designed to
meet varying investment objectives, which affords its clients the opportunity to
allocate  their  investment  resources  among  various  alternative   investment
products as changing worldwide economic and market conditions warrant.

The   Company  in  its  present   form   includes   three   families  of  mutual
funds--Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series ("TM"). The Company originated its
fund  business with the Franklin  Group of  Funds("R")  and added the other fund
families through the transactions described below.

On October 30, 1992, the Company  acquired  substantially  all of the assets and
liabilities  of the  then  investment  advisor  to the  Templeton,  Galbraith  &
Hansberger  Ltd.  ("Templeton")  financial  services  business  (the  "Templeton
Acquisition").

In November  1996, the Company  through its  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Franklin
Mutual Advisers,  Inc.  acquired (the "Mutual  Acquisition")  certain assets and
liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation ("Heine"), which provided investment
management  services to various  accounts and  investment  companies,  including
Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc.  ("Mutual
Series").  Mutual Series is an open-end investment company which, at the time of
the Mutual  Acquisition,  had five (5) series  funds.  Subsequent  to the Mutual
Acquisition,  the Company has managed  Mutual Series on a unified basis with its
other  business  operations.   See  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"  ("MD&A") and Note 2 of Notes to
the Financial Statements.

The  purchase  price paid at the  closing of the Mutual  Acquisition  was funded
through a combination of the Company's  available cash,  securities and the sale
of commercial  paper. The base purchase price consisted of $551 million in cash,
including  acquisition  expenses,  and the delivery of 3.3 million shares of the
Company's common stock (the "Acquisition  Shares").  The purchase price included
the  deposit  into  escrow of $150  million to be  invested  in shares of Mutual
Series, which shares are being released over a five-year period from the date of
the  acquisition,  with a minimum $100 million  retention for the full five-year
period.  In addition to the base  purchase  price,  the  transaction  included a
contingent  payment  ranging from $96.25 million to $192.5 million under certain
conditions  if certain  agreed-upon  growth  targets are met over the five years
following the closing.  The first contingent payment of $64.2 million related to
these  agreed-upon  growth  targets was made in the third quarter of fiscal 1998
and was accounted for as goodwill  related to additional  purchase  price of the
Mutual  Acquisition.  Other  payments  are due in fiscal 2000 and 2001 if growth
targets are met. See Note 2 of Notes to the Financial Statements.

From the closing of the Mutual  Acquisition  until November 1998,  Heine and its
chief  executive  officer,  Michael  F.  Price,  were  required  to limit  their
ownership of the Company's  common stock to no more than 4.9% and also agreed to
certain  limitations on the  transferability  of the Acquisition Shares for this
same time period.  For so long as Heine and Mr. Price maintain  ownership of the
Acquisition Shares they must be voted in accordance with the  recommendations of
the  Company's  Board of Directors.  The Company  generally has a right of first
offer  in the  event  that  Heine  and Mr.  Price  wish to  transfer  any of the
Acquisition  Shares.  The Company has also granted certain  registration  rights
with respect to the Acquisition  Shares. Mr. Price and five senior executives of
Heine entered into employment  agreements  assumed by Franklin Mutual  Advisers,
Inc. ("FMAI") upon the consummation of the transaction.

Certain terms used in this Report
- ---------------------------------

When used in this report,  the following terms generally apply unless  otherwise
noted.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Franklin Templeton funds"              all of the funds

"Other Assets"                          closed-end investment companies,  the
                                        foreign based funds and the other
                                        U.S.   and   international    managed
                                        and    institutional    accounts

"Franklin  Templeton  Group"            all of the funds and the "Other  Assets"
                                        combined
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of  September  30,  1998,  total  assets  under  management  in the  Franklin
Templeton Group were $208.6 billion,  the make-up of which was  approximately as
follows:  for the open-end investment  companies in the Franklin Templeton Group
(including  variable  annuities),  $169.6 billion;  and for all the Other Assets
(excluding variable annuities), $39.0 billion. This makes the Franklin Templeton
Group one of the largest investment management complexes in the United States.

The mix of assets under management by a large financial services complex such as
the  Franklin  Templeton  Group can be  segregated  by type of  assets,  type of
investment vehicle, type of investor or geographic location of assets.

Mix of Assets Under Management ("AUM")
- -------------------------------------

Type of Assets                               Value in Billions    % of AUM
- --------------                               -----------------    --------

Global, International and U.S. Equity            $ 119.6              57%
- -------------------------------------
      Held for  growth  potential,  income  potential  or  various  combinations
      thereof by all types of investors,  including  institutional  and separate
      accounts on a worldwide basis.

Fixed-income                                      $ 75.0              36%
- ------------
      Both long and short-term,  including money market fund assets, held by all
      types of investors on a worldwide basis.

Hybrid Funds                                      $14.0                7%
- ------------
      Asset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds.


Included in the above categories are $39.0 billion in Other Assets:

      Separate Accounts                           $18.5                9%
      -----------------
      Assets managed in separate accounts for which Company  subsidiaries act as
      advisers; primarily equity-oriented.

      International-based Funds                   $16.7                8%
      -------------------------
      Assets managed in  international-based  funds;  investment objectives vary
      but are primarily international and global equity-oriented.


      U.S. Based Closed-End Funds                  $3.8                2%
      ---------------------------
      Assets in U.S.-based funds in various investment vehicles.




               Subsidiaries-Investment Management, Administration,
               ---------------------------------------------------
                       Distribution and Related Services
                       ---------------------------------

The Company's  principal  line of business is providing  investment  management,
administration,  distribution  and related  services for the Franklin  Templeton
Group. This business is primarily  conducted through the principal  wholly-owned
direct and indirect subsidiary companies described below. Revenues are generated
primarily  by  subsidiaries  that  provide  advisory  and  management  services.
Revenues are derived  primarily from investment  management fees calculated as a
percentage  of the value of  assets  under  management.  Annual  rates  vary and
generally decline as the level of assets managed increases.


Franklin Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Advisers,  Inc. ("Advisers") is a California corporation formed in 1985
and is based in San Mateo,  California.  Advisers is registered as an investment
advisor  with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (the "SEC")  under the
Investment  Advisers  Act  of  1940  (the  "Advisers  Act").  Advisers  provides
investment  advisory,  portfolio  management and  administrative  services under
management  agreements  with most of the funds in the  Franklin  Group of Funds.
Advisers manages approximately $92.2 billion,  representing  approximately 44.2%
of the Company's  total assets under  management,  and  generates  approximately
15.9% of total Company revenues.

Templeton Global Advisors Limited

Templeton Global Advisors Limited ("TGAL") is a Bahamian  corporation located in
Nassau,  Bahamas. TGAL is registered as an investment advisor with the SEC under
the Advisers Act. TGAL provides  investment  management  services  under various
agreements with certain of the Templeton  funds,  and Other Assets.  TGAL is the
principal  investment  advisor to the Templeton funds and manages  approximately
$44.1 billion,  representing  approximately  21.1% of the Company's total assets
under management.

Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc. is a Delaware  corporation formed in 1996 and is
based in Short Hills,  New Jersey.  FMAI is registered as an investment  advisor
with the SEC under the Advisers  Act. FMAI provides  investment  management  and
portfolio  management services under various agreements with Mutual Series. FMAI
principally  serves as the  investment  manager to the Mutual  Series  funds and
manages  approximately  $25.4 billion,  representing  approximately 12.2% of the
Company's total assets under management.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc.

Templeton  Investment Counsel,  Inc. ("TICI") is a Florida corporation formed in
October 1979. Based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, TICI is the principal investment
advisor to the  majority of the  separate  accounts.  In  addition,  it provides
investment  advisory portfolio  management  services to certain of the Templeton
funds and subadvisory  services to certain of the Franklin  funds.  TICI manages
approximately  $19.9 billion,  representing  approximately 9.6% of the Company's
total assets under management.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd.

Templeton  Asset  Management  Ltd.  ("Templeton  Singapore")  is  a  corporation
organized under the laws of, and is based in, Singapore. It is registered as the
foreign  equivalent  of an  investment  advisor in  Singapore  with the Monetary
Authority of Singapore  and is also  registered  with the SEC under the Advisers
Act. A representative office of Templeton Singapore is registered as the foreign
equivalent of an investment advisor in Hong Kong.  Templeton  Singapore provides
investment  advisory  and  related  services  to  certain  Templeton  funds  and
portfolios. Templeton Singapore is principally an investment advisor to emerging
market equity portfolios.

Franklin Advisory Services, Inc.

Franklin Advisory  Services,  Inc. ("FASI") is a Delaware  corporation formed in
1996 and is based in Fort Lee, New Jersey.  FASI is  registered as an investment
advisor with the SEC under the Advisers Act. FASI provides  investment  advisory
and portfolio management services under management agreements with certain funds
in  the  Franklin  Group  of  Funds  also  provides   sub-advisory  services  to
non-affiliated entities.

Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

Franklin Templeton Services,  Inc. ("FTSI") is a Delaware  corporation formed in
1996 and is based in San Mateo,  California.  FTSI provides business  management
services, including fund accounting, securities pricing, trading, compliance and
other related  administrative  activities under various management agreements to
most of the U.S. Franklin Templeton funds.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited is a corporation organized
under the laws of,  and is based in,  Hong  Kong.  It was formed in late 1993 to
distribute and service the Company's financial products in Asia.

Templeton Management Limited

Templeton  Management Limited is a Canadian  corporation formed in October 1982,
and is registered in Canada as the foreign  equivalent of an investment  advisor
and a mutual fund dealer with the  Ontario  Securities  Commission.  It provides
investment  advisory,  portfolio  management,  distribution  and  administrative
services under various  management  agreements  with the Canadian Funds and with
private and institutional accounts.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("Distributors") is a New York corporation
formed in 1947. It is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer and is a member
of the National  Association of Securities  Dealers,  Inc. (the "NASD").  As the
principal  underwriter of the shares of most of the Franklin Templeton funds, it
earns underwriting commissions on the distribution of shares of the funds.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc.

Templeton/Franklin  Investment Services, Inc. ("TFIS") is a Delaware corporation
formed in October 1987 and is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer  and an
investment advisor.  Its principal business activities include:  (i) through its
Templeton  Portfolio Advisory division,  serving as a sponsor of a comprehensive
fee  (wrap  account)  program,  in which it  provides  investment  advisory  and
broker-dealer  services,  as well as  serving  as  investment  adviser  in other
broker-dealer  wrap  account  programs  and  directly as an adviser for separate
accounts; and (ii) serving as a direct marketing broker-dealer for institutional
investors in the Franklin Templeton Group.

Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc.

Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. ("FTIS") is a California corporation
formed in 1981 which provides  shareholder  record keeping  services and acts as
transfer agent and  dividend-paying  agent for the Franklin  Templeton  open-end
funds.  FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934  (the  "Exchange  Act").  FTIS  is  compensated  under  an
agreement  with each fund on the basis of a fixed annual fee per account,  which
varies with the fund and the type of services being provided,  and is reimbursed
for out-of-pocket expenses.

Franklin Templeton Trust Company

Franklin  Templeton Trust Company ("FTTC"),  a California  corporation formed in
October 1983, is a trust company  licensed by the California  Superintendent  of
Banks. FTTC serves primarily as custodian for Individual Retirement Accounts and
profit sharing or money purchase plans whose assets are invested in the Franklin
Templeton  funds,  and as trustee or fiduciary of private  trusts and retirement
plans.

Templeton Funds Trust Company

Templeton Funds Trust Company ("TFTC"), a Florida corporation formed in December
1985, is a trust company licensed by the Florida Office of the Comptroller. TFTC
serves as trustee of commingled trusts for qualified retirement plans.

Franklin Management, Inc.

Franklin  Management,  Inc.  ("FMI"),  a  California  corporation  organized  in
February 1978, is a registered investment advisor for private accounts. FMI also
provides advisory services to third party broker-dealer wrap fee programs.

Franklin Agency, Inc.

Franklin Agency,  Inc. is a California  corporation  organized in December 1971,
which currently provides variable insurance product development for the Franklin
Templeton Group.

Templeton Funds Annuity Company

Templeton  Funds Annuity  Company  ("TFAC") is a Florida  corporation  formed in
January  1984  which  offers  variable  annuity  products.  TFAC is  principally
regulated by the Florida Department of Insurance and Florida's Treasurer.

Templeton International, Inc.

Templeton  International,  Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in September
1992 and acts as the holding company for a number of the Templeton international
subsidiaries.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc.

Templeton Worldwide,  Inc. is a Delaware  corporation  organized in July 1992 as
the parent holding company for all of the Templeton companies.

Other Investment Advisory,  Distribution,  Research and Related Subsidiaries are
organized and/or located in California, Canada, Florida, Australia, the Bahamas,
Bermuda,  Brazil,  China, Cyprus,  France,  Germany,  India, Italy,  Luxembourg,
Mauritius, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and
provide  investment  advisory and related services to other  subsidiaries of the
Company and to various U.S. and foreign portfolios and private and institutional
accounts. In addition, the Company, through various subsidiaries,  has opened or
is in the  process  of  opening  branch  offices  or in some  instances  forming
subsidiaries  in various other  international  locations,  including  Argentina,
Hungary, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Sweden, Taiwan and Vietnam.


                      Subsidiaries-Other Financial Services
                      -------------------------------------

In  addition  to  its  principal  business  activity  of  providing   investment
management and related services,  during all or portions of the fiscal year, the
Company was also  engaged in two (2) other  lines of  business in the  financial
services  marketplace  conducted  through  the  subsidiaries   described  below:
consumer  lending  services and the management of public and private real estate
programs.



Consumer Lending Services

Franklin  Bank (the  "Bank"),  a  98.2%-owned  subsidiary  of the Company,  is a
non-Federal  Reserve member California State chartered bank. The Bank was formed
in 1974 and was acquired by the Company in December 1985.  The Bank,  with total
assets of $104.7  million as of September 30, 1998,  provides  consumer  banking
products and services such as credit  cards,  auto loans,  deposit  accounts and
consumer  loans.  The Bank does not exercise its  commercial  lending  powers in
order to maintain its status as a "non-bank  bank" pursuant to the provisions of
the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA") which permits the Company,
a  "non-banking  company"  prior to CEBA, to remain exempt from the Bank Holding
Company Act under the "grandfathering" provisions of CEBA.

Franklin Capital Corporation

Franklin Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a Utah corporation formed in June 1993
to expand the  Company's  auto  lending  activities.  FCC  conducts its business
primarily in the Western  region of the United States and  originates  its loans
through a network of auto  dealerships  representing a wide variety of makes and
models.  FCC offers  several  different  loan  programs  to finance new and used
vehicles. FCC has in the past acquired credit card receivables from the Bank. As
of  September  30,  1998,  FCC's total assets  included  $38.1  million of gross
automobile  contracts  and $51.1  million of gross credit card  receivables.  In
September  1998,  FCC  securitized  approximately  $134.3  million  of auto loan
receivables but continues to service those  receivables for a fee. See Note 4 of
Notes to the Financial Statements.

Real Estate Subsidiaries

The  Company's  real  estate-related  line of  business is  conducted  primarily
through two (2) subsidiary corporations.  Franklin Properties, Inc. ("FPI") is a
real estate  investment and management  company organized in California in April
1988, which manages a publicly-traded  real estate  investment  trust.  Franklin
Select Realty Trust,  Inc. is managed by FPI under an advisory  agreement and is
publicly  traded  on the  American  Stock  Exchange.  Property  Resources,  Inc.
("PRI"),  a California  corporation  organized in April 1967 and acquired by the
Company in December 1985, serves as general partner, property manager or advisor
for certain other real estate investment programs.

                              Investment Management
                              ---------------------

The Franklin  Templeton Group  accommodates a variety of investment  objectives,
including capital appreciation,  growth and income, income,  tax-free income and
preservation of capital.  In seeking to achieve such objectives,  each portfolio
emphasizes  different  investment  securities.   Portfolios  that  seek  capital
appreciation  invest  primarily  in  equity  securities  in a  wide  variety  of
international and U.S. markets; some seek broad national market exposure,  while
others focus on narrower sectors such as precious metals,  health care, emerging
technology,  mid-cap companies,  small-cap companies, real estate securities and
utilities.  Portfolios  seeking  income  focus on taxable and  tax-exempt  money
market instruments,  tax-exempt municipal bonds, global fixed-income securities,
fixed-income debt securities of corporations and of the U.S.  government and its
agencies  and  instrumentalities   such  as  the  Government  National  Mortgage
Association,  the Federal National  Mortgage  Association,  and the Federal Home
Loan  Mortgage  Corporation.  Still others focus on  investments  in  particular
countries and regions. A majority of the assets managed are equity-oriented.

In addition to closed-end  funds,  many of which are described  below, the Other
Assets  include  portfolios  managed  for  the  world's  largest   corporations,
endowments, charitable foundations, pension funds, wealthy individuals and other
institutions.  Investment  management  services  for  such  portfolios  focus on
specific client objectives  utilizing the various investment  techniques offered
by the Franklin Templeton Group.

Shares of the open-end funds in the Franklin Templeton Group generally were sold
during  fiscal 1998 at their  respective  net asset value per share plus a sales
charge,  which varies depending upon the type of fund and the amount  purchased.
Exceptions  were shares sold without an up-front  sales charge in the  Company's
money market funds;  Class II shares discussed below and other similar products;
and funds specifically designed for institutional  investors. In accordance with
certain  terms and  conditions  described  in the  prospectuses  for such funds,
certain  investors  are  eligible  to  purchase  shares at net asset value or at
reduced sales  charges,  and investors may generally  exchange their shares of a
fund at net asset value for shares  within the same class of another fund in the
Franklin Templeton Group without the payment of additional sales charges.

As of September 30, 1998,  the net asset  holdings of the five (5) largest funds
in the Franklin Templeton Group (some of which are investment companies and some
of which are series of other investment  companies) were Franklin California Tax
Free Income Fund, Inc ($15.9  billion),  Templeton  Growth Fund ($12.3 billion),
Templeton  Foreign  Fund ($11.7  billion),  the  Franklin  Custodian  Funds-U.S.
Government  ($9.4  billion)  and  the  Franklin  Custodian   Funds-Income  ($8.7
billion). At September 30, 1998, these five (5) mutual funds represented, in the
aggregate, 27.8% of all assets under management in the Franklin Templeton Group.

                          General Fund Description
                           -------------------------

The Investment  Company  Institute  (the "ICI"),  an industry group of which the
Company is a member,  has  developed  detailed  definitions  for the  investment
objectives   of   U.S.-based   open-end   mutual  funds  and  variable   annuity
sub-accounts.  In addition to the open-end  U.S.-based fund assets  described in
the chart below, the Company also manages  approximately  $39.0 billion in other
funds and accounts (the "Other  Assets").  Approximately  $18.5 billion of these
assets are managed in separate  accounts for which Company  subsidiaries  act as
advisors.  The  investment  objectives of these  accounts vary but are primarily
equity-oriented.   Of  the  Other   Assets,   $16.7   billion   is   managed  in
international-based  funds whose  investment  objectives  vary but are primarily
international and global equity-oriented.  Finally, $3.8 billion of Other Assets
is in U.S.-based funds in various investment  vehicles.  The Other Assets in the
aggregate  comprised  approximately 19% of the Company's assets under management
during the last fiscal year.

The  categories  used in this chart are more precise  than the broad  investment
objective  categories used in MD&A and in the Company's  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  The  following is a summary of the  Company's  U.S.-based  open-end
mutual funds and dedicated  insurance  products funds  categorized using the ICI
definitions.



                 FRANKLIN TEMPLETON FUNDS - U.S. BASED OPEN END
                 ----------------------------------------------






Recent Fund Introductions and Changes
- -------------------------------------

A new  investment  company,  Franklin  Floating  Rate Trust,  was  introduced in
October 1997. Among other funds introduced was the Franklin Bond Fund, which was
added to the Franklin  Investors  Securities  Trust in August 1998. In May 1998,
sales commenced for two (2) new series of the Franklin  Valuemark Funds and four
(4) new series of Templeton Variable Products Series Fund: Value Securities Fund
and Global  Health  Securities  Fund,  and  Franklin  Growth  Investments  Fund,
Franklin Small Cap Investments  Fund,  Mutual  Discovery  Investments  Fund, and
Mutual Shares Investments Fund,  respectively.  During the fiscal year, five (5)
funds were liquidated,  one (1) Franklin fund merged into another Franklin fund,
and one (1) Templeton fund merged into another Templeton fund.

During fiscal 1998,  seventy-nine  (79) retail Franklin  Templeton funds offered
multiple  classes of shares in  response to  investor  demand for  varying  load
structures. Of these funds, forty-five (45) offered Class I and Class II shares,
seven (7) offered  Class I and  Advisor  Class  Shares,  and  twenty-seven  (27)
offered  Class I,  Class II and  Advisor  Class  Shares  (or the  Mutual  Series
equivalent to Advisor Class Shares,  called Class Z Shares).  In addition,  nine
(9) variable annuity funds offered its shares in two separate classes.

(b)   FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on the Company's operations in various geographic areas of the world
and a breakout of business  segment  information is contained in Note 7 of Notes
to the Financial Statements.

(c)   NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

                Investment Management and Administrative Services
                -------------------------------------------------

The  Company,   through  its  various  subsidiaries  described  above,  provides
investment advisory, portfolio management,  transfer agency, business management
agent and administrative services to the Franklin Templeton Group. Such services
are provided  pursuant to agreements in effect with each of the U.S.  registered
Franklin Templeton funds open- and closed-end investment  companies.  Comparable
agreements  are in effect with foreign  registered  funds and with other managed
accounts.  The management  agreements for the U.S. registered Franklin Templeton
funds  continue  in  effect  for  successive  annual  periods,   providing  such
continuance is  specifically  approved at least annually by a majority vote cast
in person at a meeting of such funds' Boards of Trustees or Directors called for
that  purpose,  or by a  vote  of  the  holders  of a  majority  of  the  funds'
outstanding voting securities. In either event, the continuance must be approved
by a majority of such funds'  trustees or directors  who are not parties to such
agreement or interested  persons of the funds or the Company  within the meaning
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "40 Act").  Trustees and directors of
the funds' boards are hereinafter referred to as "directors". Foreign registered
funds have various termination rights and provisions.

Each such agreement  automatically  terminates in the event of its  "assignment"
(as defined in the 40 Act) and either party may terminate the agreement  without
penalty  after  written  notice  ranging  from  thirty  (30) to sixty (60) days.
"Assignment"  is  defined  in the 40 Act as  including  any  direct or  indirect
transfer of a controlling block of voting stock. Control is defined as the power
to  exercise a  controlling  influence  over the  management  or  policies  of a
company.

If there were to be a  termination  of a  significant  number of the  management
agreements between the Franklin  Templeton funds and the Company's  subsidiaries
or with respect to a significant  portion of the Other Assets,  such termination
would have a material  adverse  impact upon the Company.  To date, no management
agreements  of the Company or any of its  subsidiaries  with any of the Franklin
Templeton funds have been involuntarily terminated. Changes in the customer base
of  institutional  investors  occur on a  regular  basis.  Since  the  Templeton
Acquisition and the Mutual  Acquisition to date,  assets under management in the
category of Other Assets set forth above have continued to grow.

As of  September  30,  1998,  substantially  all of the  shares  of the  various
directly and indirectly  owned  subsidiary  companies were owned directly by the
Company or  subsidiaries  thereof,  except with  respect to a limited  number of
foreign entities and limited minority  ownership of certain other companies.  As
of December 8, 1998,  Charles B. Johnson,  Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. and R. Martin
Wiskemann   beneficially   owned   approximately   19.02%,   15.20%  and  9.55%,
respectively, of the outstanding voting common stock of the Company.

Under the terms of the management  agreements with the Franklin Templeton funds,
the  various  subsidiary  companies  described  above  generally  supervise  and
implement  such funds'  investment  activities  and  provide the  administrative
services and  facilities  which are  necessary  to the  operation of such funds'
business. Such subsidiary companies also conduct research and provide investment
advisory  services and,  subject to and in accordance  with any directions  such
funds' boards may issue from time to time, such subsidiary  companies  determine
which  securities  such funds will  purchase,  hold or sell.  In addition,  such
subsidiary  companies  take all steps  necessary  to implement  such  decisions,
including the selection of brokers and dealers to execute  transactions for such
funds,  in  accordance  with  detailed  criteria  set  forth  in the  management
agreement for such funds and applicable law and practice.  Similar  services are
rendered with respect to the Other Assets.

Generally,  FRI or a subsidiary  provides and pays the salaries of personnel who
serve as officers of the Franklin  Templeton funds,  including the President and
such other  administrative  personnel  as are  necessary  to conduct such funds'
day-to-day  business  operations,   including  maintaining  a  fund's  portfolio
records,  answering shareholder inquiries,  providing information,  creating and
publishing  literature,  compliance  with  securities  regulations,  maintaining
accounting  systems  and  controls,  preparation  of  annual  reports  and other
administrative activities.

The funds  generally  pay their own expenses  such as legal and  auditing  fees,
reporting and board and shareholder  meeting costs,  SEC and state  registration
and similar expenses.  Generally, the funds pay advisory companies a fee payable
monthly  based  upon a  fund's  net  assets.  Annual  rates  under  the  various
investment  management  agreements range from .05% to a maximum of 2.00% and are
generally reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels.

The investment  management  agreements  permit  advisory  companies to act as an
advisor  to more  than one fund so long as such  companies'  ability  to  render
services to each of such funds is not  impaired,  and so long as  purchases  and
sales  appropriate  for all  such  funds  are made on a  proportionate  or other
equitable  basis.  Management  of the  Company  and the  directors  of the funds
regularly review the fund fee structures in light of fund performance, the level
and range of services provided,  industry conditions and other relevant factors.
Advisory fees are  generally  waived or  voluntarily  reduced when a new fund is
established  and then  increased  to  contractual  levels with the growth in net
assets.

The investment  advisory  services  provided by such advisory  companies include
fundamental  investment research and valuation analyses,  encompassing  original
country, industry and company research, company visits and inspections,  and the
utilization of such sources as company public records and activities, management
interviews,   company  prepared   information,   and  other  publicly  available
information,  as well as analyses of suppliers,  customers and  competitors.  In
addition,  research  services  provided by  brokerage  firms are used to support
other  research.  In this  regard,  some  brokerage  business  from the funds is
allocated in recognition of value-added research services received.

Fixed-income  research  includes  economic  analysis,  credit analysis and value
analysis. The economic analysis function monitors and evaluates numerous factors
that  influence  the supply and demand for credit on a worldwide  basis.  Credit
analysis  researches the  creditworthiness  of debt issuers and their individual
short-term and long-term debt issues. Yield spread differential analysis reviews
the  relative  value  of  market  sectors  that  represent  buying  and  selling
opportunities.

Additional   administrative  services  are  provided  by  FTIS,  which  receives
administrative  fees from the funds for  providing  shareholder  record  keeping
services and for acting as transfer and dividend-paying  agent for the funds. As
of September 30, 1998, such amounts was based upon an annual fee per shareholder
account,  ranging  between $14.79 and $18.00,  a pro-rated  portion of which was
paid monthly.

Distribution and Marketing
- --------------------------

Distributors acts as the principal  underwriter and distributor of shares of the
open-end  Franklin  Templeton funds.  Distributors has entered into underwriting
agreements with the funds,  which generally  provide for Distributors to pay the
expenses for fund shares.  Although the Company does significant advertising and
sales promotions through media sources, fund shares are sold primarily through a
large network of independent  participating  securities dealers. As of September
30, 1998,  approximately 3,880 local, regional and national securities brokerage
firms offered shares of the Franklin  Templeton  funds for sale to the investing
public. The Company has approximately fifty (50) general wholesalers and six (6)
retirement  and  three  (3)  insurance   wholesalers   who  interface  with  the
broker-dealer  community.  Fund  shares  are  offered to  individual  investors,
qualified  groups,  trustees,  IRA and profit sharing or money  purchase  plans,
employee   benefit  plans,   trust   companies,   bank  trust   departments  and
institutional investors. In addition,  various management and advisory services,
commingled and pooled accounts,  wrap fee arrangements and various other private
investment  management services are offered to certain private and institutional
investors.

Broker-dealers  are paid various fees for  services in matching  investors  with
funds whose investment  objectives match such investors'  goals.  Broker-dealers
also assist in explaining the operations of the funds,  in servicing the account
and in various other distribution services.

Most of the  U.S.  based  Franklin  Templeton  funds  have a  multi-class  share
structure  whereby Class I shares are sold with a maximum front-end sales charge
ranging from a low of 1.50% to a high of 5.75%.  Reductions in the maximum sales
charges may be  available  depending  upon the amount  invested  and the type of
investor.  Class II shares,  which were introduced  during the 1995 fiscal year,
have a hybrid, level load structure combining aspects of conventional front-end,
back-end and level-load pricing. Class II shares are subject to an initial sales
charge of 1% paid  immediately  by the investor.  Also,  in connection  with the
distribution  of Class II shares,  a principal  distribution  subsidiary  of the
Company has in the past paid,  and may in the future pay,  an  additional  1% to
third-party  intermediaries.  Class II shares are also generally subject to a 1%
contingent  deferred  sales charge,  charged to the investor and returned to the
Company,  on  redemptions  within  eighteen  (18) months of purchase.  See "Risk
Factors and Cautionary  Statements"  below.  Class II shares are also subject to
higher on-going Rule 12b-1 fees, as described below.  The Company's  multi-class
share   structure  was  adopted  to  provide   investors  with  greater  payment
alternatives  for their  investment  programs.  Money  market  funds are sold to
investors with no sales charge. In addition, certain funds and classes of shares
which have no sales  charges  (Advisor  class  shares  with  respect to Franklin
Templeton funds and Z Class shares with respect to Mutual Series) are offered to
institutions and investment advisory (both affiliated and unaffiliated) clients.
Advisor  and Z Class  shares  are also  available  to  officers,  directors  and
employees of the Company and the funds, as well as to holders of Franklin Mutual
Series funds on the date of the Mutual Acquistion.

Most of the U.S.  registered  Franklin  Templeton  funds,  with the exception of
certain Franklin  Templeton money market funds,  have also adopted  distribution
plans  (the  "Plans")  under  Rule  12b-1  promulgated  under the 40 Act  ("Rule
12b-1").  The Plans are  established  for an  initial  term of one (1) year and,
thereafter,  must be  approved  annually by the fund boards and by a majority of
disinterested  fund directors.  All such Plans are subject to termination at any
time  by a  majority  vote  of the  disinterested  directors  or by  the  funds'
shareholders.  The Plans permit the funds to bear certain  expenses  relating to
the distribution of their shares.

Fees under the Plans for Class I shares  range in amount  from a low of .10% per
annum of average  daily net  assets to a high of .50% while  Class II share fees
range between .65% to 1%. The  implementation  of the Plans provided for a lower
fee on Class I shares  acquired  prior to the adoption of such Plans.  Fees from
the Plans are paid primarily to third party dealers who provide service to their
shareholder accounts, and also engage in distribution  activities.  Distributors
may  also  receive  reimbursement  from  the  funds  for  expenses  involved  in
distributing the funds, such as advertising,  and reimbursement for a 1% payment
to  dealers on sales of Class II shares,  subject to the Plans'  limitations  on
amounts.

As of  September  30, 1998,  there were  approximately  8.9 million  shareholder
accounts in the worldwide Franklin Templeton Group.



Revenues
- --------

As shown in the Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  the Company's revenues are
derived primarily from its investment management activities. As set forth in the
table captioned "MD&A-Operating  Revenues",  revenues from investment management
fees  have  comprised  approximately  55%,  56% and 54% in 1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively,  of total operating revenue for each of the three (3) fiscal years
reported.  Underwriting  commissions,  from  gross  sales and  reinvestments  of
products subject to commissions  contributed to revenues approximately 38%, 38%,
and 39% in 1998,  1997 and 1996  respectively.  Shareholder  servicing fees from
mutual fund activities contributed 6% in each of 1998, 1997 and 1996.

Other Financial Services
- ------------------------

The Company's  consumer lending,  dealer auto loan and real estate businesses do
not  contribute  significantly  to either the  revenues or the net income of the
Company.  The Company's  real estate  operations  have incurred net losses since
inception and the Company does not anticipate any immediate  improvement in this
line of business.  There was a significant  reduction in gross  charge-offs  and
delinquency  rates in the auto loan business during fiscal 1997 and 1998. A more
detailed  analysis of the financial effects of loan losses and delinquency rates
in the Company's consumer lending and dealer auto loan business,  as well as the
funding of this activity, is contained in the "MD&A-Operating Revenues".

Regulatory Considerations
- -------------------------

Virtually  all  aspects  of the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to various
foreign, federal and state laws and regulations. As discussed above, the Company
and a number of its subsidiaries  are registered with various  foreign,  federal
and  state  governmental   agencies.   These  supervisory  agencies  have  broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from
carrying  on its  business  if it  fails  to  comply  with  applicable  laws and
regulations. In the event of non-compliance, the possible sanctions which may be
imposed include suspending  individual  employees,  limiting the Company's (or a
subsidiary's)  ability  to engage in  business  for  specified  periods of time,
revoking the investment advisor or broker-dealer  registrations and censures and
fines.

The  Company's  officers,  directors  and  employees  may from  time to time own
securities  which are also held by the funds.  The Company's  internal  policies
with respect to individual investments by certain employees,  including officers
and  directors  who are employed by the Company,  require  prior  clearance  and
reporting of some transactions and restrict certain transactions so as to reduce
the possibility of conflicts of interest.  The Company's  compliance  procedures
meet the standards  outlined in the most recent guidelines of the ICI related to
securities  transactions  by  employees,  officers and  directors of  investment
companies.

To the extent that existing or future regulations cause or contribute to reduced
sales of fund shares or investment products or impair the investment performance
of the funds or such other investment  products,  the Company's aggregate assets
under  management  and its  revenues  might be  adversely  affected.  Changes in
regulations  affecting  free  movement of  international  currencies  might also
adversely affect the Company.

The  Company,  including  certain of its  subsidiaries,  is subject to increased
scrutiny and a substantially-increased volume of compliance reporting related to
its plan,  activities  and the  associated  costs  related to the Year 2000,  as
discussed in more detail in "MD&A-Year 2000."

Since 1993,  the NASD Conduct  Rules have limited the amount of aggregate  sales
charges  which  may be paid in  connection  with the  purchase  and  holding  of
investment company shares sold through brokers.  The effect of the rule might be
to limit the amount of fees that could be paid  pursuant to a fund's  12b-1 Plan
to Distributors, a subsidiary of the Company that earns underwriting commissions
on the distribution of fund shares.  Such limitations would apply in a situation
where a fund has no, or limited,  new sales for a prolonged period of time. None
of the  Franklin  Templeton  funds are in, or close to,  that  situation  at the
present time.

Competition
- -----------

The  financial  services  industry is highly  competitive  and has  increasingly
become a global industry.  As a result,  comparative  market data is not readily
available.  There are over 7,000 open-end investment companies of varying sizes,
investment  policies and objectives whose shares are being offered to the public
in the United  States.  Due to the Company's  international  presence and varied
product mix, it is difficult to assess the Company's market position relative to
other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but the Company believes that it
is one of the more widely diversified  investment managers in the United States.
The Company believes that its strong equity and  fixed-income  base coupled with
its strong global presence will serve its competitive  needs well over time. The
Company continues its focus on service to customers,  performance on investments
and  extensive  marketing  activities  with its strong  broker-dealer  and other
financial institution distribution network.

The Company is in competition  with the financial  services and other investment
alternatives offered by stock brokerage and investment banking firms,  insurance
companies,   banks,   savings  and  loan   associations   and  other   financial
institutions.  Many of these  competitors have  substantially  greater resources
than the  Company.  Although  the  banking  industry  continues  to  expand  its
sponsorship of proprietary funds distributed through  third-party  distributors,
the Company has and continues to actively pursue sales  relationships with banks
and insurance companies to broaden its distribution  network in response to such
competitive pressures.

As investor  interest in the mutual fund  industry  has  increased,  competitive
pressures have increased on sales charges of  broker-dealer  distributed  funds.
The Company  believes  that,  although this trend will  continue,  a significant
portion  of  the   investing   public  still  relies  on  the  services  of  the
broker-dealer community,  particularly during weaker market conditions. However,
in response to competitive  pressures or for other similar reasons,  the Company
might be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges,  substantially  all of
which are currently paid by the Company to  broker-dealers  and other  financial
intermediaries. The Company has experienced increased demand for payments to its
distribution  channels  and  anticipates  that this  trend  will  continue.  The
reduction in such sales  charges paid to  broker-dealers  could make the sale of
shares  of  the  Franklin  Templeton  funds  somewhat  less  attractive  to  the
broker-dealer  community,  which could in turn have a material adverse effect on
the Company's revenues.  The Company believes that it is well positioned to deal
with such  changes  in  marketing  trends as a result of its  already  extensive
advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition.

The Company  advertises the Franklin Templeton Group in major national financial
publications,  as  well  as on  radio  and  television  to  promote  brand  name
recognition and to assist its  distribution  network.  Such activities  included
purchasing network and cable programming,  sponsorship of sporting events,  such
as the "Franklin Templeton Shark Shoot-Out", sponsorship of The Nightly Business
Report on public television, and extensive newspaper and magazine advertising.

Further  aspects of  competition  are  discussed  below under "Risk  Factors and
Cautionary Statements".

Asset Mix
- ---------

As discussed above, the Company's revenues are derived primarily from investment
management  activities.  Broadly speaking, the direction and amount of change in
the net assets of the funds are  dependent  upon two  factors:  (1) the level of
sales of shares of the funds as compared to  redemptions of shares of the funds;
and (2) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities  owned by
the funds. As the Company's asset mix has shifted since 1992 from  predominantly
fixed income to a majority of equity  assets,  the Company has become subject to
an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global equity markets.
This was  evidenced in the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year when a substantial
decline in the global  equity  markets  caused a 12%  reduction in the Company's
assets  under  management  and an 11%  decline  in its  operating  revenues.  In
addition,  since the Company  derives higher revenues and income from its equity
assets, such a shift in assets from equity back to primarily  fixed-income would
have a greater than  proportional  impact on the Company's  income and revenues.
Despite such volatility,  management  believes that in the long run the Franklin
Templeton  Group is more  competitive  as a result of the greater  diversity  of
global investments and product mix available to its customers.

Market values are affected by many things,  including  the general  condition of
national and world economics and the direction and volume of changes in interest
rates and/or  inflation  rates.  Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield
curve will have an effect on fixed-income  assets under management as well as on
the flow of  monies  to and  from  fixed-income  funds  and,  therefore,  on the
Company's  revenues  from such funds.  The effects of the  foregoing  factors on
equity  funds  and  fixed-income  funds  often  operate  inversely  and  it  is,
therefore,  difficult  to  predict  the  net  effect  of any  particular  set of
conditions on the level of assets under management.

Although  the Company and its assets under  management  are subject to political
and  currency  risks  due to  its  international  activities,  its  exposure  to
fluctuations  in foreign  currency  markets is limited,  as is discussed in more
detail in "Risk  Factors and  Cautionary  Statements"  and  "MD&A-Liquidity  and
Capital Resources".

Forward-Looking Statements

When  used in this  Form  10-K and in future  filings  by the  Company  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission,  in the Company's press releases and in oral
statements made with the approval of an authorized  executive officer, the words
or phrases  "will likely  result",  "are  expected  to",  "will  continue",  "is
anticipated",  "estimate",  "project"  or similar  expressions  are  intended to
identify  "forward-looking   statements"  within  the  meaning  of  the  Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act of  1995.  All  assumptions,  anticipations,
expectations and forecasts contained herein are forward-looking  statements that
involve  risks and  uncertainties.  Discussions  in "MD&A"  about the  Company's
estimated  completion dates for phases of the Company's Year 2000 plan,  related
cost estimates,  statements  about possible effects of the year 2000 Problem and
the Euro  Issue,  and  possible  contingency  plans  are  also  "forward-looking
statements."  Such  statements  are subject to certain risks and  uncertainties,
including  those  discussed  under the  caption  "Risk  Factors  and  Cautionary
Statements"  below,  that could cause actual results to differ  materially  from
historical  earnings and those presently  anticipated or projected.  The Company
wishes  to  caution   readers   not  to  place   undue   reliance  on  any  such
forward-looking statements,  which speak only as of the date made, and should be
read in conjunction with the risk disclosure below. The Company wishes to advise
readers  that the factors  listed  below could  affect the  Company's  financial
performance  and could cause the Company's  actual results for future periods to
differ  materially  from any opinions or  statements  expressed  with respect to
future periods in any current statements.

The Company will not  undertake  and  specifically  declines any  obligation  to
release  publicly  the  result  of  any  revisions  which  may  be  made  to any
forward-looking  statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of
such  statements or to reflect the occurrence of  anticipated  or  unanticipated
events.

Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements

The Company's revenues and income are derived primarily from the management of a
variety of financial  services  products.  The  financial  services  industry is
highly competitive, as discussed above. Such competition could negatively impact
the Company's  market share,  which could impact assets under  management,  from
which the bulk of the Company's revenues and income arise.

The Company is in competition  with the financial  services and other investment
alternatives offered by stock brokerage and investment banking firms,  insurance
companies,   banks,   savings  and  loan   associations   and  other   financial
institutions.  Such  competition  could  negatively  impact the Company's market
share,  revenues and net income. Sales of mutual fund shares and other financial
services products can also be negatively  affected by adverse general securities
market  conditions,   currency   fluctuations,   governmental   regulations  and
recessionary global economic conditions.

Securities dealers,  whose large retail  distribution  systems play an important
role in the sale of shares of the  Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series funds,
also sponsor competing  proprietary mutual funds. To the extent that these firms
limit or restrict the sale of Franklin,  Templeton or Mutual Series funds shares
through  their  brokerage  systems in favor of their  proprietary  mutual funds,
future sales may be  negatively  impacted and the  Company's  revenues  might be
adversely affected.  In addition, as the number of competitors in the investment
management   industry   increases,   greater  demands  are  placed  on  existing
distribution channels, which has caused distribution costs to increase.

The inability of the Company to compete and to distribute  and sell its products
effectively  would have a negative effect on the Company's level of assets under
management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

Many of the Company's  competitors have substantially greater resources than the
Company. In addition, there has been a trend of consolidation in the mutual fund
industry which has resulted in stronger  competitors.  The banking industry also
continues to expand its  sponsorship of proprietary  funds  distributed  through
third party distributors. To the extent that banks limit or restrict the sale of
Franklin,  Templeton or Mutual Series shares through their distribution  systems
in favor of their  proprietary  mutual  funds,  assets  under  management  might
decline and the Company's revenues might be adversely affected.

Certain  portions of the Company's  managed  portfolios  are invested in various
securities of  corporations  located or doing business in developing  regions of
the world commonly known as emerging markets. These portfolios and the Company's
revenues  derived  from  the  management  of  such  portfolios  are  subject  to
significant   risks  of  loss  from   unfavorable   political   and   diplomatic
developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental
policies, expropriation,  nationalization, confiscation of assets and changes in
legislation relating to foreign ownership. Foreign trading markets, particularly
in some emerging market countries are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated
and significantly more volatile.

The Company's  assets under  management  include a significant  number of global
equities,  which increase the volatility of the Company's managed portfolios and
its revenue and income  streams.  From 1992 until  mid-1998  equity  investments
increased as a percentage of the Company's assets under management. The shift in
the  Company's  asset  mix  from  primarily  fixed-income  to a  combination  of
fixed-income  and global equities has increased the possibility of volatility in
the  Company's  managed  portfolios  due to the  increased  percentage of equity
investments managed. Declines in global securities markets that affect the value
of these  equities,  recently have caused and in the future will cause,  revenue
declines  and may have a  material  adverse  impact on the  Company's  business,
financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the Company derives
higher revenues and income from its equity assets and therefore shifts in assets
from equity to fixed-income would have an adverse impact on the Company's income
and revenues.

The Company's  ability to meet  anticipated cash needs is dependent upon factors
including the value of the Company's assets, the creditworthiness of the Company
as perceived by lenders and the market value of the Company's stock.  Similarly,
the Company's  ability to securitize  future  portfolios of auto loan and credit
card  receivables  would also be affected by the  market's  perception  of those
portfolios,  finance rates offered by  competitors,  and the general  market for
private debt. The Company's  inability to meet cash needs for various reasons as
and when  required  could  have a  negative  affect on the  Company's  financial
condition and business operations.

Market values are affected by many things,  including  the general  condition of
national and world economics and the direction and volume of changes in interest
rates and/or  inflation  rates.  A significant  portion of the Company's  assets
under management are fixed-income securities. Fluctuations in interest rates and
in the yield curve will have an effect on fixed-income  assets under  management
as well as on the flow of monies to and from fixed-income funds and,  therefore,
on the Company's revenues from such funds. In addition, the impact of changes in
the equity  marketplace may significantly  affect assets under  management.  The
effects of the foregoing  factors on equity funds and  fixed-income  funds often
operate inversely and it is,  therefore,  difficult to predict the net effect of
any particular set of conditions on the level of assets under management.

A number of mutual fund  sponsors  presently  market their funds  without  sales
charges.  As  investor  interest  in the mutual  fund  industry  has  increased,
competitive   pressures  have  increased  on  sales  charges  of   broker-dealer
distributed funds. In response to such competitive pressures,  the Company might
be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges,  substantially  all of which
are currently paid to  broker-dealers  and other financial  intermediaries.  The
reduction in such sales  charges  could make the sale of shares of the Franklin,
Templeton  and  Mutual  Series  funds  less  attractive  to  the   broker-dealer
community,  which could in turn have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
revenues.  In the  alternative,  the Company might be required to pay additional
fees,  commissions or charges in connection with the  distribution of its shares
which could have a negative effect on the Company's earnings.

Sales of Class II shares have increased relative to the Company's overall sales,
resulting  in higher  distribution  expenses,  which  have  caused  distribution
expenses to exceed distribution revenues for certain products and put increasing
pressure  on the  Company's  profit  margins.  If the  Company is unable to fund
commissions  on Class II shares using  existing  cash flow and debt  facilities,
additional  funding  will be  necessary.  Past  sales of Class II shares are not
necessarily  indicative  of future  sales  volume,  and future sales of Class II
shares  may be lower or higher  as a result of  changes  in  investor  demand or
lessened or unsuccessful sales efforts by the Company.

As a result of  increased  competitive  pressures,  the  Company is  planning to
implement a new class of shares generally referred to as "B" shares,  which have
no upfront sales charges paid by investors.  However, such charges will still be
paid to  third  party  intermediaries,  which  will  create a  significant  cash
requirement.  The  Company  anticipates  that it will be able to  finance  these
charges from its existing  cash flows and credit  facilities.  In the event that
future  cash flows and credit  facilities  are  insufficient  to meet these cash
requirements, the Company's liquidity could be negatively impacted.

The Company's  real estate  activities are subject to  fluctuations  in the real
estate market place as well as to  significant  competition  from companies with
much larger real estate portfolios giving them  significantly  greater economies
of scale.

The  Company's  auto  loan  receivables  business  and  credit  card  receivable
activities are subject to  significant  fluctuations  in those  consumer  market
places as well as to  significant  competition  from  companies with much larger
receivable  portfolios.  In addition,  certain of the Company's  competitors are
engaged  in the  financing  of  auto  loans  in  connection  with a much  larger
automobile   manufacturing   businesses  and  may  at  times  provide  loans  at
significantly  below  market  interest  rates in order  to  further  the sale of
automobiles.

The consumer loan market is highly  competitive.  The Company competes with many
types of institutions including banks, finance companies,  credit unions and the
finance  subsidiaries  of large  automobile  manufacturers.  Interest  rates the
Company can charge  and,  therefore,  its yields vary based on this  competitive
environment. The Company is reliant on its relationships with various automobile
dealers and this  relationship is highly dependent on the rates and service that
the Company provides. There is no guarantee that in this competitive environment
the Company can maintain its  relationships  with these  dealers.  Auto loan and
credit card portfolio  losses can also be influenced  significantly by trends in
the economy and credit markets which  negatively  impact  borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.


Item 2.   Properties
General

As of September 30, 1998,  the Company  leased  offices and facilities in twelve
(12)  locations  in the  immediate  vicinity  of  its  principal  executive  and
administrative  offices  located at 777 Mariners  Island  Boulevard,  San Mateo,
California.  In addition,  the Company owns seven (7) buildings near Sacramento,
California,  as well as six (6) buildings in St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  two (2)
buildings in Nassau,  Bahamas as well as  substantial  space in high rise office
buildings in Argentina  and  Singapore.  Certain  properties of the Company were
under  construction  during fiscal 1998 as described below. Since the Company is
operated on a unified  basis,  corporate  activities,  fund related  activities,
accounting operations, sales, real estate and banking operations, auto loans and
credit cards, management information system activities,  publishing and printing
operations,  shareholder  service  operations and other business  activities and
operations  take  place in a  variety  of such  locations.  The  Company  or its
subsidiaries  also lease  office  space in  Florida,  New York,  and Utah and in
several other states and in Australia,  Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Dubai, England,
France,  Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan,  Luxembourg,  Poland,  Russia,
Scotland, South Africa, Taiwan, and Vietnam.


Property Description

Leased

As of September  30, 1998,  the Company  leased  properties at the locations set
forth below:


                              Approximate       Approximate        Expiration
Location                     Square Footage    Current Base           Date
                                              Monthly Rental
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
777 Mariners Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404               176,000         $435,000      September 2009

1147 & 1149 Chess Drive
Foster City, CA  94404             121,000         $114,000       June 2000

500 East Broward Boulevard
Ft. Lauderdale, FL  33394          121,000         $217,000     December 2000

555 Airport Boulevard
Burlingame, CA                      94,000         $216,000       June 2006

1800 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA 94404                 70,000         $207,000      August 2002

1810 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                52,000         $112,000       June 2000

2 Waters Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                49,000          $70,000       July 1999

1950 Elkhorn Court
San Mateo, CA  94403                37,000          $43,000       July 2001

901  &  951  Mariners  Island                                   Between March
Boulevard                           36,000          $72,000   1999 & April 2000
San Mateo, CA  94404

2000 Alameda de las Pulgas          36,000         $118,000     February 2005
San Mateo, CA 94403

51 JFK Parkway
Short Hills, NJ                     28,000          $70,000        May 2005

1850 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404                19,000          $34,000       July 2000

1400 Fashion Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404                17,000          $52,000       June 2002

Other U.S. Locations                50,000               --              --
Foreign Operations                 201,000               --              --

Owned

The Company  maintains a customer  service facility in the property that it owns
at 10600 White Rock Road,  Rancho  Cordova,  California.  The  Company  occupies
75,000  square feet in this  property and has leased out 46,000 square feet to a
third party until March 1999 at an approximate  monthly  rental of $69,000.  The
Company owns an additional twenty-seven (27) acres of adjoining land on which it
has constructed four (4) office buildings totaling  approximately 303,000 square
feet and a data center/warehouse  facility of approximately 162,000 square feet.
The Company also owns a warehouse building in Rancho Cordova, California that is
approximately 69,000 square feet in size.

The Company owns six (6)  facilities in St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  including an
approximate 90,000 square foot office building and an approximate 117,000 square
foot facility devoted to a computer data center, training, warehouse and mailing
operations.  Four (4) new office buildings of  approximately  70,000 square feet
each  have  been  built by the  Company  and were  occupied  in  November  1997.
Shareholder  servicing activities have been relocated to this new 280,000 square
foot campus development. During November 1998, the Company began construction of
a fifth office building in this campus and plans to occupy this building in June
2000.

The Company owns two (2) office buildings in Nassau,  Bahamas,  of approximately
14,000 square feet and approximately 25,000 square feet,  respectively,  as well
as a nearby  condominium  residence.  The Company  also owns three (3)  separate
office-building  floors of approximately  1,200, 8,000 and 10,000 square feet in
Shanghai, China, Buenos Aires, Argentina and Singapore, respectively.

Other

The Company is a joint  tenant  with a 60%  undivided  interest in the  property
occupied by the Company at 777 Mariners Island Boulevard, San Mateo, California.
The joint  venture  acquired the property  through a  distribution  from Mariner
Partners,  a California  limited  partnership  of which the Company was the sole
limited partner. The joint venture assumed the existing thirty-year non-recourse
financing  for the  property  from  Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Company at an
interest  rate of 8.10% per annum,  due November  2002.  The  principal  balance
outstanding as of September 30, 1998 was $24.0 million.

Property Changes

In December 1997, the Company  entered into a contract to acquire  approximately
thirty-three  (33)  acres of  undeveloped  land ("Bay  Meadows")  located in San
Mateo,  California for a total estimated  purchase price of approximately  $21.6
million.  The Company has made a non-refundable  escrow deposit of approximately
$1.75  million  and in  addition  has  expended  approximately  $2.2  million in
architectural  and development fees. As a condition to approval of the Company's
planned  use of the Bay  Meadows  property,  the City of San Mateo has  required
construction of roads,  modification to a freeway interchange and other off-site
improvements.  The Company is obligated  to reimburse  the seller of Bay Meadows
for a portion of the cost of certain of these off-site improvements. The Company
has been  advised  by the  seller  that  the  Company's  share of such  off-site
improvements  may exceed $20 million.  The Company is presently  reviewing these
costs.  A  definitive  closing date for the purchase of the property has not yet
been set.

The Company  also  executed a design  build  contract  in July 1997,  subject to
acquisition of the property,  for the design and  construction  of a new 900,000
square foot campus at Bay Meadows.  The total contract  amount will not be final
until after the project is completely  designed and building  permits are issued
by the City of San Mateo,  California,  but is  anticipated to cost in excess of
$180 million.

Item 3.   Pending Legal Proceedings

Three  complaints  were filed by the same law firm,  in January  1998,  February
1998, and September 1998, in the U. S. District Court for the Southern  District
of Florida,  against Templeton Asset Management,  Ltd., an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary  of  the  Company  and  the  investment  manager  of  the  closed-end
investment  company,  Templeton Vietnam  Opportunities  Fund, Inc. (now known as
Templeton Vietnam and Southeast Asia Fund, Inc.); certain of the Fund's officers
and directors; the Company; and Templeton Worldwide, Inc., a Company subsidiary.

The suits are captioned James C. Roumell, plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management,  Ltd., et al., (Civil
Action No.  98-6059),  Michael J. Wetta,  plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others  similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management,  Ltd., et al. (Civil
Action No. 98-6170); and Richard Waksman, plaintiff on behalf of himself and all
others  similarly  situated v. Templeton Asset  Management  Ltd., et al., (Civil
Action No.98-7059).

All three complaints allege that the defendants  committed various violations of
the Investment Company Act of 1940, relating to the Fund's decision to conduct a
tender  offer  commencing  at the end of 1997.  Wetta is also  seeking to assert
claims  under  the  Investment  Advisers  Act of  1940  and  Maryland  law.  The
complaints seek monetary  damages  apparently in excess of $40 million and other
relief. Wetta is seeking an order rescinding Templeton Asset Management,  Ltd.'s
advisory  contract with the Fund and  restitution of all amounts paid under such
contract.  Although the plaintiffs have asserted claims against the directors of
the Fund and certain of its  officers,  they have not asserted  claims  directly
against the Fund,  which is named only as a "nominal  defendant" from which they
seek no  recovery.  Wetta has  included  two claims by which he is  seeking  the
above-mentioned relief in favor of the Fund.

The Company and the other defendants have moved to dismiss the Roumell and Wetta
cases  on  various   legal   grounds   including  the  fact  that  the  lawsuits
mischaracterize  the "fundamental  policies" of the Fund and fail to acknowledge
the  basic  investment  objective  of  the  Fund  to  pursue  long-term  capital
appreciation.  The defendants will be moving to dismiss the Waksman complaint on
similar grounds in the near future.  Management believes that these lawsuits are
without merit and intends to defend such actions vigorously.

In addition, the Company is involved from time to time in litigation relating to
claims  arising in the normal  course of business.  Management is of the opinion
that the  ultimate  resolution  of such  claims will not  materially  affect the
Company's business or financial position.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report,  no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Information About the Company's Common Stock
The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and
the Pacific  Exchange,  Inc.  under the ticker  symbol BEN and the London  Stock
Exchange  under the ticker symbol FKR. On September 30, 1998,  the closing price
of the Company's  common stock on the NYSE was $29 7/8 per share. At December 8,
1998, there were approximately  3,900  shareholders of record. In addition,  the
Company  estimates that there are approximately  46,000 beneficial  shareholders
whose shares are held in street name.

The  following  table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock from the NYSE  Composite  Tape. All sales prices have been adjusted
retroactively to reflect the 1997 and 1998 stock dividends.


                                1998 Fiscal Year          1997 Fiscal Year
Quarter                          High        Low          High        Low
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October-December               51 7/8     39 3/4       24 7/8        21 9/16
January-March                  57 1/4     38           32 9/16       22 1/8
April-June                     57 7/8     47 9/16      37 1/8        25 15/16
July-September                 54 7/8     253/4        47 1/4        36 1/4

The Company  declared  dividends of $0.20 per share in fiscal 1998 and $0.17 per
share in fiscal  1997.  The Company  expects to continue  paying  dividends on a
quarterly  basis to  common  stockholders  depending  upon  earnings  and  other
relevant factors.


Item 6.   Selected Financial Highlights


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operation.

General

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
derive  substantially  all of  their  revenues  and net  income  from  providing
investment management, administration,  distribution and related services to the
Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series funds,  institutional  accounts and other
investment products (collectively,  the "Franklin Templeton Group"). The Company
has a diversified base of assets under management and a full range of investment
products and services to meet the needs of most individuals and institutions.

At September  30, 1998,  the Company  offered its services in a number of global
markets,  featuring  offices  in  over 20  different  nations  in six  different
continents and employing over 8,600 people.

On November 1, 1996,  the Company  acquired the assets and  liabilities of Heine
Securities  Corporation  ("Heine") (the  "Acquisition"),  the former  investment
advisor to what is now known as Franklin  Mutual  Series Fund Inc.,  other funds
and private accounts  ("Mutual").  See Notes 2 and 6 to the Financial Statements
and the outline of useful lives of intangible assets included in this discussion
under Operating Expenses.

Assets Under Management
- -----------------------
in billions
As of September 30,
                                      1998              1997             1996
Franklin Templeton Group:
EQUITY

  Global/international               $84.8            $107.3            $65.8
  Domestic (U.S.)                     34.8              35.9              8.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total equity                       119.6             143.2             74.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HYBRID FUNDS                      14.0              14.1             12.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIXED-INCOME

  Tax-free                            50.5              45.8             42.5
  Taxable
     Domestic (primarily
      U.S. Government)                16.0              15.3             15.9
     Global/international              3.7               3.9              3.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total fixed-income                  70.2              65.0             61.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MONEY FUNDS                            4.8               3.7              3.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total end of period               $208.6            $226.0           $151.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Monthly average for the year      $226.9            $192.0           $141.1


 Hybrid funds include asset allocation,  balanced, flexible and income-mixed
funds as defined by the Investment Company Institute. Previously these funds had
been included primarily in the equity category.


The Company's  revenues are derived  largely from the amount and  composition of
assets under management.

Assets under  management  at September  30, 1998,  were $17.4 billion (8%) lower
than they were at September 30, 1997. This decline in assets occurred  primarily
as a result of market  depreciation in equity  portfolios during the last fiscal
quarter of 1998, as stock markets  adjusted to global equity turmoil.  Purchases
exceeded  redemptions  by $16.1 billion for the fiscal year,  and in each fiscal
quarter except the last, where redemptions  exceeded  purchases by $2.4 billion.
During  the  year   fixed-income   and  money  fund  assets  grew  8%  and  30%,
respectively,  as the  result of net fund  inflows  and market  appreciation  of
tax-free funds.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  amounts included in
the  Consolidated  Statements  of Income of  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  and the
percentage change in those amounts from period to period.



Net income and diluted  earnings  per share for 1998  increased  by 15% and 16%,
respectively,  principally  as a result of increased  investment  management fee
revenues.  Net income and diluted  earnings per share for 1997  increased by 38%
and 37%,  respectively,  also  principally  as a result of increased  investment
management fee revenues.

Operating Revenues

Investment  management  fees, the largest  component of the Company's  operating
revenues, are generally calculated under fixed fee arrangements, as a percentage
of the value of assets under  management.  Under various  investment  management
agreements, annual rates vary and generally decline as the average net assets of
the portfolios  exceed  certain  threshold  levels.  The majority of mutual fund
investment  management contracts are subject to periodic approval by each fund's
Board of  Directors/Trustees.  There  have been no  significant  changes  in the
investment  management fee structures  for the Franklin  Templeton  Group in the
periods  under  review.  The Company's  investment  management  fee revenues are
generally  affected  by market  appreciation  or  depreciation  in assets  under
management as well as the flow of funds into or out of these portfolios.

During 1998,  the Company  reclassified  revenues  relating to the  distribution
component of Canadian  revenues from Investment  management fees to Underwriting
and  distribution  fees. The Company  believes this change more closely  matches
revenue generated from distribution  services with the expenses incurred.  Prior
periods have been reclassified accordingly. Investment management fees increased
17%  and 45% in  fiscal  1998  and  1997,  respectively,  due to the 18% and 36%
increase  in  average  assets  under  management  during  these  periods.  These
increases reflect both market appreciation and net purchases of mutual funds.

The Company's effective  investment  management fee rate (investment  management
fees divided by average assets under management)  remained  relatively stable in
1998 at 0.62% compared to 0.63% in 1997.  The 1997 rate increased  significantly
from 1996 due to a shift in the Company's  asset mix toward more equity products
which  generally  have higher fee rates.  This shift was primarily the result of
the  addition  of Mutual  Series  products  to the  Company's  asset mix and the
general  growth in equity funds.  Future  changes in the  composition  of assets
under management may affect the effective investment management fee rates earned
by the Company.

Certain  subsidiaries of the Company act as distributors for its sponsored funds
and receive  commissions and  distribution  fees.  Underwriting  commissions are
earned primarily from fund sales.  Distribution  fees are generally based on the
level of assets under  management.  These  distribution fees include 12b-1 fees,
paid by the funds in reimbursement  for distribution  expenses  incurred up to a
maximum allowed by each fund. A significant portion of underwriting  commissions
and distribution fees are paid to selling intermediaries.  See the discussion of
the reclassification of Investment management fees above.

Underwriting  and  distribution  fees  increased  19% and 38% in 1998 and  1997,
respectively,  primarily  as a result  of  increases  in mutual  fund  sales and
average assets under management.

Shareholder  servicing  fees are  generally  fixed charges per account that vary
with the  particular  type of fund and the service being  rendered.  Shareholder
servicing  fees  increased  29% and  41% in 1998  and  1997,  respectively.  The
increases were a result of an increase in fund shareholder  accounts, as well as
an  increase in the average  per  account  charge for certain  funds  during the
second quarter of both 1998 and 1997.

Other, net consists primarily of revenues from the Company's banking and finance
subsidiaries,  net of interest expense and the provision for loan losses. Other,
net increased 93% and 116% in 1998 and 1997, respectively, primarily as a result
of lower  loan loss  provision  charges at the  Company's  banking  and  finance
subsidiaries. Actual gross charge offs decreased 38% in 1998 compared with a 43%
decrease in 1997.  Revenues remained  relatively stable as a result of increased
effective yields offset by 11% and 17% declines in average loans receivable,  in
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Banking/finance interest expense decreased in the
current periods due to a reduction in the average borrowing  requirements of the
banking/finance  group combined with a reduction in effective interest rates. As
described  in  Note  4  to  the  Financial  Statements,  the  securitization  of
approximately  $134.3  million of auto loans that occurred in September 1998 did
not have a material impact on operating revenues or results of operations.

The  Company  has  considered  the  potential   impact  of  the  effect  on  the
banking/finance  subsidiaries  of a 100 basis point movement in market  interest
rates  and does not  expect it would  have a  material  impact on the  Company's
operating revenues or results of operations.

Operating Expenses

Underwriting and distribution  includes sales  commissions and distribution fees
paid to brokers and other third-party intermediaries. During both 1998 and 1997,
underwriting  and  distribution  expenses  increased  consistent  with increased
mutual fund sales and average assets under management.

Compensation and benefits increased 24% and 38% in 1998 and 1997,  respectively,
reflecting  an increase in the number of  full-time  employees  and in temporary
labor  costs.  The  Company  experienced  upward  pressure on  compensation  and
benefits due to the  Company's  growth and expansion and due to the effects of a
very competitive labor market.

Information  systems,  technology and occupancy  costs  increased 34% and 53% in
1998 and 1997, respectively. During the past two years, the Company has embarked
upon major systems implementations,  Year 2000 corrections and European Monetary
Unit  preparations,   and  has  upgraded  its  network,   desktop  and  Internet
environments.  The Company anticipates that such major systems undertakings will
continue to have an impact on the Company's  operating  results through the year
2000 and beyond. See the Year 2000 discussion below.

Advertising  and  promotion  expenses  increased  30% and 35% in 1998 and  1997,
respectively,  mainly due to increased  promotional  activity and new  marketing
campaigns.

Sales  commissions on certain  Franklin  Templeton Group products sold without a
front-end  sales charge are capitalized and amortized over periods not exceeding
four  years -- the  period  in which  management  estimates  that  they  will be
recovered from  distribution  plan payments and from  contingent  deferred sales
charges.  Amortization  of deferred  sales  commissions  increased 77% and 146%,
respectively,  during  the  periods  under  review  as sales  of these  products
increased.

Amortization  of  intangibles  increased  in 1997 and  1998 as a  result  of the
Acquisition  (see Note 2 to the  Financial  Statements).  The Company has made a
determination to amortize goodwill and management  contracts over a period of 40
years.  Important  factors in arriving at this  conclusion  include the relative
stability of the mutual fund  industry,  industry  turnover  rates of investment
management  contracts,  the  Company's  own  experience,   and  its  performance
expectations regarding acquisitions.

Other Income (Expense)
- ----------------------

Investment  income  increased  15% in 1998 due to the  investment  of  increased
operating cash flows.  Investment and other income  declined in 1997 as a result
of the sale of a portion of the Company's  investment  portfolio used to finance
the Acquisition.

Interest  expense  decreased 11% in 1998,  primarily due to increased  operating
cash flows and to the  capitalization  of interest related to borrowings used to
finance  construction of a number of new office buildings in 1998.  During 1997,
interest expense increased 124% due to borrowings related to the Acquisition.

Taxes on Income
- ---------------

The Company's  effective  income tax rate  decreased from  approximately  30% in
fiscal  1997 and 31% in fiscal  1996 to  approximately  26% of pretax  income in
fiscal 1998 due to the relative  proportion  of non-U.S.  pretax  income and the
effects  of tax  law  changes.  The  effective  tax  rate  will  continue  to be
reflective of the relative contributions of foreign earnings that are subject to
reduced tax rates and that are not currently included in U.S. taxable income.

Financial Condition
- -------------------

At September 30, 1998, the Company's  assets  aggregated  $3.5 billion,  up from
$3.1  billion at September  30, 1997.  Stockholders'  equity  approximated  $2.3
billion  compared to  approximately  $1.9  billion at September  30,  1997.  The
increase in assets and stockholders'  equity was primarily a result of increased
net income  Outstanding  debt  (long-term and  short-term)  remained  relatively
stable at $612.4  million at September 30, 1998,  compared to $611.6  million at
September 30, 1997.  The  Company's  ratio of earnings  (before  taxes) to fixed
charges  (interest  and the interest  factor on rent)  improved to 13.8 for 1998
compared to 12.0 for 1997. The Company's  interest coverage ratio (pretax income
before  interest  expense  divided  by  interest  expense)  was 17.8 for 1998 as
compared to 14.2 for 1997. The Company's  overall weighted average interest rate
at September 30, 1998,  including the effect of  interest-rate  swap agreements,
was 6.2% on $567.2  million of  outstanding  commercial  paper and notes payable
(medium-term  notes)  as  compared  to  6.3% on  $569.7  million  of  such  debt
outstanding at September 30, 1997.

Cash provided by operating  activities increased to $693.7 million in 1998, from
$428.5  million and $359.6  million in 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  During the
year ended  September 30, 1998,  the Company used net cash of $478.5 million for
investing activities.  $494.5 million was used to purchase  investments,  $162.2
million  was used to  purchase  property  and  equipment  and $64.3  million was
related to the Acquisition. These amounts were partially offset by proceeds from
the  securitization  of auto  loans and sales of  investments.  Net cash used in
financing  activities  during the year was $101.9  million,  compared  to $105.5
million  provided by  financing  activities  in 1997,  primarily  as a result of
$247.5  million less debt issued in 1998.  During fiscal 1998,  the Company paid
$49.3 million in dividends to stockholders and purchased 1,309,981 shares of its
common stock for $42.6 million.

The Company's  auto loan and credit card  receivables  business  activities  are
subject  to  fluctuations  in  those  consumer  market  places,  as  well  as to
competition from companies with much larger receivable portfolios. Auto loan and
credit card portfolio results can also be influenced  significantly by trends in
the economy and credit markets that may negatively impact borrowers'  ability to
repay loans.  Credit card and auto loans  receivable  decreased from 1997 levels
due to the  impact of a  securitization  of auto  loans with a net book value of
approximately $134.3 million in September 1998. The Company used the proceeds of
$131.4 million to reduce the Company's debt and to supplement  working  capital.
As a result of its more  stringent  underwriting  policies,  improved  auto loan
collection efforts and enhanced systems supporting those activities, the Company
has  experienced a decrease in loan losses since  September 30, 1996. Any future
increases  in the  Company's  investment  in dealer  auto loan and  credit  card
portfolios are expected to be funded either through existing debt facilities and
operating cash flows or through future securitizations of the portfolios.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At  September  30,  1998,  the  Company  held  $556.0  million  in cash and cash
equivalents, as compared to $442.7 million at September 30, 1997. Liquid assets,
which consist of cash and cash equivalents,  investments  available-for-sale and
current  receivables  increased to $1,278.6  million at September  30, 1998 from
$889.7 million at September 30, 1997.  Revolving credit  facilities at September
30,  1998  aggregated  $500  million of which $200  million  was under a 364-day
facility.  The  remaining  $300  million  facility  will expire in May 2003.  At
September 30, 1998,  approximately  $490.7  million was available to the Company
under unused commercial paper and medium-term note programs.

Management  expects that the  principal  needs for cash will be to advance sales
commissions,  fund  increased  property  and  equipment  acquisitions  including
information  systems,  pay  stockholder  dividends and service debt.  Management
believes that the Company's  existing liquid assets,  together with the expected
continuing  cash flow from  operations,  its  borrowing  capacity  under current
credit  facilities and its ability to issue stock will be sufficient to meet its
present and reasonably foreseeable cash needs.

Results of  operations  will  continue to be  dependent  upon  general  economic
growth,  the  strength  of capital  markets  and the  Company's  ability to meet
investor demands with competitive products and services. Operating revenues will
be dependent upon the amount and composition of assets under management,  mutual
fund sales, and the number of mutual fund investors,  private and  institutional
clients.

Despite the Company's  global  presence,  a  substantial  portion of its foreign
subsidiaries'  revenues and the majority of their  monetary  assets are U.S. and
Canadian dollar  denominated.  Over 95% of the Company's operating revenues were
earned in U.S. and  Canadian  dollars in both 1998 and 1997.  Despite  increased
fluctuation in world currency markets, the Company's exposure is limited and the
Company  has not deemed it  necessary  to enter into  foreign  currency  hedging
activities.

The Company  participates  in the  financial  derivatives  markets to manage its
exposure to variable  interest-rate  fluctuations on a portion of its commercial
paper.  The Company has entered into  interest-rate  swap  agreements to convert
interest payment  obligations under variable-rate debt instruments to fixed-rate
interest  payment  obligations.  Through its  interest-rate  swap agreements and
medium-term note program, the Company has fixed the rates of interest it pays on
82% of its outstanding debt. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements.

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

Background.  Many of the world's  computer  systems  currently record years in a
two-digit format. Such computer systems may be unable to recognize, interpret or
use dates in and beyond the year 1999 correctly.  Because the activities of many
businesses are affected by dates or are date-related,  the inability to use such
date information correctly could lead to business disruptions both in the United
States and internationally (the "Year 2000 Problem").

Year 2000  Impact.  The  Company's  businesses  rely on a complex  international
network of computer and  communications  systems which are owned and operated by
the Company and by third parties.  The short time frames within which securities
prices must be  transmitted  and received,  trade orders  placed and taken,  and
monies  transferred  -- all  utilizing  these systems -- increases the potential
impact of the Year 2000 Problem for the securities industry.

The Company is most dependent upon its mission-critical  systems, those that are
required to perform its core business activities. The most important of these is
its domestic  transfer agency system,  which is the  shareholder  record keeping
system used to process  transactions  for the majority of the  Company's  mutual
fund  shareholders.  The transfer  agency system is a  third-party  system which
interfaces with the Company's internal  sub-systems.  Although the vendor of the
transfer  agency  system has  contractually  committed  to the Company  that the
system will be made Year 2000 compliant,  the vendor  presently is behind in its
timetable  to  achieve  such   compliance.   Because  certain   mission-critical
sub-systems  cannot be tested until the transfer agency system is made Year 2000
compliant,  the time frame for testing and any remediation of these  sub-systems
has been shortened.  Notwithstanding  such delays,  the Company believes that it
will complete its required  testing in a time frame  necessary to participate in
the Securities Industry Association ("SIA") testing currently scheduled to begin
in March 1999.

The Year 2000 Plan. As the Year 2000 plan progresses,  the Company will focus on
Year 2000  certification  of its core  mission-critical  information  technology
("IT") systems,  prioritizing  them over other IT systems,  and  prioritizing IT
systems in general over non-IT systems.

Because the Year 2000 project is an ongoing company-wide  endeavor, the state of
the Company's progress changes daily. The Company's Year 2000 compliance plan is
comprised of four phases: Assessment,  Remediation,  Testing and Implementation.
The Company  currently  plans to complete  all phases of its Year 2000 plan with
respect to mission-critical  systems by September 1999 and with respect to other
important systems as soon as possible  thereafter,  but in any event by December
31, 1999. Due to the large number of systems used  worldwide by the Company,  it
is most useful to focus on the status of  mission-critical  systems, as outlined
below.


            Phase of                                   % of Mission
            Project                                 Critical Complete
            ------------                           ---------------------
            Assessment                                     75%
            Remediation                                    50%
            Testing                                        30%
            Implementation                                 30%


Assessment:  systems  are  inventoried,  budgets and  strategies  are created to
address identified problems.  Remediation:  software  corrections,  upgrades and
other fixes are made;  questionnaires requesting Year 2000 compliance assurances
are sent to vendors  and, in some cases,  test scripts are  requested.  Testing:
internal  systems  are tested on a  stand-alone  basis;  point-to-point  testing
between  the  Company  and  third   parties  is  conducted   for  some  systems.
Implementation:  systems that have been  identified as being Year 2000 compliant
are put into normal business operation; end-user training is conducted.

Non-IT Systems.  Other than third-party  long distance  telephone and data lines
and public utility electrical power, the Company's  business  operations are not
heavily  dependent on non-IT  components  or systems,  and none of the Company's
mission-critical  systems is a non-IT system.  The Company estimates that it has
completed  approximately  50% to 75% of its assessment of the  Company-owned  or
- -managed non-IT components  including  building,  mechanical,  air conditioning,
electrical and security systems.

Third  Parties and Year 2000.  The  Company's  business  operations  are heavily
dependent  upon a complex  worldwide  network of IT  systems  that are owned and
managed by third parties;  including  data feeds,  trading  systems,  securities
transfer agent  operations and stock market links. The Company has contacted all
of its  major  external  suppliers  of  goods,  services  and data  (other  than
suppliers of electricity  or long distance data and  voicelines) to assess their
compliance  efforts  and the  Company's  exposure  in the event of a failure  of
third-party  compliance efforts. The Company is in the process of validating and
reviewing the responses from these suppliers of mission-critical  systems and in
some  cases  is  seeking   additional   information,   written   assurances   of
certification, or test scripts.

Cost  Estimates.   The  total  estimated  costs  associated  with  the  required
modifications  to become  Year 2000  compliant  range  from $50  million  to $60
million,  not all of which  is  incremental  to the  Company's  operations.  The
estimated costs consist mainly of internal and third-party labor costs which are
expensed as incurred. The total amount expended on the project through September
30, 1998 was approximately  $13 million.  The Company believes that its existing
liquid assets,  together with expected cash flow from operations,  combined with
its borrowing  capacity under existing  credit  facilities will be sufficient to
fund anticipated expenditures.

The  Company's  estimates  of the total costs to complete  the Year 2000 project
will continue to be refined in future  periods.  As is indicated in the analysis
above,  approximately  75% to 80% of the expected costs of the Year 2000 project
have not yet been incurred.  The Company  anticipates that its expenditures will
increase  during the next  fiscal  year as it moves the  majority of its efforts
from the relatively  inexpensive  assessment  phase to the more costly phases of
testing and remediation.

CONTINGENCY  PLANNING.  The Company is beginning to develop a contingency  plan,
including  identification  of those  mission  critical  systems  for which it is
practical to develop a contingency plan. However, in an operation as complex and
geographically   distributed  as  the  Company's   business  there  are  limited
alternatives to certain of its mission-critical  systems or public utilities. If
certain  public  utilities or  mission-critical  systems,  such as the Company's
domestic transfer agency system, are not made Year 2000 compliant or fail, there
would be a  material  adverse  impact  upon the  Company's  business,  financial
condition  and results of  operations.  Although  the  Company is  investigating
alternative solutions,  it is unlikely that any adequate contingency plan can be
developed for such failures.

European Monetary Unit (The "Euro")
- -----------------------------------

On January 1, 1999, a single  currency  for the  European  Economic and Monetary
Union is  scheduled to replace the national  currency for  participating  member
countries which include countries in which the Company has offices or with which
it does substantial business.  Many of the Company's managed funds and financial
products have  substantial  investments in countries  whose  currencies  will be
replaced by the Euro. All aspects of the Company's investment process, including
trading,  foreign  exchange,  payments,  settlements,  cash accounts,  custodial
accounts and accounting will be affected by the  implementation of the Euro (the
"Euro Issue"). The Company has created an interdepartmental  team to address the
Euro Issue and is communicating with its external partners and vendors to assess
their readiness to manage the Euro Issue.

The  establishment  of  the  Euro  may  result  in  market  volatility,   expose
investments to currency risk due to fluctuations in multiple currencies,  change
the economic  environment  and behavior of investors,  or change the competitive
environment for the Company's business in Europe. Similarly, companies operating
in more than one  country,  such as the  Company,  may gain or lose  competitive
advantages  because  of the  Euro in ways  that are not  predictable.  It is not
currently  possible  to  predict  the  impact  of the  Euro on the  business  or
financial condition of European issuers which  Company-sponsored  funds may hold
in their portfolios or the impact on the value of fund shares.

The Company is not presently able to assess the cost impact of the Euro Issue on
the  Company,  but does not  presently  anticipate  that it will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's cash flows, operations or operating results. The
Company is generally  expensing costs incurred relating to the Euro Issue during
the period in which they are incurred.

SPECIFIC RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE YEAR 2000 AND THE EURO.
- ---------------------------------------------------------
The  Company's  ability to manage the Year 2000  Problem  and the Euro Issue are
subject to  uncertainties  beyond its control that could cause actual results to
differ  materially  from  what has been  discussed  above.  Factors  that  could
influence  the effect of the Year 2000  Problem  and the Euro Issue  include the
success of the Company in identifying  systems and programs that are affected by
the Year 2000 Problem and the Euro Issue (for  example,  it is possible that the
SIA testing may reveal  additional  problems in the  Company's  systems).  Other
facts  include  the  nature  and amount of  testing,  remediation,  programming,
installation  and systems  work  required  to upgrade or to replace  each of the
affected  programs or systems;  the rate,  magnitude and availability of related
labor and  consulting  costs;  the  success  of the  Company in  correcting  its
internal  systems  and  the  success  of the  Company's  external  partners  and
suppliers in addressing their respective Year 2000 Problems and the Euro Issue.

The failure of organizations  such as those mentioned above under "Third Parties
and Year 2000" to resolve their own issues with respect to the Year 2000 Problem
or the  Euro  Issue  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's
business,  financial  condition  and results of  operations.  The Company  could
become  subject to legal claims in the event of any Year 2000 or Euro problem in
the Company's business operations. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities which could impose
sanctions  or fines or cause the Company to cease  operations.  Also,  investors
concerned  about the Year 2000 Problem or the Euro Issue could  withdraw  monies
from the Company's funds resulting in a decline in assets under management which
could have a material  adverse  effect upon the  Company's  business,  financial
condition and results of operations.




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

IN THOUSANDS

EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
                                      1998             1997              1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING REVENUES
   Investment management fees      $1,413,273       $1,203,923          $827,426
   Underwriting and
     distribution fees                982,647          823,677           598,297
   Shareholder servicing fees         160,560          124,905            88,715
   Other, net                          20,792           10,770             5,035
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating revenues         2,577,272        2,163,275         1,519,473
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


OPERATING EXPENSES
   Underwriting and distribution     841,706          712,328           518,122
   Compensation and benefits         553,085          447,169           325,135
   Information systems, technology
     and occupancy                   181,665          135,391            88,500
   Advertising and promotion         125,925           96,552            71,655
   Amortization of deferred
     sales commissions               105,405           59,468            24,237
   Amortization of intangible
     assets                           36,857           34,294            18,348
   Other                              90,533           86,613            56,368
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating expenses        1,935,176        1,571,815         1,102,365

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Operating income                642,096          591,460           417,108

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Investment and other income      56,723           49,586            50,458
     Interest expense                (22,535)         (25,333)          (11,336)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Other income, net                34,188           24,253            39,122
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Income before taxes on income   676,284          615,713           456,230
     Taxes on income                 175,834          181,650           141,500
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                     $500,450         $434,063          $314,730
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Earnings per Share
         Basic                         $1.98            $1.72             $1.30
         Diluted                       $1.98            $1.71             $1.25


The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

IN THOUSANDS
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,
                                                      1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Assets

CURRENT ASSETS
     Cash and cash equivalents                       $537,188         $434,864
     Receivables
         Franklin Templeton funds                     204,826          213,547
         Other                                         25,773           20,315
     Investment securities, available-for-sale        470,065          189,674
     Prepaid expenses and other                        22,137           20,039
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Total current assets                           1,259,989          878,439


BANKING/FINANCE ASSETS
     Cash and cash equivalents                         18,855            7,877
     Loans receivable, net                            165,074          296,188
     Investment securities, available-for-sale         21,847           24,232
     Other                                              4,991            3,739
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Total banking/finance assets                     210,767          332,036


OTHER ASSETS
     Deferred sales commissions                       123,508          119,537
     Property and equipment, net                      349,229          241,224
     Intangible assets, net                         1,253,713        1,224,019
     Receivable from banking/finance group             87,282          203,787
     Other                                            195,561           96,158
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total other assets                             2,009,293         1,884,72
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Total assets                                  $3,480,049       $3,095,200

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

IN THOUSANDS
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,
                                                    1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

CURRENT LIABILITIES
     Compensation and benefits                    $156,253         $154,222
     Commissions                                    53,174           46,125
     Income taxes                                   67,319           31,908
     Short-term debt                               117,956          118,372
     Other                                          82,691           54,873
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Total current liabilities                     477,393          405,500



BANKING/FINANCE LIABILITIES
     Deposits
         Interest bearing                           81,615           91,433
         Non-interest bearing                        6,166            6,971
     Payable to Parent                              87,282          203,787
     Other                                           3,018            2,213
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total banking/finance liabilities             178,081          304,404


OTHER LIABILITIES
     Long-term debt                                494,459          493,244
     Other                                          49,349           37,831
     Total other liabilities                       543,808          531,075
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total liabilities                           1,199,282        1,240,979
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Commitments and Contingencies (Note 11)

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
     Preferred stock, $1.00 par value,
         1,000,000 shares
         authorized; none issued                           --                --
     Common stock, $0.10 par value,
         500,000,000 shares authorized;
         251,741,578 and 126,230,916 shares
         issued; 251,741,578 and
         126,031,900 shares outstanding,
         for 1998 and 1997, respectively                25,174           12,623
     Capital in excess of par value                     93,033           91,207
     Retained earnings                               2,194,835        1,757,536
     Less cost of treasury stock                            --          (11,070)
     Other                                             (32,275)           3,925
     Total stockholders' equity                      2,280,767        1,854,221
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity     $3,480,049       $3,095,200
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

















Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
derive  substantially  all of  their  revenues  and net  income  from  providing
investment management, administration,  distribution and related services to the
Franklin,  Templeton and Mutual Series funds,  institutional  accounts and other
investment  products (the "Franklin Templeton Group") that operate in the United
States,  Canada,  Europe and other international markets under various rules and
regulations  set forth by the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  individual
state agencies and foreign governments. Services to the Franklin Templeton Group
are  provided  under  contracts  that set forth the fees to be charged for these
services.  The majority of these  contracts  are subject to periodic  review and
approval by each fund's Board of Directors/Trustees and shareholders. Currently,
no fund's revenues  represent more than 10% of total revenues.  Company revenues
are  largely  dependent  on the total  value  and  composition  of assets  under
management, which include domestic and international equity and debt portfolios.
Accordingly,  fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets
under management impact the Company's revenues and operating results.

Basis of  Presentation.
- ----------------------
The consolidated  financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  which require the use of estimates made by the
Company's  management.  Actual amounts may differ from these estimates.  Certain
1996 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to 1998 presentation.

The  consolidated   financial   statements  include  the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries.  All material inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated except the inter-company  payable
from the banking/finance group to the parent to fund auto and credit card loans.
Operating  revenues of the  banking/finance  group are included in Other net and
are presented net of related interest expense and the provision for loan losses.
Accordingly, reported interest expense excludes interest expense attributable to
the banking/finance group.

Cash and Cash Equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, debt
instruments  with  original  maturities of three months or less and other highly
liquid investments,  including money market funds, which are readily convertible
into cash. Due to the relatively  short-term  nature of these  instruments,  the
carrying value approximates fair value.

Investment Securities, available-for-sale are carried at fair value. Fair values
for  investments in the Franklin  Templeton Group are based on the last reported
net  asset  value.  Fair  values  for  other  investments  are based on the last
reported  price on the  exchange  on which they are traded.  Realized  gains and
losses  are  included  in  investment   income   currently   based  on  specific
identification.  Unrealized  gains  and  losses  are  recorded  net  of tax as a
separate component of stockholders' equity until realized.

Derivatives.
- ------------
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial  instruments for trading
purposes.  The  Company  enters into  interest-rate  swap  agreements  to reduce
variable  interest  rate exposure with respect to its  commercial  paper.  Under
these  agreements the Company agrees to exchange,  at specified  intervals,  the
difference between fixed- and variable-interest  amounts calculated by reference
to an agreed-upon  notional  principal amount.  The  interest-rate  differential
between the fixed  pay-rate  and the  variable  receive-rate  is reflected as an
adjustment to interest expense over the life of the swaps.

At September  30, 1998 the Company  adopted  Statement  of Financial  Accounting
Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities".  This  standard  requires  that the  Company  recognize  derivative
instruments at fair value in its financial statements. As a result, on September
30, 1998 the Company  recognized  a net  interest  rate swap  liability  of $5.6
million,  estimated using the discounted  value of estimated  future cash flows.
Unrealized  gains and losses on these  instruments  are recorded net of tax as a
separate  component of stockholders'  equity.  These unrealized gains and losses
are recognized only on early termination of the agreements. The Company has not,
and does  not  intend  to,  terminate  these  agreements  prior to their  normal
expiration.

Loans  Receivable.
- ------------------
Interest on auto installment loans is accrued  principally using the rule of 78s
method,  which approximates the interest method.  Interest on all other loans is
accrued  using the simple  interest  method.  An  allowance  for loan  losses is
established monthly based on historical  experience,  including  delinquency and
loss  trends.  A loan  is  charged  to the  allowance  when it is  deemed  to be
uncollectible,  taking  into  consideration  the  value of the  collateral,  the
financial  condition  of the  borrower and other  factors.  Recoveries  on loans
previously  charged off as uncollectible  are credited to the allowance for loan
losses.

Deferred Sales Commissions.
- --------------------------
Sales  commissions paid to financial  intermediaries in connection with the sale
of shares of the Franklin  Templeton Group sold without a front-end sales charge
are  capitalized  and  amortized  over periods not  exceeding  four years -- the
periods  in  which  management  estimates  that  they  will  be  recovered  from
distribution plan payments and from contingent deferred sales charges.

Property  and  Equipment  are  recorded  at  cost  and  are  depreciated  on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the  straight-line  basis over their estimated  useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

Intangible Assets,  consisting principally of the estimated value of mutual fund
management  contracts and goodwill resulting from the acquisitions of the assets
of Templeton,  Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Heine Securities Corporation, are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over various lives ranging from 5 to 40
years.  The Company has  evaluated the  potential  impairment of its  intangible
assets on the basis of the expected  future  undiscounted  operating  cash flows
without  interest  charges to be derived  from these  assets in  relation to the
Company's  carrying  values and has determined  that there is no impairment.  At
some future period,  if such evaluations  indicate that the future  undiscounted
cash flows without  interest  charges are not sufficient to recover the carrying
value of such assets, the assets will be adjusted to their fair values.

Recognition of Revenues.
- -----------------------
Investment  management fees,  shareholder  servicing fees, investment income and
distribution fees are all recognized as earned. Underwriting commissions related
to the sale of the shares of the  Franklin  Templeton  Group are recorded on the
trade date.

Advertising  and Promotion.
- ---------------------------
Costs of advertising  and promotion are expensed as the  advertising  appears in
the media.

Foreign Currency Translation.
- -----------------------------
Assets  and  liabilities  of  foreign  subsidiaries  are  translated  at current
exchange rates as of the end of the accounting  period, and related revenues and
expenses are  translated at average  exchange rates in effect during the period.
Net exchange  gains and losses  resulting  from  translation  are excluded  from
income and are recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses are reflected in income currently.

Stock Splits.
- ------------
All common shares and per share  amounts have been adjusted to give  retroactive
effect to a three-for-two  stock split declared  December 1996 and a two-for-one
stock split  declared  December 1997.  Stockholders'  equity as of September 30,
1997 and 1996 has not been restated.

Dividends.
- ---------
During the years ended September 30, 1998,  1997 and 1996, the Company  declared
dividends to common stockholders of $0.20, $0.17 and $0.15, respectively.

Earnings  per Share.
- -------------------
During the year ended  September  30,  1998,  the Company  adopted  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 "Earnings Per Share" ("FAS 128"). FAS 128
requires  companies to present  basic and diluted  earnings  per share  ("EPS"),
instead of primary and fully diluted EPS which were formerly  required.  The new
standard also makes certain  modifications to EPS  calculations.  Under FAS 128,
diluted EPS amounts are computed by  reflecting  the  potential  impact of stock
options and restricted stock awards.  The impact on previously  reported EPS was
not material.

The  weighted  average  number of shares and common  stock  equivalents  used in
computing EPS in 1998,  1997 and 1996 were (in thousands)  252,723,  251,881 and
241,370 for basic and 252,941, 253,466 and 251,283 for diluted, respectively.

Stock-based  Compensation.
- --------------------------
As allowed under the provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation" ("FAS 123"), the Company has
elected to apply  Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees,"  and related  interpretations  in accounting for its
stock-based  plans.  Accordingly,  no  compensation  costs are  recognized  with
respect to stock  options  granted,  nor with respect to shares issued under the
Employee  Stock  Investment  Plan.  Compensation  expense is recognized  for the
matching  contribution that the Company may elect to make in connection with the
Employee Stock  Investment Plan over the  eighteen-month  holding period and for
the full cost of restricted stock grants in the year that they are earned.

NOTE 2 ACQUISITION

On November 1, 1996,  the Company  acquired the assets and  liabilities of Heine
Securities  Corporation  ("Heine") (the  "Acquisition"),  the former  investment
advisor to what is now known as Franklin  Mutual  Series Fund Inc.,  other funds
and private accounts  ("Mutual").  One of the Company's  subsidiaries,  Franklin
Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  now serves as the  investment  adviser to Mutual.  The
transaction  had a base purchase  price of  approximately  $616  million.  Heine
received $551 million in cash and 3.3 million  shares of common stock (after the
effects of the stock splits paid January 15, 1997 and 1998). The Acquisition has
been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting..

In addition to the base purchase price, the purchase agreement, as amended, also
provides for contingent  payments to Heine ranging from $96.25 million to $192.5
million under certain conditions if certain  agreed-upon growth targets are met.
Agreed-upon  growth targets range from 12.5% to 17.5% of management fee revenues
from Mutual over a five-year period from the date of the  Acquisition.  Payments
are  pro-rated  based upon the upper and lower range of the  targets.  The first
contingent  payment of $64.2 million related to these agreed-upon growth targets
was made in the third  quarter of fiscal 1998 and was  accounted for as goodwill
related to additional purchase price of the Acquisition.  Other payments are due
in fiscal  2000 and 2001 if  growth  targets  are met.  These  payments  are not
expected  to have a material  impact on the  Company's  financial  condition  or
results  of  operations.  The first  payment  was  funded  from cash on hand and
existing credit facilities.

NOTE 3 INVESTMENT SECURITIES





NOTE 4 BANKING/FINANCE GROUP LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES



For the years ended September 30, 1998,  1997 and 1996, the interest  expense of
the banking/finance  group included in other operating  revenues,  net was $17.8
million, $21.2 million and $25.6 million, respectively.

At  September  30,  1998 and  1997,  the  carrying  value  of  loans  receivable
approximated  fair value.  The fair value is estimated using interest rates that
consider  the current  credit and interest  rate risk  inherent in the loans and
current economic and lending conditions.

At September  30, 1998 and 1997,  the carrying  values of deposits  approximated
fair value.  The fair values of the banking  subsidiary's  demand deposit at the
reporting date are estimated  using interest rates  currently  offered on demand
deposits with similar remaining maturities.

In September 1998, the Company sold auto loans  receivable with a net book value
of  $134.3  million  to a  securitization  trust.  The  sale  proceeds  of  this
securitization were $131.4 million. Gain from the sale of these assets, computed
as the difference  between the sale proceeds,  net of transaction costs, and the
Company's  carrying  value of the  receivables,  plus the  present  value of the
estimated  excess  future cash flows to be received by the Company over the life
of the  securitization,  was  not  material.  Significant  assumptions  used  in
determining  the  gain  were an  excess  cash  flow  discount  rate of 12% and a
cumulative credit loss rate of 2.02%.

NOTE 5 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The  following is a summary of property and  equipment at September 30, 1998 and
1997:


                                          Useful Lives
in thousands                               In Years        1998        1997
 ................................................................................
  Furniture and equipment                      3-5        $301,857     $183,648
  Premises and leasehold improvements         5-35         155,206      126,561
  Land                                          --          24,811       27,984
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           481,874      338,193
  Less: Accumulated depreciation
   and amortization                                       (132,645)     (96,969)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          $349,229     $241,224
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The following is a summary of intangible assets at September 30, 1998 and 1997:


                                    Amortization
in thousands                       Period In Years         1998           1997
 ................................................................................
  Goodwill                               40           $842,206        $775,831
  Management contracts                   40            524,962         524,962
  Other intangibles                    5-15             31,546          31,546
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     1,398,714       1,332,339
 Accumulated amortization                             (145,001)       (108,320)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    $1,253,713      $1,224,019
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------






NOTE 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company conducts operations in five principal geographic areas of the world:
the United States,  Canada,  the Bahamas,  Europe and Asia/Pacific.  Revenues by
geographic  area include  fees and  commissions  charged to  customers  and fees
charged to affiliates.  Identifiable assets are those assets used exclusively in
the operations of each geographic area.

Information is summarized below:


(in thousands)                   1998              1997         1996
 ................................................................................
OPERATING REVENUES

  United States              $1,814,458        $1,665,076      $1,140,900
  Canada                        228,834           170,659         100,167
  Bahamas                       305,612           253,398         175,470
  Europe                        135,026            87,346          45,494
  Asia/Pacific                  159,391           177,588         113,900
  Eliminations                  (66,049)         (190,792)        (56,458)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                      $2,577,272        $2,163,275      $1,519,473
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OPERATING INCOME:

  United States                $258,193          $249,700        $193,821
  Canada                         68,077            49,374          29,131
  Bahamas                       225,980           175,518         115,826
  Europe                          2,071             1,629             742
  Asia/Pacific                   87,775           115,239          77,588
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                        $642,096          $591,460        $417,108
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS:

  United States              $1,321,179        $1,302,166         $848,156
  Canada                        117,878           122,335           69,547
  Bahamas                       440,882           449,112          432,088
  Europe                         33,133            32,028           24,912
  Asia/Pacific                  160,918           181,191          154,503
  Corporate assets            1,406,059         1,008,368          844,961
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                      $3,480,049        $3,095,200       $2,374,167
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





Summarized below are the business segments:

in thousands                                                         Operating
                                      Identifiable                    Income/
1998                                     Assets        Revenues       (Loss)
 ................................................................................
  Investment management              $1,863,223       $2,558,449      $637,444
  Banking/finance                       210,767           18,823         4,652
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Company totals                     $2,073,990       $2,577,272      $642,096
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ................................................................................
  Investment management              $1,754,796      $2,154,658       $596,562
  Banking/finance                       332,036           8,617         (5,102)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Company totals                     $2,086,832      $2,163,275       $591,460
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ................................................................................
  Investment management              $1,135,608      $1,516,294       $428,198
  Banking/finance                       393,598           3,179        (11,090)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Company totals                     $1,529,206      $1,519,473       $417,108
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  investment  management  segment's  assets  are  primarily  intangibles  and
receivables  from,  and  investments  in,  the  Franklin  Templeton  Group.  The
banking/finance   segment's  assets  are  primarily  investment  securities  and
consumer loans.

NOTE 8 DEBT

Debt at September 30, 1998 and 1997 was as follows:


                                    1998 Weighted
in thousands                     Average Interest Rate     1998         1997
 ................................................................................
SHORT-TERM DEBT

  Commercial paper                    5.47%             $59,300        $51,500
  Notes payable                       6.03%              50,000         60,000
  Other                                 --                8,656          6,872
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total short-term debt                                $117,956       $118,372
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------










                                      1998 Weighted
in thousands                      Average Interest Rate      1998         1997
 ................................................................................
LONG-TERM DEBT

  Commercial paper issued under
   long-term borrowing agreements         5.47%           $297,910     $298,245
  Notes payable                           6.26%            160,000      160,000
  Other                                                     36,549       34,999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total long-term debt                                    $494,459     $493,244
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of September 30, 1998, maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

                                          in thousands
                                            1999                     $304,782
                                            2000                      106,872
                                            2001                       66,872
                                            2002                        6,871
                                            2003                        6,871
                                            Thereafter                  2,191
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     $494,459
                                                                     ---------
The Company has a revolving  credit  agreement with a group of commercial  banks
that will allow it, at its option,  to  refinance  commercial  paper  borrowings
through May 2003.  In  accordance  with the  Company's  intention and ability to
refinance these  obligations on a long-term basis,  $297.9 million of commercial
paper at September 30, 1998 has been classified long-term. The credit agreements
include  various  restrictive  covenants,  including:  a  capitalization  ratio,
interest  coverage  ratio,  minimum working capital and limitation on additional
debt. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 1998.
At September  30, 1998,  amounts  available  for  issuance  under the  Company's
commercial paper program were $140.7 million.

At September 30, 1998, the Company had  interest-rate  swap agreements  maturing
through October 2000, which  effectively fixed interest rates on $295 million of
commercial  paper.  The  Company's  primary  objective  of  holding  these  swap
agreements is to hedge  against  unfavorable  movement in interest  rates on its
commercial  paper.  These financial  instruments are placed with major financial
institutions.   The   creditworthiness  of  the  counterparties  is  subject  to
continuous  review and full performance is anticipated.  Any potential loss from
failure of the counterparties to perform is deemed to be immaterial.

Notes  payable  represent  the Company's  participation  in a  medium-term  note
program. Notes totaling $50 million and $100 million were issued during 1998 and
1997, respectively, with interest rates ranging from 5.96% to 6.19%. These notes
mature at various times from 1999 through 2001. Also during 1998, $60 million of
notes with  interest at rates from 6.53% to 6.63% were retired at  maturity.  At
September  30,  1998,   amounts  available  for  issuance  under  the  Company's
medium-term note program were $350 million.

At September 30, 1998 and 1997,  the fair value of long-term  debt  approximated
its  carrying  value.  The fair values of  long-term  debt are  estimated  using
interest rates currently  offered to the Company for debt with similar remaining
maturities.

Note 9 Investment Income


in thousands                                    1998         1997         1996
 ................................................................................
  Dividends                                   $16,540      $14,141      $15,683
  Interest                                     29,969       16,105       16,787
  Realized gains, net                           8,271       15,563       17,271
  Foreign exchange gains/(losses), net           (978)       2,245         (394)
  Other                                         2,921        1,532        1,111
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              $56,723      $49,586      $50,458
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Substantially all of the Company's  dividend income was generated by investments
in the Franklin Templeton Group.

NOTE 10 TAXES ON INCOME

Taxes on income  for the years  ended  September  30,  1998,  1997 and 1996 were
comprised of the following:

in thousands                                1998         1997         1996
 ................................................................................
  Current
    Federal                               $87,148     $122,361      $98,803
    State                                  30,903       33,874       23,118
    Foreign                                45,797       26,637       25,558
  Deferred expense (benefit)               11,986       (1,222)      (5,979)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total provision                        $175,834     $181,650     $141,500
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Included in income before taxes was $387.5  million,  $358.9  million and $225.7
million,  of foreign  income for the years ended  September  30, 1998,  1997 and
1996, respectively.

The major components of the net deferred tax liability/asset as of September 30,
1998 and 1997 were as follows:


in thousands                                             1998         1997
 ................................................................................
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS

  State taxes                                           $5,471       $6,844
  Loan loss reserves                                     1,376        3,850
  Deferred compensation                                  5,246        3,442
  Restricted stock compensation plan                    38,877       34,933
  Net operating loss carryforwards                      40,408       27,510
  Other                                                 13,352       10,230
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total deferred tax assets                            104,730       86,809
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Valuation allowance for net operating
   loss carryforwards                                  (40,408)     (27,510)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance       64,322       59,299

DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

  Partnership earnings                                   4,009        4,774
  Net unrealized (losses)/gains on securities              (92)       8,967
  Depreciation on fixed assets                          13,261       11,384
  Prepaid expenses                                      16,333       15,419
  Goodwill                                              20,850        9,297
  Deferred Commissions                                  12,014           --
  Other                                                  6,976        6,664
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total deferred tax liabilities                        73,351       56,505
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net deferred tax (liability) asset                   $(9,029)      $2,794
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At  September  30,  1998,  there were  approximately  $44 million of foreign net
operating loss  carryforwards of which  approximately $28 million expire between
2000 and 2006 and the remaining have an indefinite life. In addition,  there are
approximately $434 million in state net operating loss carryforwards that expire
between 2006 and 2018. A valuation  allowance has been  recognized to offset the
related  deferred tax assets due to the  uncertainty of realizing the benefit of
the loss carryforwards.

A substantial  portion of the  undistributed  earnings of the Company's  foreign
subsidiaries has been reinvested for an indefinite period of time.  Accordingly,
no U.S. federal or state income taxes have been provided  thereon.  At September
30, 1998,  the  cumulative  amount of reinvested  income for which no U.S. taxes
have been provided was approximately  $874 million.  Determination of the amount
of  the  unrecognized  deferred  U.S.  income  tax  liability  related  to  such
reinvested  income  is  not  practicable  because  of the  numerous  assumptions
associated  with this  hypothetical  calculation;  however,  foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.

The  following  is a  reconciliation  between  the amount of tax  expense at the
federal  statutory  rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations  for the
years ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively:


in thousands                                     1998         1997         1996
 ................................................................................
  U.S. federal statutory rate                   35.0%        35.0%        35.0%
  Federal taxes at statutory rate            $236,699     $215,500     $159,786
  State taxes, net of federal tax effect       20,973       21,099       18,167
  Foreign earnings subject to reduced tax
    rates for which no U.S. tax is provided   (78,826)     (69,973)     (43,159)
  Other                                        (3,012)      15,024        6,706
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Actual tax provision                       $175,834     $181,650     $141,500
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Effective tax rate                            26.0%        29.5%        31.0%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE 11 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company leases office space and equipment under long-term  operating  leases
expiring at various dates  through  fiscal year 2017.  Lease expense  aggregated
$37.2  million,  $27.6  million  and $24.3  million  for the fiscal  years ended
September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

At September 30, 1998, the Company's  banking/finance  group had  commitments to
extend credit  aggregating  $372.3  million,  principally  under its credit card
lines.

The  Company is  involved in various  claims and legal  proceedings  of a nature
considered  normal to its  business.  While it is not  feasible  to  predict  or
determine the final outcome of these  proceedings,  management  does not believe
that  they  should  result  in a  materially  adverse  effect  on the  Company's
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

NOTE 12 EMPLOYEE STOCK AWARD AND OPTION PLANS

The Company sponsors a Universal Stock Plan and an Annual Incentive Compensation
Plan ("AICP"),  which were approved by the stockholders in 1994. Under the terms
of these plans, certain eligible employees may receive stock awards, principally
restricted stock which vests over three years and stock options. Under the terms
of the AICP,  restricted stock awards are based on the Company's pretax profits.
The Universal  Stock Plan provides for the issuance of up to 6 million shares of
the Company's stock for various stock-related awards, including those related to
the AICP.  As of  September  30, 1998 and 1997,  the  Company had  approximately
641,476 and 1,386,010 shares, respectively,  remaining available for grant under
the Universal  Stock Plan,  including  those related to the AICP. In addition to
the annual  award of stock under the AICP,  the  Company  may award  options and
other forms of stock-based compensation to certain employees, in accordance with
the terms of the Universal  Stock Plan.  Currently,  only  restricted  stock and
stock  options have been  granted.  The  Compensation  Committee of the Board of
Directors  determines the terms and conditions of all stock-based  compensation.
Total  compensation  cost recognized for stock-based  compensation  during 1998,
1997 and 1996 was $30.3 million, $42.2 million and $27.8 million, respectively.



Range  of  exercise   prices  at   September   30,   1998--   $4.57  to  $47.16.
Weighted-average remaining contractual life -- 4 years.

All share and price  information  above has been  adjusted  to give  retroactive
effect to a three-for-two  stock split declared December 1996, and a two-for-one
stock split declared December 1997.

Had  compensation  costs for the Company's stock options granted after September
30, 1995 been  determined  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of FAS 123, the
Company's  net  income and  earnings  per share  would not have been  materially
affected because the number of such stock options is insignificant.

NOTE 13 EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN

In  January   1998,   the   Company's   stockholders   approved   a   qualified,
non-compensatory   Employee  Stock   Investment  Plan  ("ESIP"),   which  allows
participants  who meet certain  eligibility  criteria to purchase  shares of the
Company's  common stock at 90% of its market value on certain defined dates. The
ESIP is open to  substantially  all employees of U.S.  subsidiaries  and certain
employees of non-U.S.  subsidiaries.  Participants  made their first purchase of
stock under this plan effective as of July 31, 1998. The Company's  stockholders
have approved 4,000,000  (post-split)  shares of common stock for issuance under
the ESIP. At September 30, 1998, 87,309 shares had been purchased under the ESIP
at a price of $39.21.

In connection with the ESIP, the Company,  at its sole  discretion,  can provide
matching  grants to  participants  in the ESIP of whole or partial shares of the
Company's common stock. While reserving the right to change such  determination,
the Company has initially indicated that it will provide one half-share for each
share held by a participant for a minimum holding period of eighteen months.









The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and
the Pacific  Exchange  under the ticker symbol BEN and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker  symbol FKR. On September  30, 1998,  the closing  price of the
Company's  common stock on the NYSE was $29 7/8 per share.  At November 1, 1998,
there were approximately 4,400 stockholders of record.

NOTE 15 NEW STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 130, "Reporting  Comprehensive
Income"  ("FAS 130")  establishes  the  disclosure  requirements  for  reporting
comprehensive  income in an entity's  annual and interim  financial  statements.
Comprehensive  income  includes  such  items  as  foreign  currency  translation
adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on securities  currently reported as
components of stockholders' equity. FAS 130 will require the Company to classify
items of  comprehensive  income by their  nature in a  financial  statement  and
display the accumulated balance of other comprehensive  income separately in the
equity  section of the  consolidated  balance  sheet.  The Company is  currently
considering  the type of  presentation it will adopt to comply with FAS 130. The
Company will comply with the requirements in the year ending September 30, 1999.

Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 131,  "Disclosures  of Segment
Information"  establishes  standards  for the way a  public  enterprise  reports
information about operating segments in annual financial statements and requires
that these enterprises  report selected  information about operating segments in
interim financial statements.  The Company has not yet determined the effect, if
any, of this pronouncement on the consolidated financial statements. The Company
will comply with the requirements in the year ending September 30, 1999.


Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure.

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.








Executive Officers of Registrant
- --------------------------------

The following  information on the executive  officers of the Company is given as
of December 1, 1998:

Name                         Age   Principal Occupation for the Past Five Years
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jennifer J. Bolt             34    Vice  President  of  FRI  since  June  1994;
                                   Executive  Vice  President,   Franklin  Bank
                                   from August 1993 to October 1998;  President
                                   and Director,  Franklin Capital Corporation,
                                   since  November  1993;  employed  by  FRI in
                                   various other  capacities  for more than the
                                   past five (5) years.

Harmon E. Burns              53    Executive  Vice  President  and  Director of
                                   FRI;  Executive  Vice President and Director
                                   of  Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,  Inc.
                                   and  Franklin  Templeton   Services,   Inc.;
                                   Executive   Vice   President   of   Franklin
                                   Advisers,    Inc.;    Director,    Templeton
                                   Worldwide,     Inc.,      Franklin/Templeton
                                   Investor Services,  Inc. and Franklin Mutual
                                   Advisers,  Inc.; officer and/or director, as
                                   the case  may be,  of most  other  principal
                                   U.S.  subsidiaries  of FRI;  officer  and/or
                                   director or trustee,  as the case may be, of
                                   53  of  the  investment   companies  in  the
                                   Franklin Templeton Group of Funds.

Martin L. Flanagan           38    Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
                                   Officer  of  FRI;   President   of  Franklin
                                   Templeton  Services,  Inc.,  Executive  Vice
                                   President  and Chief  Financial  Officer  of
                                   Franklin  Advisers,   Inc.,  Executive  Vice
                                   President    and   Director   of   Templeton
                                   Worldwide,  Inc.;  officer  of  most  of the
                                   subsidiaries  of FRI since March  1993;  and
                                   officer   and/or   director,    trustee   or
                                   managing  partner,  as the case  may be,  of
                                   most other  principal U.S.  subsidiaries  of
                                   FRI; and of 53 of the  investment  companies
                                   in the  Franklin  Templeton  Group of Funds.
                                   Prior   to   1993,   employed   by   various
                                   Templeton entities.

Deborah R. Gatzek            49    Senior  Vice  President  of FRI since  March
                                   1990;  General  Counsel  since January 1996;
                                   Vice  President  of FRI from,  1986 to 1990;
                                   Senior  Vice  President,  Franklin/Templeton
                                   Distributors,  Inc. and  Franklin  Templeton
                                   Services,  Inc.;  Executive Vice  President,
                                   Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.;  officer  of most
                                   other  principal U.S.  subsidiaries  of FRI;
                                   and   officer   of  53  of  the   investment
                                   companies  in the Franklin  Templeton  Group
                                   of Funds.

Donna S. Ikeda               42    Vice    President    since   October   1993;
                                   re-joined  FRI in  August  1993.  Previously
                                   employed  from 1982 to 1990 as  Director  of
                                   Human  Resources  and also held  position as
                                   Manager/Assistant Vice President of
                                   Shareholder    Services, Retirement Plan
                                   Phone  Service and Customer New  Accounts.
                                   From 1990 until August 1993,
                                   Vice  President,  Human  Resources  for G.T.
                                   Capital  Management,  Inc.  and G.T.  Global
                                   Financial   Services,   Inc.,   mutual  fund
                                   management and financial services companies.

Charles B. Johnson           65    President,   Chief  Executive   Officer  and
                                   Director  of  FRI;  Chairman  and  Director,
                                   Franklin       Advisers,       Inc.      and
                                   Franklin/Templeton    Distributors,    Inc.;
                                   Director,    Templeton   Worldwide,    Inc.,
                                   Franklin Bank,  Franklin/Templeton  Investor
                                   Services,    Inc.   and   Franklin    Mutual
                                   Advisers,  Inc.; officer and/or director, as
                                   the case  may be,  of most  other  principal
                                   U.S.  subsidiaries  of FRI;  officer  and/or
                                   director or trustee,  as the case may be, of
                                   50  of  the  investment   companies  in  the
                                   Franklin Templeton Group of Funds.

Charles E. Johnson           42    Senior Vice  President  and Director of FRI;
                                   President    and     Director,     Templeton
                                   Worldwide,   Inc.;   President,    Franklin/
                                   Templeton  Distributors  Inc.;  Chairman and
                                   Director,    Franklin   Agency,   Inc.   and
                                   Templeton    Investment    Counsel,    Inc.;
                                   Director,  Franklin Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.;
                                   Vice  President,  Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.;
                                   officer  and/or  director,  as the  case may
                                   be,   of  other   U.S.   and   international
                                   subsidiaries   of   FRI;    officer   and/or
                                   director or trustee,  as the case may be, of
                                   34  of  the  investment   companies  in  the
                                   Franklin Templeton Group of Funds.

Gregory E. Johnson           37    Vice  President  of  FRI  since  June  1994;
                                   President,  Franklin/Templeton Distributors,
                                   Inc. since  September  1994; Vice President,
                                   Franklin   Advisers,   Inc.  Prior  to  that
                                   time,  Senior Vice  President  and Assistant
                                   National Sales  Manager,  Franklin/Templeton
                                   Distributors,  Inc.;  Employee  of  Franklin
                                   Resources,  Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries  in
                                   administrative   and  portfolio   management
                                   capacities  since January  1986;  officer of
                                   one  investment   company  in  the  Franklin
                                   Group of Funds.

Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.       58    Executive  Vice  President  and  Director of
                                   FRI;   Director  and   President,   Franklin
                                   Advisers,  Inc.; Director and Executive Vice
                                   President,  Franklin/Templeton Distributors,
                                   Inc.; Director,  Franklin/Templeton Investor
                                   Services,  Inc., Templeton Worldwide,  Inc.,
                                   Franklin Bank and Franklin Mutual  Advisers,
                                   Inc.;  officer  and/or  director or trustee,
                                   as the case may be, of most other  principal
                                   U.S.  subsidiaries  of FRI  and of 53 of the
                                   investment   companies   in   the   Franklin
                                   Templeton Group of Funds.

Gordon F. Jones              51    Vice   President   and   Chief   Information
                                   Officer  of  FRI  since  March  1995.   From
                                   March 1990 to March 1995,  Vice President of
                                   Novell,  Inc., a worldwide  network  systems
                                   company;    Vice    President    and   Chief
                                   Information  Officer  of Novell,  Inc.  from
                                   March 1994 to March 1995.

Leslie M. Kratter            53    Vice  President of FRI since March 1993 and
                                   Secretary  since  March  1998.  Employed by
                                   FRI  since   January   1992.   Secretary  of
                                   Franklin Advisers, Inc.,  Franklin/Templeton
                                   Distributors,   Inc.,  Templeton  Worldwide,
                                   Inc., and a number of FRI's subsidiaries.

Kenneth A. Lewis             37    Vice  President,   Corporate  Controller  of
                                   FRI,  Senior Vice  President and  Controller
                                   of  Templeton   Worldwide,   Inc.,   and  an
                                   officer of several  other U.S.  subsidiaries
                                   of    FRI.    Prior    to   the    Templeton
                                   Acquisition,  employed by various  Templeton
                                   entities.

William J. Lippman           73    Senior  Vice  President  of FRI since  March
                                   1990; Director,  Templeton Worldwide,  Inc.;
                                   and  officer  and/or  director or trustee of
                                   six  of  the  investment  companies  in  the
                                   Franklin  Group of Funds.  Until  June 1988,
                                   President,   Chief  Executive  Officer,  and
                                   Director    of    L.F.    Rothschild    Fund
                                   Management,    Inc.,    Director   of   L.F.
                                   Rothschild    Asset    Management,     Inc.,
                                   Administrative    Managing    Director   and
                                   Director   of   L.F.   Rothschild   &   Co.,
                                   Incorporated.

Charles R. Sims              37    Treasurer  of FRI  and  officer  of  various
                                   subsidiaries  of FRI.  Employed by FRI since
                                   1989.  From  August  1991 to  October  1997,
                                   Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer
                                   and  from  February  1992 to  October  1997,
                                   Director of Canadian operations.


Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are brothers.  Peter M. Sacerdote,
a director of the Company,  is a brother-in-law of Charles B. Johnson and Rupert
H.  Johnson,  Jr.,  Charles E.  Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson and the
nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote.  Gregory E. Johnson is the
son of  Charles  B.  Johnson,  the  nephew of Rupert H.  Johnson,  Jr. and Peter
Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer Bolt and Charles E. Johnson. Jennifer Bolt
is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson,  the niece of Rupert H. Johnson,  Jr. and
Peter  Sacerdote,  and the sister of Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E.  Johnson.
Leslie M. Kratter is the spouse of Deborah R. Gatzek.

Information  regarding the  biographies  of the Directors of FRI and  Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement section entitled "Proposal 1: Election of Directors."

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement  section entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors."

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated  by  reference  to the Proxy  Statement  section  entitled  "Voting
Securities."

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement  section entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."







                                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)     Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statements
           filed as part of this report.

   (2)     Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial  statement
           schedules filed as part of this report.

   (3)   The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

   (3)(i)(a)     Registrant's  Certificate of  Incorporation,  as filed November
                 28, 1969,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the
                 Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

   (3)(i)(b)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,   as  filed  March  1,  1985,   incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(i)(c)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,   as  filed  April  1,  1987,   incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(i)(d)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,  as filed  February  2,  1994,  incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(ii)       Registrant's  By-Laws are  incorporated by reference to
                 Form 10 (File No. 06952),  incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit (3)(v) to the 1994 Annual Report

   4     Indenture between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly
         Chemical Bank), as trustee,  dated as of May 19, 1994,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form
         S-3, filed on April 14, 1994


   10.1  Representative   Distribution  Plan  between  Templeton  Growth
         Fund,  Inc.  and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
         incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's
         Annual   Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal   year  ended
         September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

   10.2  Representative   Transfer  Agent  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Growth Fund,  Inc. and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,
         Inc.  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.3 to the 1993
         Annual Report

   10.3  Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton   Growth  Fund,  Inc.  and  Templeton,   Galbraith  &
         Hansberger  Ltd.  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
         the 1993 Annual Report

   10.4  Representative  Management  Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin
         Group  of  Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to the
         Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended
         September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

   10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan between  Distributors  and the
         Franklin  Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
         the 1992 Annual Report

   10.6  Amended Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved January 24, 1995
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

   10.7  Universal  Stock  Plan  approved  January  19,  1994   incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's  1995 Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of
         Schedule 14A on December 29, 1993 in connection with its Annual Meeting
         of Stockholders held on January 19, 1994 *

   10.8  Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free
         Income Fund, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
         Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
         1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

   10.9  Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between  Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal   Tax-Free  Income  Fund,
         incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
         Report

   10.10 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Global  Strategy  SICAV  and  Templeton   Investment
         Management  Limited,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
         to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

   10.11 Representative  Sub-Distribution  Agreement between  Templeton,
         Galbraith  &  Hansberger   Ltd.   and  BAC  Corp.   Securities,
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.12 Representative    Dealer   Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to
         Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

   10.13 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton   Investment   Counsel,   Inc.  and  Client  (ERISA),
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.14 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (NON-ERISA),
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.15 Representative  Amended and  Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
         Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc.
         and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

   10.16 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement
         between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and  Franklin
         Custodian  Funds,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
         10.17 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.17 Representative    Class   II    Distribution    Plan    between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian
         Funds,  Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series,  incorporated  by
         reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.18 Representative  Dealer  Agreement  between   Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to
         Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.19 Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for Accounts of
         Bank and Trust Company Customers,  effective July 1, 1995, incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.20 Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Franklin  Value
         Investors  Trust,  on behalf of Franklin  MicroCap  Value Fund,
         and  Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by  reference to
         Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.21 Representative  Sub-Distribution  Agreement between  Templeton,
         Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and  Sub-Distributor,  incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.22 Representative  Non-Exclusive  Underwriting  Agreement  between
         Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment
         Services  (Asia)  Limited,  dated  September 18, 1995,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.23 Representative    Shareholder    Services   Agreement   between
         Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,   Inc.  and  Templeton
         Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited,  dated September 18, 1995,
         incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.24 Agreement  to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
         Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin Resources,  Inc., dated June
         25, 1996, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report
         on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

   10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services dated November
         1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor Services,  Inc. and PFPC Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1996 (the
         "1996 Annual Report")

   10.26 Representative    Sample   of    Franklin/Templeton    Investor
         Services,   Inc.   Transfer  Agent  and  Shareholder   Services
         Agreement,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.26 to the
         1996 Annual Report

   10.27 Representative   Administration   Agreement  between  Templeton
         Growth  Fund,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Templeton  Services,  Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.27 to the 1996 Annual
         Report

   10.28 Representative  Sample of Fund  Administration  Agreement  with
         Franklin Templeton  Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.28 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.29 Representative  Subcontract  for Fund  Administrative  Services
         between  Franklin   Advisers,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Templeton
         Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to
         the 1996 Annual Report

   10.30 Representative  Investment  Advisory Agreement between Franklin
         Mutual  Series Fund Inc. and Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.30 to the 1996 Annual
         Report

   10.31 Representative    Management    Agreement    between   Franklin
         Valuemark Funds and Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.32 Representative   Investment   Advisory  and  Asset   Allocation
         Agreement  between  Franklin  Templeton Fund  Allocator  Series
         and  Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by  reference to
         Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.33 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin New York
         Tax-Free  Income Fund,  Inc. and Franklin  Investment  Advisory
         Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to
         the 1996 Annual Report

   10.34 1998  Employee  Stock   Investment  Plan  approved  January  20,  1998,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 1998 *

   10.35 System  Development and Services  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
         by and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
         Shareholder Systems,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
         to the 1997 Annual Report

   10.36 1998 Universal  Stock  Incentive Plan approved  October 16, 1998 by the
         Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Proxy
         Statement  filed under cover of  Schedule  14A on December  23, 1998 in
         connection  with  its  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to be held on
         January 28, 1999 *

   10.37 Amendment  No. 3 to the  Agreement  to Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine
         Securities  Corporation,  Elmore  Securities  Corporation  and Franklin
         Resources,  Inc., dated December 17, 1997, incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarterly period ended December 31, 1997

   10.38 Representative  Agreement for the Supply of Investment  Management  and
         Administration  Services,  dated  February  16,  1998,  by and  between
         Templeton   Funds  and   Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly
         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1998

   10.39 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  as
         amended.

   10.40 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton Investment Counsel,  Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA),  as
         amended.


   12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

   21    List of Subsidiaries

   23    Consent of Independent Accountants

   27     Financial Data Schedule

         * Compensatory Plan

(b)(1)   Current  Report on Form 8-K dated October 23, 1998 was filed on October
         23, 1998  attaching  Registrant's  press release dated October 23, 1998
         under Items 5 and 7.


(c)      See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)      No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
         in Item 8.





SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                              ----------------------
                              Charles B. Johnson, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Charles B. Johnson
                              ----------------------
                              Charles B. Johnson, Chief
                              Executive Officer and Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Harmon E. Burns
                              -------------------
                              Harmon E. Burns, Executive Vice
                              President and Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Martin L. Flanagan
                              ----------------------
                              Martin L. Flanagan, Senior Vice
                              President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ F. Warren Hellman
                              ---------------------
                              F. Warren Hellman, Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Charles E. Johnson
                              ----------------------
                              Charles E. Johnson, Senior Vice
                              President and Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.
                              --------------------------
                              Rupert H. Johnson, Jr., Executive Vice
                              President and Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Harry O. Kline
                              ------------------
                              Harry O. Kline, Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Kenneth A. Lewis
                              --------------------
                              Kenneth A. Lewis, Vice President
                              and Corporate Controller

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ James A. McCarthy
                              ---------------------
                              James A. McCarthy, Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Peter M. Sacerdote
                              ----------------------
                              Peter M. Sacerdote, Director

Date: December 11, 1998 By    /s/ Louis E. Woodworth
                              ----------------------
                              Louis E. Woodworth, Director






ITEM

   (3)(i)(a)     Registrant's  Certificate of  Incorporation,  as filed November
                 28, 1969,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  (3)(i) to the
                 Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                 September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

   (3)(i)(b)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,   as  filed  March  1,  1985,   incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(i)(c)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,   as  filed  April  1,  1987,   incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(i)(d)     Registrant's   Certificate   of  Amendment  of  Certificate  of
                 Incorporation,  as filed  February  2,  1994,  incorporated  by
                 reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

   (3)(ii)       Registrant's  By-Laws are  incorporated by reference to
                 Form 10 (File No. 06952),  incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit (3)(v) to the 1994 Annual Report

   4     Indenture between the Registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly
         Chemical Bank), as trustee,  dated as of May 19, 1994,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form
         S-3, filed on April 14, 1994


   10.1  Representative   Distribution  Plan  between  Templeton  Growth
         Fund,  Inc.  and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.
         incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's
         Annual   Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal   year  ended
         September 30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

   10.2  Representative   Transfer  Agent  Agreement  between  Templeton
         Growth Fund,  Inc. and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,
         Inc.  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.3 to the 1993
         Annual Report

   10.3  Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton   Growth  Fund,  Inc.  and  Templeton,   Galbraith  &
         Hansberger  Ltd.  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
         the 1993 Annual Report

   10.4  Representative  Management  Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin
         Group  of  Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to the
         Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended
         September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

   10.5  Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan between  Distributors  and the
         Franklin  Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
         the 1992 Annual Report

   10.6  Amended Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved January 24, 1995
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

   10.7  Universal  Stock  Plan  approved  January  19,  1994   incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's  1995 Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of
         Schedule 14A on December 29, 1993 in connection with its Annual Meeting
         of Stockholders held on January 19, 1994 *

   10.8  Representative  Amended and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Federal  Tax-Free
         Income Fund, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
         Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
         1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

   10.9  Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between  Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal   Tax-Free  Income  Fund,
         incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
         Report

   10.10 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Global  Strategy  SICAV  and  Templeton   Investment
         Management  Limited,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
         to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

   10.11 Representative  Sub-Distribution  Agreement between  Templeton,
         Galbraith  &  Hansberger   Ltd.   and  BAC  Corp.   Securities,
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.12 Representative    Dealer   Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to
         Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

   10.13 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton   Investment   Counsel,   Inc.  and  Client  (ERISA),
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.14 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (NON-ERISA),
         incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7 to the June 1995
         Quarterly Report

   10.15 Representative  Amended and  Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
         Services Agreement between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc.
         and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc., dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

   10.16 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement
         between  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc.  and  Franklin
         Custodian  Funds,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
         10.17 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.17 Representative    Class   II    Distribution    Plan    between
         Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian
         Funds,  Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series,  incorporated  by
         reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.18 Representative  Dealer  Agreement  between   Franklin/Templeton
         Distributors,  Inc.  and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to
         Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.19 Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for Accounts of
         Bank and Trust Company Customers,  effective July 1, 1995, incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.20 Representative  Management  Agreement  between  Franklin  Value
         Investors  Trust,  on behalf of Franklin  MicroCap  Value Fund,
         and  Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by  reference to
         Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.21 Representative  Sub-Distribution  Agreement between  Templeton,
         Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and  Sub-Distributor,  incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.22 Representative  Non-Exclusive  Underwriting  Agreement  between
         Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment
         Services  (Asia)  Limited,  dated  September 18, 1995,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.23 Representative    Shareholder    Services   Agreement   between
         Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,   Inc.  and  Templeton
         Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited,  dated September 18, 1995,
         incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

   10.24 Agreement  to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
         Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin Resources,  Inc., dated June
         25, 1996, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report
         on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

   10.25 Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services dated November
         1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor Services,  Inc. and PFPC Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10.25 to the  Company's  Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1996 (the
         "1996 Annual Report")

   10.26 Representative    Sample   of    Franklin/Templeton    Investor
         Services,   Inc.   Transfer  Agent  and  Shareholder   Services
         Agreement,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.26 to the
         1996 Annual Report

   10.27 Representative   Administration   Agreement  between  Templeton
         Growth  Fund,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Templeton  Services,  Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.27 to the 1996 Annual
         Report

   10.28 Representative  Sample of Fund  Administration  Agreement  with
         Franklin Templeton  Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.28 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.29 Representative  Subcontract  for Fund  Administrative  Services
         between  Franklin   Advisers,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Templeton
         Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to
         the 1996 Annual Report

   10.30 Representative  Investment  Advisory Agreement between Franklin
         Mutual  Series Fund Inc. and Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.30 to the 1996 Annual
         Report

   10.31 Representative    Management    Agreement    between   Franklin
         Valuemark Funds and Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.32 Representative   Investment   Advisory  and  Asset   Allocation
         Agreement  between  Franklin  Templeton Fund  Allocator  Series
         and  Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by  reference to
         Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996 Annual Report

   10.33 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin New York
         Tax-Free  Income Fund,  Inc. and Franklin  Investment  Advisory
         Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to
         the 1996 Annual Report

   10.34 1998  Employee  Stock   Investment  Plan  approved  January  20,  1998,
         incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
         cover of Schedule  14A on  December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its
         Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 1998 *

   10.35 System  Development and Services  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
         by and between  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
         Shareholder Systems,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
         to the 1997 Annual Report

   10.36 1998 Universal  Stock  Incentive Plan approved  October 16, 1998 by the
         Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Proxy
         Statement  filed under cover of  Schedule  14A on December  23, 1998 in
         connection  with  its  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to be held on
         January 28, 1999 *

   10.37 Amendment  No. 3 to the  Agreement  to Merge  the  Businesses  of Heine
         Securities  Corporation,  Elmore  Securities  Corporation  and Franklin
         Resources,  Inc., dated December 17, 1997, incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarterly period ended December 31, 1997

   10.38 Representative  Agreement for the Supply of Investment  Management  and
         Administration  Services,  dated  February  16,  1998,  by and  between
         Templeton   Funds  and   Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
         incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly
         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1998

   10.39 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton  Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (ERISA),  as
         amended.

   10.40 Representative    Investment   Management   Agreement   between
         Templeton Investment Counsel,  Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA),  as
         amended.


   12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

   21    List of Subsidiaries

   23    Consent of Independent Accountants

   27     Financial Data Schedule

         * Compensatory Plan

(b)(1)   Current  Report on Form 8-K dated October 23, 1998 was filed on October
         23, 1998  attaching  Registrant's  press release dated October 23, 1998
         under Items 5 and 7.


(c)      See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)       No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
          in Item 8.




