10-K


k91869e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Ford Motor Company

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)

313-322-3000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

(a)

In addition, shares of Common Stock of Ford are
    listed on certain stock exchanges in Europe.

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes

ü

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes

ü

No

As
of June 30, 2004, Ford had outstanding
1,760,050,800 shares of Common Stock and
70,852,076 shares of Class B Stock. Based on the New
York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction closing price of the
Common Stock on that date ($15.65 a share), the aggregate market
value of such Common Stock was $27,544,795,020. Although there
is no quoted market for our Class B Stock, shares of
Class B Stock may be converted at any time into an equal
number of shares of Common Stock for the purpose of effecting
the sale or other disposition of such shares of Common Stock.
The shares of Common Stock and Class B Stock outstanding at
June 30, 2004 included shares owned by persons who may be
deemed to be “affiliates” of Ford. We do not believe,
however, that any such person should be considered to be an
affiliate. For information concerning ownership of outstanding
Common Stock and Class B Stock, see the Proxy Statement for
Ford’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders currently scheduled
to be held on May 12, 2005 (our “Proxy
Statement”), which is incorporated by reference under
various Items of this Report.

As
of February 24, 2005, Ford had outstanding
1,760,048,400 shares of Common Stock and
70,852,076 shares of Class B Stock. Based on the New
York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction closing price of the
Common Stock on that date ($12.80 a share), the aggregate market
value of such Common Stock was $22,528,619,520.

DOCUMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE*

*

As stated under various Items of this Report,
    only certain specified portions of such document are
    incorporated by reference in this Report.

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

Ford Motor Company (referred to herein as
“Ford”, the “Company”, “we”,
“our” or “us”) was incorporated in Delaware
in 1919. We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also
known as Ford Motor Company, incorporated in 1903 to produce and
sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford. We are
one of the world’s largest producers of cars and trucks
combined. We and our subsidiaries also engage in other
businesses, including financing and renting vehicles and
equipment.

In addition to the information about Ford and its
subsidiaries contained in this Report, extensive information
about our Company can be found throughout our website located at
www.ford.com, including information about our management team,
our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles.

The corporate governance information on our
website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, our Code
of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, our Code of Ethics for
Directors, our Standards of Corporate Conduct for all employees,
and the Charters for each of our Board Committees. In addition,
amendments to, and waivers granted to our directors and
executive officers under, our Codes of Ethics, if any, will be
posted in this area of our website. These corporate governance
documents can be accessed by logging onto our web site and
clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link.

You will then see a list of corporate governance
documents. Click on the document you desire to access. In
addition, printed versions of our Corporate Governance
Principles, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel,
our Standards of Corporate Conduct and the Charters for each of
our Board Committees can be obtained, free of charge, by writing
to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One
American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.

In addition to the Company information discussed
above provided on our website, all of our periodic report
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available,
free of charge, through our website, including our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those
reports. Also, each Section 16 filing made with the SEC by
the Company or any of its executive officers or directors with
respect to our common stock are made available, free of charge,
through our website. The periodic reports and amendments and the
Section 16 filings are available through our website as
soon as reasonably practicable after such report or amendment is
electronically filed with the SEC.

To access our SEC reports or amendments or the
Section 16 filings, log onto our website and click on the
following link on each successive screen.

You will then see a list of reports filed with
the SEC. Click on the report you desire to access.

The foregoing information regarding our website
and its content is for convenience only. The content of our
website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this
report nor should it be deemed to have been filed with the SEC.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

OVERVIEW

Segments.

Our
business is divided into two business sectors: the Automotive
sector and the Financial Services sector. Segment selection is
based upon the organizational structure that we use to evaluate
performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well
as availability and materiality of separate financial results
consistent with that structure.

Beginning with the second quarter of 2004, we
changed the reporting of our Automotive sector from two segments
(previously “Americas” and “International”)
to three segments: “The Americas”, “Ford Europe
and PAG”, and “Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/
Mazda”. Our Automotive and Financial Services segments are
described in the table below.

We provide financial information (such as
revenues, income, and assets) for each of these business sectors
and operating segments in three areas of this Report:
(1) Item 6. “Selected Financial Data”,
(2) Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”,
and (3) Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements located at the end of this Report. Financial
information relating to certain geographic areas also is
included in these Notes.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

General

We sell cars and trucks throughout the world. In
2004, we sold approximately 6,798,000 vehicles throughout the
world. Our automotive vehicle brands include Ford, Mercury,
Lincoln, Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar and Aston Martin.

Substantially all of our cars, trucks and parts
are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and
through distributors and dealers outside of North America. At
December 31, 2004, the approximate number of dealers and
distributors worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as
follows:

*

Because many of these dealerships distribute more
    than one of our brands from the same sales location, a single
    dealership may be counted under more than one brand.

In addition to the products we sell to our
dealers for retail sale, we also sell cars and trucks to our
dealers for sale to fleet customers, including daily rental car
companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and
governments. Sales to all of our fleet customers in the United
States in the aggregate have represented between 22% and 24% of
our total U.S. car and truck sales for the last five years.
We do not depend on any single customer or small group of
customers to the extent that the loss of such customer or group
of customers would have a material adverse effect on our
business.

In addition to producing and selling cars and
trucks, we also provide retail customers with a wide range of
after-the-sale vehicle services and products through our dealer
network, in areas such as maintenance and light repair, heavy
repair, collision, vehicle accessories and extended service
warranty. In North America, we market these products and
services under several brands including Genuine Ford and
Lincoln-Mercury Parts and Service

SM

, Ford Extended
Service Plan

SM

, and Motorcraft

SM

.

The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included,
is affected significantly by a number of factors over which we
have little control, including general economic conditions. The
automotive industry is a highly competitive, cyclical business
that has a wide variety of product offerings. The number of cars
and trucks sold (commonly referred to as “industry
demand”) could vary substantially from year to year. In any
year, industry demand depends largely on general economic
conditions, the cost of purchasing and operating cars and
trucks, and the availability and cost of credit and fuel.
Industry demand also reflects the fact that cars and trucks are
durable items that people generally can wait to replace.

Our unit sales vary with the level of total
industry demand and our share of that industry demand. In the
short term, our unit sales also are influenced by the level of
dealer inventory. Our share is influenced by how our products
compare with those offered by other manufacturers based on many
factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety,
and functionality. Our share also is affected by our timing of
new model introductions and manufacturing capacity limitations.
Our ability to satisfy changing consumer preferences with
respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and
performance characteristics, can impact our sales and earnings
significantly.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The profitability of vehicle sales is affected by
many factors, including the following:

Further, because Ford and other manufacturers
have a high proportion of costs that are relatively fixed
(including labor costs), small changes in unit sales volumes can
significantly affect overall profitability.

In addition, the automobile industry continues to
face a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by
industry excess capacity. For the past several decades,
manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other
marketing incentives to purchasers to maintain their market
shares and production levels. A discussion of our strategies to
compete in this pricing environment is set forth below in
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Overview”.

Competitive
Position.

The worldwide automotive
industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant
producer. Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major
percentage of total sales within particular countries,
especially their countries of origin. Detailed information
regarding our competitive position in the principal markets
where we compete can be found below as part of the overall
discussion of the automotive industry in those markets.

Seasonality.

We
generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize sales
proceeds in revenue) when it is produced and shipped to our
customer (i.e., our dealer or distributor). We manage our
vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors,
including dealer stock levels (i.e., number of units held in
inventory by our dealers and distributors for sale to retail and
fleet customers) and retail sales (i.e., units sold by our
dealers and distributors to their customers at retail). We
experience some fluctuation in the business of a seasonal
nature, generally in the second and third quarters, primarily as
the result of the summer vacation shutdown of our manufacturing
facilities during the third quarter. Typically, production is
higher in the second quarter in anticipation of the shutdown and
lower in the third quarter due to the downtime. As a result,
operating results for the third quarter typically are less
favorable than those of the other quarters.

Raw Materials.

We
purchase a wide variety of raw materials for use in the
production of our vehicles from numerous suppliers around the
world. These raw materials include non-ferrous metals (e.g.,
aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals
(e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas) and
resins (e.g., polypropylene). We believe that we have adequate
supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials
necessary to meet our needs. However, there are risks and
uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain of these raw
materials that could impact their availability in sufficient
quantities to meet our needs. See Item 7. “Management
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview” for a discussion of
commodity price trends.

Backlog Orders.

We
generally produce and ship our products on average within
approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become
firm. Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders
accumulates during any period.

Intellectual
Property.

We own, or hold licenses to
use, numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global
basis. Our policy is to protect our competitive position by,
among other


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

methods, filing U.S. and international patent
applications to protect technology and improvements that we
consider important to the development of our business. As such,
we have generated a large number of patents related to the
operation of our business and expect this portfolio to continue
to grow as we actively pursue additional technological
innovation. We currently have approximately 11,000 active
patents and pending patent applications globally, with an
average age for patents in our active patent portfolio being
5 years. In addition to this intellectual property, we also
rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological
innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position.
While we believe these patents, patent applications and
know-how, in the aggregate, to be important to the conduct of
our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual
property owned by others, none is individually considered
material to our business. Similarly, we own numerous trademarks
and service marks that contribute to the identity and
recognition of our company and its products and services
globally. Certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of
our business, the loss of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

United States

Sales Data.

The
following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars and
trucks for the years indicated:

We classify cars by small, medium, large and
premium segments and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van
(including minivans), full-size pickup, sport utility vehicles
and medium/heavy segments. However, with the introduction of
crossover vehicles, the distinction between traditional cars and
trucks has become more difficult to draw and these vehicles are
not consistently classified as either by the various
manufacturers. In the tables above and below, we have classified
crossover vehicles as sport utility vehicles. We also have
classified as “premium” cars all of our luxury cars,
regardless of size. The term “bus” as used in this
discussion refers to vans designed to carry passengers.
Annually, we conduct a comprehensive review of many factors to
determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments.
This review may result in a change of classification of certain
vehicles.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The following tables show the proportion of
United States car and truck unit sales by segment for the
industry (including both domestic and foreign-based
manufacturers) and Ford (including all of our brands sold in the
U.S.) for the years indicated:

As the tables above indicate, there has been a
general shift from cars to trucks for both industry sales and
Ford sales. This shift has been occurring steadily over a number
of years. Ford’s sales of trucks as a percentage of its
total vehicle sales has also increased since 2000 because of
higher sales of sport utility vehicles and full-size pickups.

Market Share Data.

Our principal competitors in the United States include General
Motors Corporation, DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Toyota
Corporation, and Honda Motor Corporation. The following tables
show changes in car and truck United States market shares for
Ford (including all of our brands sold in the U.S.) and the
other four leading vehicle manufacturers for the years indicated.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The percentages in each of the following tables
represent the percentage of the combined car and truck industry.

*

All U.S. retail sales data are based on
    publicly available information from the media and trade
    publications.

**

Ford purchased Land Rover on June 30, 2000.
    The figures shown above include Land Rover data in Ford’s
    market share beginning July 1, 2000.

***

“All Other” includes primarily
    companies based in various European countries, Korea and other
    Japanese manufacturers and, with respect to the U.S. Truck
    Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market
    Shares table, includes heavy truck manufacturers.

The decline in overall market share for Ford
since 2000 is primarily the result of increased competition and
actions we have taken to improve our profitability, including
the discontinuance of a number of vehicles (e.g., Ford Escort,
Ford Explorer Sport, Mercury Cougar, Mercury Villager and
Lincoln Continental), a continued focus on profitable commercial
and government fleet sales and a planned reduction of low-margin
sales to daily rental car companies.

Fleet Sales.

The
sales data and market share information provided above include
both retail and fleet sales. Fleet sales include sales to daily
rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing
companies and governments. Fleet sales generally are less
profitable than retail sales and,


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

within the fleet sales category, sales to daily
rental car companies generally are less profitable than sales to
other fleet purchasers.

The table below shows our fleet sales in the
United States, and the amount of those sales as a percentage of
our total United States car and truck sales, for the last five
years.

As the table above indicates, sales to daily
rental car companies have declined for the fourth consecutive
year. This decline reflects primarily the continued execution of
our strategy to reduce sales to daily rental car companies in
order to improve our overall profitability. Commercial and
government fleet sales increased in 2004 after three years of
broad weakness in these segments driven by difficult economic
conditions.

Warranty Coverage and Additional Service
Actions.

We presently provide warranty
coverage for defects in factory-supplied materials and
workmanship on all vehicles sold in the United States. The
warranty coverage for Ford/ Mercury vehicles generally extends
for 36 months or 36,000 miles (whichever occurs first)
and covers components of the vehicle, including tires. The
U.S. warranty coverage for luxury vehicles (Lincoln,
Jaguar, Volvo and Land Rover) generally extends for
48 months or 50,000 miles (whichever occurs first).
Warranty coverage for safety restraint systems (safety belts,
air bags and related components) extends for 60 months or
50,000 miles (whichever occurs first), except on Volvo
vehicles, which is 60 months/unlimited mileage. Also,
corrosion damage resulting in perforation (holes) in body
sheet metal panels is covered for 60 months/unlimited
mileage, with 72 months/ unlimited mileage on Jaguar/ Land
Rover products, 96 months/unlimited mileage on Volvo
vehicles prior to the 2004 model year and
144 months/unlimited mileage on Volvo vehicles starting
with the 2005 model year. In addition, the Federal Clean Air Act
requires warranty coverage for 8 years or 80,000 miles
(whichever occurs first) for emissions equipment
(e.g., catalytic converter and powertrain control module)
on most light-duty vehicles sold in the United States. As a
result of these warranties, costs for warranty repairs can be
substantial.

In addition to the costs associated with the
contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also
incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and
customer satisfaction actions.

Estimated warranty costs and additional service
action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued at the time
of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty costs and additional
service action costs are subject to adjustment from time to time
depending on actual experience.

For additional information with respect to costs
for warranty and additional service actions, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Estimates” and Note 26 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements.

Europe

Market Share
Information.

Outside of the United
States, Europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and
trucks. We consider Europe to consist of the following
19 markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain,
Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland,
Finland,


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Czech Republic, Greece,
Hungary and Poland. The automotive industry in Europe is
intensely competitive. Our principal competitors in Europe
include General Motors Corporation, Volkswagen A.G. Group,
PSA Group, Renault Group and Fiat SpA. For the past
10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held
between 69% and 74% of the total car market. This competitive
environment is expected to intensify further as Japanese
manufacturers increase their production capacity in Europe, and
all of the other (non-Ford) manufacturers of premium brands
(e.g., BMW, Mercedes Benz and Audi) continue to broaden
their product offerings. For a discussion of improvement actions
we have taken in our Ford Europe and PAG segment in 2003 and
2004, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview”.

In 2004, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately
17.6 million cars and trucks in Europe, up 2.6% from 2003
levels. Our combined car and truck market share in Europe
(including all of our brands sold in Europe) in 2004 was 11.0%,
up 0.3 percentage points from 2003.

Britain and Germany are our most important
markets within Europe, although the Southern European countries
are becoming increasingly significant. Any adverse change in the
British or German market has a significant effect on our total
European automotive profits. For 2004 compared with 2003, total
industry sales were up 0.5% in Britain and up 1.2% in Germany.
Our combined car and truck market share in these markets
(including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2004 was
19.7% in Britain (the same as in the previous year) and 8.8% in
Germany (up 0.2 percentage points from the previous year).

Marketing
Incentives.

The automotive industry in
Europe continues to be intensely competitive. In Europe in 2004,
increased competition resulted in substantial retail and fleet
incentive spending on the part of Ford and most manufacturers,
particularly in our key European market of Britain. Similar to
the United States, marketing costs in Europe include primarily
(i) marketing incentives on vehicles, such as rebates and
costs for special financing and lease programs,
(ii) accruals for costs and/or losses associated with our
required repurchase of certain vehicles sold to daily rental car
companies, and (iii) costs for advertising and sales
promotions for vehicles. We utilize revenue management
strategies in Europe consistent with those in the United States.
A discussion of our revenue management strategies is set forth
below in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview”.

Motor Vehicle Distribution in
Europe.

On October 1, 2002, the
Commission of the European Union (“Commission”)
adopted a new regulation that changed the way motor vehicles are
sold and repaired throughout the European Community (the
“Block Exemption Regulation”). Under the Block
Exemption Regulation, manufacturers had the choice to
either operate an “exclusive” distribution system with
exclusive dealer sales territories, but with the possibility of
sales to any reseller (e.g., supermarket chains, internet
agencies and other resellers not authorized by the
manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end customers both
within and outside of the dealer’s exclusive sales
territory, or a “selective” distribution system.

We, as well as the vast majority of the other
automotive manufacturers, have elected to establish a
“selective” distribution system, allowing us to
restrict the dealer’s ability to sell our vehicles to
unauthorized resellers. In addition, under the
“selective” distribution system, we are entitled to
determine the number of our dealers, but beginning in October
2005, not their location. Under either system, the new rules
make it easier for a dealer to display and sell multiple brands
in one store without the need to maintain separate facilities.

Within this new regulation, the Commission also
has adopted sweeping changes to the repair industry. Dealers can
no longer be required by the manufacturer to perform repair work
themselves. Instead, dealers can subcontract the work to
independent repair shops that meet reasonable criteria set by
the manufacturer. These authorized repair facilities can perform
warranty and recall work, in


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

addition to other repair and maintenance work.
While a manufacturer can continue to require the use of its
parts in warranty and recall work, the repair facility can use
parts made by others that are of comparable quality for all
other repair work. We have negotiated and implemented new
Dealer, Authorized Repairer and Spare Part Supply contracts
on a country-by-country level and, therefore, the Block
Exemption Regulation now applies with respect to all of our
dealers.

With these new rules, the Commission intends to
increase competition and narrow car price differences from
country to country. While it remains difficult to quantify the
full impact of these changes on our European operations, the
Block Exemption Regulation continued to contribute to an
increasingly competitive market for vehicles and parts. This has
contributed to an increase in marketing expenses, thus
negatively affecting the profitability of our Ford Europe and
PAG segment. We anticipate that this trend may continue as
dealers and parts suppliers become increasingly organized and
established.

Warranty Coverage and Additional Service
Actions.

Beginning in January 2002,
warranty coverage provided by volume manufacturers (including
Ford) in most of our European markets increased from one year
with unlimited mileage to two years with unlimited mileage. This
increase in warranty coverage was prompted by new consumer laws
in eleven of our nineteen European markets that granted private
buyers a two-year period in which to pursue defects in goods
(including vehicles and substantial components). Prior to
January 2002, Ford provided warranty coverage on Volvo brand
(only in Britain) vehicles that extended for 36 months or
60,000 miles and will continue to provide such warranty
coverage. In Britain, Ford provides a warranty package on
Ford-brand vehicles that includes a 36 month warranty
composed of a 12 month/unlimited mileage base warranty and
free of charge OEW (Extended Service Plan) covering up to a
further 24 months and 60,000 miles. Commercial
vehicles (e.g., Ford Transit and Ford Transit Connect)
carry a 24 month/unlimited mileage warranty except in
Britain where Ford currently provides a 36 month/
100,000 mile base warranty. In Britain, Jaguar and Land
Rover provide 36 month/unlimited mileage warranty, enhanced
in January 2002 to unlimited mileage from the previous
36 month/60,000 mile warranty. In mainland Europe,
Jaguar provides 36 month/unlimited mileage warranty,
enhanced in January 2002 to unlimited mileage from the previous
100,000 km limit; Land Rover provides
36 month/100,000 km warranty, enhanced in November
2001 from the previous 12 month warranty; and Volvo
provides 24 month/unlimited mileage warranty. In addition
to the base warranties discussed above, Ford warrants the
bodywork of all of its brands against rust perforation for
periods between 6 years and 12 years. As a result of
these warranties, costs for warranty repairs can be substantial.

In addition to the costs associated with the
contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also
incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and
customer satisfaction actions.

Estimated warranty costs and additional service
action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued at the time
of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty costs and additional
service action costs are subject to adjustment from time to time
depending on actual experience.

For additional information with respect to costs
for warranty and additional service actions, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Estimates” and Note 26 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements.

Other Markets

Canada and Mexico.

Canada and Mexico also are important markets for us. In Canada,
industry sales of new cars and trucks in 2004 were approximately
1.57 million units, down 3.2% from 2003 levels. In 2004,
industry sales of new cars and trucks in Mexico were
approximately 1.12 million units, up 12.0% from 2003. Our
combined car and truck market share in these markets (including
all of our


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

brands sold in these markets) in 2004 was 14.5%
in Canada (down 1.3 percentage points from the previous
year) and 16.5% in Mexico (about the same as the previous year).

South America.

Brazil and Argentina are our principal markets in South America.
The economic environment in those countries has been volatile in
recent years, particularly in 2002 and 2003, leading to large
variations in industry sales. The 2004 results have been
favorably influenced by improved economic conditions, political
stability and government actions to reduce inflation and public
deficits. Industry sales in 2004 were approximately
1.6 million units in Brazil, up about 10.6% from 2003, and
approximately 280,000 units in Argentina, up 99% from 2003.
Our combined car and truck market share in these markets
(including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2004 was
12.3% in Brazil (up 0.2 percentage points from the previous
year) and 18.5% in Argentina (down 2.8 percentage points
from the previous year).

Asia Pacific.

In the
Asia Pacific region, Australia, Taiwan, Thailand and Japan are
our principal markets. Details of the industry volumes and our
combined car and truck market share for these countries
(including all of our brands sold in a particular country) are
shown below.

*

Our combined car and truck market share in Japan
    has been less than 1% in recent years.

In addition, we own a 33.4% interest in Mazda
Motor Corporation (“Mazda”) and account for Mazda on
an equity basis. Mazda’s market share in Japan has been
about 4.6% in recent years. Our principal competition in the
Asia Pacific region has been the Japanese manufacturers. We
anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions
(including duty reductions) will continue to intensify
competition in the region.

We began operations in India in 1999, launching
an all-new small car (the Ikon) designed specifically for that
market. In 2003 we launched the Endeavor, Ford’s first SUV
in India, and we also launched the Fusion in late 2004. Our
operations in India also sell components to other Ford
affiliates.

We also are in the process of increasing our
presence in China. Changan Ford is our 50/50 joint venture
operation with Chongqing Changan Automobile Co, Ltd. The Changan
Ford assembly plant located in Chongqing became operational and
began producing the Fiesta model in January 2003 and the Mondeo
model in mid-2003. We have also announced that more than
$1 billion would be invested over the next several years to
expand manufacturing capacity, introduce new products and expand
distribution channels in the Chinese automotive market. This
investment will initially support the addition of new products
and expansion of production capacity at Changan Ford in
Chongqing from 50,000 units per year to 200,000 units
per year. It will also support the establishment of a second
assembly plant and a new engine plant to be located in Nanjing.
In addition, we have a 30% interest in Jiangling Motors
Corporation with operations located in Nanchang. We also import
Jaguar, Volvo, Land Rover, and selected Ford vehicles into
China. Also, during 2002, a new purchasing office was
established in China to take advantage of sourcing opportunities
for global markets from that country.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

Ford Motor Credit Company

Ford Motor Credit Company (“Ford
Credit”) offers a wide variety of automotive financial
services to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.
Ford Credit’s primary financial products fall into three
categories:

•

Retail financing — purchasing retail
    installment sale contracts and retail leases from dealers, and
    offering financing to commercial customers, primarily vehicle
    leasing companies and fleet purchasers, to purchase or lease
    vehicle fleets;

•

Wholesale financing — making loans to
    dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known
    as floorplan financing; and

•

Other financing — making loans to
    dealers for working capital, improvements to dealership
    facilities, and the acquisition and refinancing of dealership
    real estate.

Ford Credit also services the finance receivables
and leases it originates and purchases, makes loans to its
affiliates, purchases certain receivables from us and our
subsidiaries, and provides insurance services related to its
financing programs. Ford Credit’s revenues are earned
primarily from retail installment sale contracts and retail
leases, including interest supplements and other support
payments it receives from us on special-rate retail financing
programs, from investment and other income related to sold
receivables, and from payments made under wholesale and other
dealer loan financing programs.

Ford Credit does business in all 50 states
of the United States through about 130 dealer automotive
financing branches and seven regional service centers, and does
business in all provinces in Canada through 14 dealer automotive
financing branches and two regional service centers. Outside the
United States, FCE Bank plc (“FCE”) is Ford
Credit’s largest operation. FCE’s primary business is
to support the sale of our vehicles in Europe through our dealer
network. FCE offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale
finance plans in most countries in which it operates. FCE does
business in the United Kingdom, Germany and most other European
countries. Ford Credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates
in the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions. In addition,
Ford Credit manages our vehicle financing operations in other
countries where Ford Credit does not have operations.

Ford Credit’s share of retail financing for
new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in
the United States and new Ford-brand vehicles sold by dealers in
Europe, and Ford Credit’s share of wholesale financing for
new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers
in the United States, excluding fleet, and of new Ford-brand
vehicles acquired by dealers in Europe were as follows during
the last three years:

For a detailed discussion of Ford Credit’s
receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses,
loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources and funding
strategies, see Item 7. “Management’s


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations”. For a discussion of how Ford
Credit manages its financial market risks, see Item 7A.
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market
Risk”.

The predominant share of Ford Credit’s
business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our
dealers. Any extended reduction or suspension of the production
or sale of our vehicles due to a decline in consumer demand,
work stoppage, governmental action, negative publicity or other
event, or significant changes to marketing programs sponsored by
us, would have an adverse effect on Ford Credit’s business.

We sponsor special-rate financing programs
available only through Ford Credit. Under these programs, we
make interest supplement or other support payments to Ford
Credit. These programs may increase Ford Credit’s financing
volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. See
Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more
information about these support payments.

Under a profit maintenance agreement with Ford
Credit, we have agreed to make payments to maintain Ford
Credit’s earnings at certain levels. In addition, under a
support agreement with FCE, Ford Credit has agreed to maintain
FCE’s net worth above a minimum level. No payments were
made under either of these agreements during the 2002 through
2004 periods.

The Hertz Corporation

The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”), an
indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford, and its affiliates,
associates and independent licensees represent what we believe
is the largest worldwide general use car rental brand based upon
revenues. Hertz maintains a substantial network of company-owned
car rental locations in the United States, Europe and other
countries, and what we believe to be the largest number of
on-airport car rental locations in the world, enabling Hertz to
provide consistent quality, pricing and service worldwide. Hertz
derives approximately 74% of its car rental revenues from
on-airport locations. The Hertz #1 Club Gold® service
provides an expedited rental service to members worldwide.
Through its many travel industry relationships with airlines and
hotels, Hertz has targeted the most frequent travelers to become
Hertz #1 Club Gold® members.

Hertz, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Hertz
Equipment Rental Corporation (“HERC”), also operates
one of the largest industrial and construction equipment rental
businesses in North America based upon revenues and maintains a
significant market share in the North American industrial and
construction equipment rental market. HERC rents a broad range
of earthmoving equipment, material handling equipment, aerial
and electrical equipment, air compressors, pumps, small tools,
compaction equipment and construction-related trucks.

Other activities of Hertz include self-insurance
operations for both its car rental and industrial and
construction equipment rental businesses, the sale of its used
cars and equipment and third-party claim management services.

Hertz operates its businesses from over 7,200
locations throughout the United States and in over
150 foreign countries and jurisdictions.

Below are some financial highlights for Hertz as
consolidated in our Statement of Income (in millions):


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS

A number of governmental standards and
regulations relating to safety, corporate average fuel economy
(“CAFE”), emissions control, noise control,
damageability, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor
vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the
United States, Europe and elsewhere. In addition, manufacturing
and assembly facilities in the United States, Europe and
elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air
emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of
hazardous substances. Such facilities also may be subject to
comprehensive national, regional, and/or local permit programs
with respect to such matters.

Mobile Source Emissions Control

U.S. Requirements.

The federal Clean Air Act imposes stringent limits on the amount
of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new
motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the United
States. In 1999, the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”) promulgated post-2004 model year
standards that were more stringent than the default standards
contained in the Clean Air Act. These regulations require
light-duty trucks and certain heavy-duty passenger-carrying
trucks to meet the same emissions standards as passenger cars by
the 2007 model year, and extend emissions durability
requirements to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the
specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). The
stringency of these standards presents compliance challenges and
is likely to hinder efforts to employ light-duty diesel
technology, which could negatively impact our ability to meet
CAFE standards. The EPA also promulgated post-2004 emission
standards for “heavy-duty” trucks
(8,500-14,000 lbs. gross vehicle weight), which are also
likely to pose technological challenges.

The EPA also is evaluating the need for new
mobile source rules addressing a different group of pollutants
called air toxics. The EPA is expected to issue a proposed
rulemaking in 2005 that will probably lead to new standards; it
is too early to determine what impact this will have on vehicle
emission control systems. In addition, the EPA designated
several new areas as ozone and/or particulate matter
non-attainment areas, which may result in the EPA implementing
even more stringent emission standards for vehicles in the
2009-2010 timeframe.

Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California has
received a waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique
emissions control standards. New vehicles and engines sold in
California must be certified by the California Air Resources
Board (“CARB”). CARB has adopted stringent vehicle
emissions standards that began phasing in with the 2004 model
year. These new standards treat most light-duty trucks the same
as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet
new stringent emissions requirements. As with the EPA’s
post-2004 standards, CARB’s vehicle standards present a
difficult engineering challenge, and will essentially rule out
the use of light-duty diesel technology.

Since 1990, the California program has included
requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale
zero-emission vehicles (“ZEVs”), which produce no
emissions of regulated pollutants (typically battery-powered
vehicles, which have had narrow consumer appeal due to their
limited range, reduced functionality, and high cost). This ZEV
mandate initially required that a specified percentage of each
manufacturer’s vehicles produced for sale in California be
ZEVs, beginning at 2% in 1998 and increasing to 10% in 2003. In
1996, CARB eliminated the ZEV mandate for the 1998-2002 model
years, but retained the 10% mandate in a modified form beginning
with the 2003 model year.

In April 2003, CARB adopted new amendments to the
ZEV mandate that shifted the near-term focus of the regulation
away from battery-electric vehicles to advanced-technology
vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas
vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions. The rules


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

also give some credit for so-called “partial
zero emission vehicles” (“PZEVs”), which can be
internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low
tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. In addition,
the rules call on the auto industry to ramp up production of
zero-emission fuel cell vehicles over the longer term. In the
aggregate, the industry must produce 250 zero-emission fuel cell
vehicles by the 2008 model year, and 2,500 more in the 2009-2011
model year period. A panel of independent experts will review
the feasibility of these requirements in 2006. While the changes
appear to reflect a recognition that battery-electric vehicles
simply do not have the potential to achieve widespread customer
acceptance, there are substantial questions about the
feasibility of producing the required number of fuel-cell
vehicles due to the substantial engineering challenges and high
costs associated with this technology.

The Clean Air Act permits other states that do
not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt
California’s motor vehicle emission standards no later than
two years before the affected model year. New York,
Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine adopted the California
standards effective with the 2001 model year or before; New
York, Massachusetts and Vermont have adopted the California ZEV
mandate beginning with the 2007 model year. In January 2004, the
New Jersey legislature voted to adopt California standards,
including the ZEV mandate, beginning with model year 2009. Other
states, including Maryland, New Hampshire, Oregon and
Washington, are currently considering the adoption of California
standards, including the ZEV mandate. There are problems
inherent in transferring California standards to other states,
including the following: 1) the driving range of many ZEVs
is greatly diminished in cold weather, thereby limiting their
market appeal; and 2) the northeast states have refused to
adopt the California reformulated gasoline regulations, which
may impair the ability of vehicles to meet California’s
in-use standards.

Ford has accumulated ZEV credits in California,
New York and Massachusetts through past sales of battery
electric vehicles, and we have plans to accumulate more credits
by selling future PZEV models. In the longer term, however, it
is doubtful whether the market will support the number of
required ZEVs, even taking into account the recent modifications
of the ZEV mandate. Fuel cell technology may in the future
enable production of ZEVs with widespread consumer appeal.
However, due to the engineering challenges, the high cost of the
technology, infrastructure needs, and other issues, it does not
appear that mass production of fuel cell vehicles will be
commercially feasible for years to come. Compliance with the ZEV
mandate may eventually require costly actions that would have a
substantial adverse effect on Ford’s sales volume and
profits. For example, Ford could be required to curtail the sale
of non-ZEVs and/or offer to sell ZEVs and PZEVs well below cost.

Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA and CARB may
require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming
vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by
the manufacturer, EPA or CARB), or we may voluntarily stop
shipment of or recall non-conforming vehicles. The costs of
related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or
a stop shipment order, could be substantial.

European
Requirements.

European Union
(“EU”) directives and related legislation limit the
amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor
vehicles and engines sold in the EU. In 1998, the EU adopted a
new directive on emissions from passenger cars and light
commercial trucks. More stringent emissions standards applied to
new car certifications beginning January 1, 2000 and to new
car registrations beginning January 1, 2001
(“Stage III Standards”). A second level of even
more stringent emissions standards apply to new car
certifications beginning January 1, 2005 and to new car
registrations beginning January 1, 2006
(“Stage IV Standards”). The comparable light
commercial truck Stage III Standards and Stage IV
Standards come into effect one year later than the passenger car
requirements. The directive also introduced on-board diagnostic
requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements,
and in-service compliance testing and recall provisions for
emissions-related defects that occur in the first five years or


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

80,000 kilometers of vehicle life (extended
to 100,000 kilometers in 2005). Failures of in-service
compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial
costs for related inspections or repairs. The Stage IV
Standards for diesel engines have proven technologically
difficult and have precluded manufacturers from offering some
products in time to be eligible for government incentive
programs. A related EU directive was adopted, also in 1998,
which established standards for cleaner fuels beginning in 2000
and even cleaner fuels in 2005. The EU commenced a program in
2004 to determine the specifics for further changes to vehicle
emission standards.

Other National
Requirements.

Many countries, in an
effort to address their air quality problems, are adopting
previous versions of European or United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe mobile source emissions regulations. Some
countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the
most recent version of European or U.S. regulations; for
example, China has adopted the most recent European standards to
be implemented in the 2008-2010 timeframe. Korea and Taiwan have
adopted very stringent U.S. based standards. Because fleet
average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emission control
systems may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in
these markets. Japan has unique standards and test procedures
and is considering more stringent standards for implementation
in 2009. This may require unique emission control systems being
designed for the Japanese market.

Stationary Source Emissions Control

In the United States, the Federal Clean Air Act
also requires the EPA to identify “hazardous air
pollutants” from various industries and promulgate rules
restricting their emission. The EPA has issued proposed or final
rules for a variety of industrial categories, several of which
would further regulate emissions from our U.S. operations,
including engine testing, automobile surface coating and iron
casting. These technology-based standards could require certain
of our facilities to significantly reduce their air emissions.
Additional programs under the Clean Air Act, including
Compliance Assurance Monitoring and periodic monitoring could
require our facilities to install additional emission monitoring
equipment. The cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with
these requirements could be substantial.

Motor Vehicle Safety

U.S. Requirements.

The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the
“Safety Act”) regulates motor vehicles and motor
vehicle equipment in the United States in two primary ways.
First, the Safety Act prohibits the sale in the United States of
any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable
motor vehicle safety standards established by the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”).
Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, because
the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle
weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards.
Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor
vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. A
manufacturer also is obligated to recall vehicles if it
determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety
standard. Should Ford or NHTSA determine that either a safety
defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of
Ford’s vehicles, the costs of such recall campaigns could
be substantial. There were pending before NHTSA six
investigations relating to alleged safety defects or potential
compliance issues in Ford vehicles as of February 21, 2005.

The Transportation Recall Enhancement,
Accountability, and Documentation Act (the “TREAD
Act”) was signed into law in November 2000. The
TREAD Act required NHTSA to establish several new
regulations, including reporting requirements for motor vehicle
manufacturers on foreign recalls and certain information
received by the manufacturer that may assist the agency in the
early identification of safety defects. As part of its
rulemaking efforts, NHTSA defined certain types of material
provided by manufacturers as competitively sensitive and
entitled to a presumption of


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

confidentiality, including warranty claim
information, field reports, and consumer complaint information.
Public Citizen, an advocacy organization, has filed a lawsuit
challenging NHTSA’s confidentiality determinations, which
may be resolved in the 2005 calendar year. If Public Citizen
prevails, Ford and other manufacturers may lose the ability to
protect warranty and consumer information after it is submitted
to NHTSA pursuant to the TREAD Act.

Foreign
Requirements.

Canada, the EU,
individual member countries within the EU, and other countries
in Europe, South America and the Asia Pacific markets also have
safety standards applicable to motor vehicles and are likely to
adopt additional or more stringent standards in the future. In
addition, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association
(“EAMA”) (also known in Europe as the
“ACEA”), of which Ford is a member, made a voluntary
commitment in June 2001 to introduce a range of safety measures
to improve pedestrian protection with the first phase starting
in 2005 and a second phase starting in 2010. Similar commitments
were subsequently made by the Japanese and Korean automobile
manufacturers associations. As a result, over 99% of cars and
small vans sold in Europe are covered by industry safety
commitments. The European Council of Ministers and the European
Parliament published a directive in December 2003 and a decision
in February 2004, which together lay down detailed technical
provisions for enforcement of the industry commitments
(i.e., the application dates, the types of tests to be
conducted the test procedures to be used and the limit values to
be achieved).

Motor Vehicle Fuel Economy

U.S. Requirements.

Under federal law, vehicles must meet minimum corporate average
fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards set by NHTSA. A
manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil
penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model
year, after taking into account all available credits for the
preceding three model years and expected credits for the three
succeeding model years.

The law established a passenger car CAFE standard
of 27.5 miles per gallon for 1985 and later model years,
which NHTSA believes it has the authority to amend to a level it
determines to be the maximum feasible level. In April 2003,
NHTSA issued a final rule increasing the CAFE standard for light
trucks to 21.0 miles per gallon for model year 2005;
21.6 miles per gallon for model year 2006; and
22.2 miles per gallon for model year 2007. NHTSA is
currently seeking public comment on the possibility of changing
the framework of the light truck CAFE standards and/or creating
a new vehicle classification scheme, and is working to set light
truck standards for the 2008 model year and beyond. It is
anticipated that NHTSA will also start a rulemaking process to
increase CAFE standards for passenger cars in the near future.
There is renewed interest in CAFE in Congress, and there is some
potential for new legislation that avoids the regulatory process
and establishes new standards by statute. Pressure to increase
CAFE standards stems in part from concerns over “greenhouse
gas” emissions, which may affect the global climate.

In 1999, a petition was filed with the EPA
requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions (a
greenhouse gas) from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act,
which would have the effect of imposing more stringent fuel
economy standards. The petitioners filed suit in an effort to
compel a formal response from the EPA. In August 2003, the EPA
denied the petition on the grounds that 1) the Clean Air
Act does not authorize the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions, and 2) only NHTSA is authorized to regulate fuel
economy under the CAFE law. A number of states, cities, and
environmental groups filed for review of the EPA’s decision
in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. A coalition of states and industry trade
groups, including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an
industry trade group made up of nine leading automotive
manufacturers including BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, General
Motors and Toyota (the “Alliance”), intervened in
support of the EPA’s decision. The case has been briefed
and oral argument is currently scheduled for April 2005.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

In September 2004, CARB adopted greenhouse gas
emissions regulations for 2009 model year and later cars and
trucks, effectively imposing more stringent fuel economy
standards than those set by NHTSA. These regulations impose
standards that are equivalent to a CAFE standard of more than
43 miles per gallon for passenger cars and small trucks,
and approximately 27 miles per gallon for light- and
medium-duty passenger trucks by model year 2016. The Alliance
and individual companies (including Ford) submitted comments
opposing the rules and addressing errors in CARB’s
underlying economic and technical analyses. In December 2004,
the Alliance filed suit, challenging the regulation on several
bases, including that it is preempted by the federal CAFE law.
Other states are considering similar greenhouse gas legislation
(primarily those states that have adopted or are adopting the
earlier California emissions regulations).

In general, a continued increase in demand for
larger vehicles, coupled with a decline in demand for small and
middle-size vehicles, could jeopardize our long-term ability to
comply with CAFE standards. In addition, if significant
increases in CAFE standards for upcoming model years are imposed
beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if the EPA or
other agencies regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor
vehicles, we might find it necessary to take various costly
actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales
volume and profits. For example, we might have to curtail
production of larger, family-size and luxury cars and full-size
light trucks, restrict offerings of engines and popular options,
and increase market support programs for our most fuel-efficient
cars and light trucks.

European
Requirements.

The EU is a party to the
Kyoto Protocol and has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
by 8% below their 1990 levels during the 2008-2012 period. In
December 1997, the European Council of Environment Ministers
(the “Environment Council”) reaffirmed its goal to
reduce average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars to
120 grams per kilometer by 2010 (at the latest) and invited
European motor vehicle manufacturers to negotiate further with
the European Commission on a satisfactory voluntary
environmental agreement to help achieve this goal. In October
1998, the EU agreed to support an environmental agreement with
EAMA (of which Ford is a member) on carbon dioxide emission
reductions from new passenger cars (the “Agreement”).
The Agreement establishes an emission target of 140 grams
of carbon dioxide per kilometer for the average of new cars sold
in the EU by the EAMA’s members in 2008. Average carbon
dioxide emissions of 140 grams per kilometer for new
passenger cars corresponds to a 25% reduction in average carbon
dioxide emissions compared to 1995. To date, the industry has
made good progress and has met the interim target for 2003
(165 — 170 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer).

In 2005, EAMA and the European Commission will
review the potential for additional carbon dioxide reductions,
with a view to moving further toward the EU’s objective of
120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer by 2010.

In 1995, members of the German Automobile
Manufacturers Association (“GAMA”) (including Ford
Werke GmbH) made a voluntary pledge to increase by 2005 the
average fuel economy of new cars sold in Germany by 25% from
1990 levels, to make regular reports on fuel consumption, and to
increase industry research and development efforts toward this
end. GAMA has reported that the industry is on track to meet
this pledge.

Other European countries are considering other
initiatives for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from motor
vehicles, including fiscal measures. For example, the UK
introduced vehicle excise duty and company car taxation based on
carbon dioxide emissions in 2001. Taken together, such proposals
could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volumes and
profits in Europe.

Other National
Requirements.

Asian countries have
also adopted fuel efficiency targets. For example, Japan has
fuel efficiency targets for 2010 passenger car and
commercial trucks with incentives for early adoption. China has
adopted targets for 2005 and 2008 and is expected to continue
setting new targets to address energy security issues.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Canada has been working with the auto sector to
decrease greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles by 2010. With
the ratification of the Kyoto Agreement, Canada has been
aggressively trying to finalize a voluntary agreement with the
auto industry. Depending on the negotiations, costly vehicle or
market actions may have to be taken to achieve these targets.

Recycling End-of-Life Vehicles

U.S. Requirements.

Maine has adopted an automotive end-of-life mercury switch
collection program. Under Maine’s law, automobile
manufacturers pay for the collection and recycling of these
switches. Several additional states and the EPA are also looking
at manufacturer responsibility for mercury switches. Actions
associated with this movement could be costly.

European
Requirements.

The European Parliament
has published a directive imposing an obligation on motor
vehicle manufacturers to take back end-of-life vehicles with
zero or negative value registered after July 1, 2002, and
to take back all other end-of-life vehicles with zero or
negative value as of January 1, 2007, with no cost to the
last owner. The directive also imposes requirements on the
proportion of the vehicle that may be disposed of in landfills
and the proportion that must be reused or recycled beginning in
2006, and bans the use of certain substances in vehicles
beginning with vehicles registered after July 2003. Member
states may apply these provisions prior to the dates mentioned
above.

Presently, there are numerous uncertainties
surrounding the form and implementation of the legislation in
different member states, especially regarding
manufacturers’ responsibilities and the resultant expenses
that may be incurred. As of December 31, 2004, the
following member states had adopted legislation to implement the
directive: The Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Austria, Spain,
Luxemburg, Italy, France, Portugal, Finland, Greece, Denmark and
Sweden (Denmark and Sweden both continuing existing systems).
The UK has adopted legislation for new vehicles and has
legislation pending to address vehicles already sold, while
Ireland is expected to complete legislation addressing new and
existing vehicles in 2005. Based on the legislation that has
been enacted to date and favorable contracts signed with local
operators in charge of the return and treatment of vehicles, we
have been able to reduce accruals at December 31, 2004 for
compliance costs we expect to incur for our existing vehicle
populations in these and other countries. The directive should
not result in significant cash expenditures before 2007.

Mobile Air Conditioning

The European Commission adopted a draft
regulation in August 2003 to phase out the use of HFC-134a as a
refrigerant in mobile air conditioning units. The regulation
would phase out the use of this refrigerant between 2009 and
2013 and provide credits for the early introduction of more
leak-resistant air conditioning systems and alternative
refrigerants. These requirements may increase the cost of
vehicle air conditioning. This proposed regulation has been
referred to the European Council and the European Parliament for
their consideration.

European Chemicals Policy

The European Commission adopted a draft
regulation in October 2003 for a single system to register,
evaluate, and authorize the use of certain chemicals
(“REACH”). Final adoption of the regulation is
anticipated in the 2006-2007 timeframe, followed by a
pre-registration phase of three years. After that initial phase,
a prioritization of all registered substances is likely to be
conducted (using criteria yet to be determined). The regulation
may accelerate the ban or restriction on use of certain
chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of
certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and
parts.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Pollution Control Costs

During the period 2005 through 2009, we expect to
spend approximately $350 million on our North American and
European facilities to comply with air and water pollution and
hazardous waste control standards, which are now in effect or
are scheduled to come into effect. Of this total, we estimate
spending approximately $100 million in 2005 and
$60 million in 2006. Specific environmental expenses are
difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more
than one purpose, making precise classification difficult.

EMPLOYMENT DATA

The number of on-roll employees we employed in
consolidated entities (including entities we do not control), by
business unit, at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was:

As shown in the employment data above, from
December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004, the number of
people we employ decreased approximately one percent. This
decrease primarily reflects capacity reductions and improved
manufacturing efficiencies in North America and Europe, offset
partially by the addition of newly consolidated European
dealerships and our expanding business in South America, Asia
Pacific and at Hertz. The employment numbers in the table above
exclude approximately 17,700 hourly employees of Ford who
are assigned to Visteon Corporation (“Visteon”), our
largest supplier, and, pursuant to our collective bargaining
agreement with the International Union, United Automobile,
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (the
“UAW”), remain Ford employees. Visteon reimburses us
for most of the costs associated with these employees. See
Item 7. “Management Discussion and
Analysis — Outlook” for additional discussion
relating to Visteon.

Substantially all of the hourly employees in our
Automotive operations in the United States are represented by
unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our
Automotive segment are represented by the UAW. Approximately 3%
of our salaried employees are represented by unions. Most hourly
employees and many non-management salaried employees of our
subsidiaries outside the United States also are represented by
unions.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Our average labor cost per hour worked for hourly
employees of Ford Motor Company in the United States (including
employees assigned to Visteon Corporation), excluding
subsidiaries, was as follows for the listed years:

We have entered into collective bargaining
agreements with the UAW and the National Automobile, Aerospace,
Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(“CAW”). Among other things, our agreements with the
UAW and CAW provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels
throughout their terms and provide for significant employment
security. As a practical matter, these agreements may restrict
our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest
businesses. Our agreement with the UAW is scheduled to expire on
September 14, 2007, and our agreement with the CAW is
scheduled to expire on September 20, 2005. Historically,
negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements with the UAW
and CAW have typically resulted in increases in wages and
benefits, including retirement benefits, and some of these
increases typically have been provided to salaried employees as
well.

In 2004, we negotiated new Ford agreements with
labor unions in Argentina, Brazil, Britain, France, Germany,
Mexico, Southern Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Venezuela, and
Vietnam. We also negotiated new collective bargaining agreements
to cover employees at our Jaguar (Britain), Land Rover (Britain)
and Volvo (Sweden) affiliates.

We are or will be negotiating new Ford collective
bargaining agreements with labor unions in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, France, Mexico, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam
where current agreements will expire in 2005. We will also be
negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to cover
employees at our Aston Martin (Britain), Land Rover (Britain)
and Volvo (Belgium and Sweden) affiliates in 2005.

In recent years, we have not had significant work
stoppages at our facilities, but they have occurred in some of
our suppliers’ facilities. A work stoppage could occur as a
result of disputes under our collective bargaining agreements
with labor unions or in connection with negotiations of new
collective bargaining agreements, which, if protracted, could
adversely affect our business and results of operation. Work
stoppages at supplier facilities for labor or other reasons
could have similar consequences if alternate sources of
components are not readily available. Our Canadian operations,
which are covered by the CAW agreement expiring in September
2005, include facilities that are the primary source of engines
for many of our truck and sport utility models, which are among
our most profitable models. Therefore, any protracted work
stoppage at our Canadian facilities in connection with the
negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement with the
CAW could have a substantial adverse effect on our business.

ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT

We conduct engineering, research and development
primarily to improve the performance (including fuel
efficiency), safety and customer satisfaction of our products,
and to develop new products. We also have staffs of scientists
who engage in basic research. We maintain extensive engineering,
research and design centers for these purposes, including large
centers in Dearborn, Michigan; Dunton, Gaydon and Whitley,
England; Gothenburg, Sweden; and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany.
Most of our engineering research and development relates to our
Automotive sector. In general, our engineering activities that
do not involve basic research or product development, such as
manufacturing engineering, are excluded from our engineering,
research and development charges discussed below.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

During the last three years, we recorded charges
to our consolidated income for engineering, research and
development we sponsored in the following amounts:
$7.4 billion (2004), $7.3 billion (2003), and
$7.5 billion (2002). Any customer-sponsored research and
development activities that we conduct are not material.

ITEM 2.

Properties

Our principal properties include manufacturing
and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales
or administrative offices and engineering centers.

We own substantially all of our
U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities. These
facilities are situated in various sections of the country and
include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal
stamping plants, and transmission plants. Most of our
distribution centers are leased (approximately 38% of our total
square footage is owned). A substantial amount of our
warehousing is provided by third party providers under service
contracts. Because the facilities provided pursuant to third
party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or
even primarily to use by Ford, these spaces are not included in
the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the
table below. All of the warehouses that we operate are leased,
although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities
contain some warehousing space. Substantially all of our sales
offices are leased space. Approximately 92% of the total square
footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary
research and development space is owned by us.

In addition, we maintain and operate
manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution
centers, and engineering centers outside the United States. We
own substantially all of the manufacturing plants, assembly
facilities, and engineering centers. The majority of our parts
distribution centers outside of the United States are either
leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. As in the
United States, space provided by vendors under service contracts
need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to use by
Ford, and is not included in the number of distribution
centers/warehouses listed in the table below.

The total number of plants, distribution
centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development
sites, and sales offices used by our Automotive segments are
shown below.

Included in the number of plants used by the Ford
Europe and PAG and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/ Mazda segments
shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by
us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate
plants that support our Automotive sector. The following are the
most significant of these consolidated joint ventures and the
number of plants they own:

•

Ford
    Otosan

— a joint venture in
    Turkey between Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of Turkey
    (41% partner) and public investors (18%) that is our single
    source supplier of the Ford Transit Connect vehicle and our sole
    distributor of Ford vehicles in Turkey. In addition, Ford Otosan
    makes the Ford Transit van and the Cargo truck for the Turkish
    and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions under
    license. This joint venture owns and operates two plants in
    Turkey.

•

Getrag Ford Transmissions
    GmbH

— a 50/50 joint venture
    with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH & Co. Kg i.G., a
    German company, to which we transferred our European manual


Item 2. Properties
(Continued)


Item 2. Properties
(Continued)

as Mazda and Suzuki. In addition to domestic
    assembly, FLH also has local product development capability to
    modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports Ford-brand
    built-up vehicles from Europe and the United States. This joint
    venture operates one plant.

In addition to the plants that we operate
directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures,
additional plants that support our Automotive sector are
operated by other, non-consolidated joint ventures of which we
are a partner. These additional plants are not included in the
number of plants shown in the table above. The most significant
of these joint ventures are:


Item 2. Properties
(Continued)

Ford vehicles assembled by its wholly-owned
    subsidiary AMI, an assembly company, including Econovan, Escape,
    Everest, Laser and Ranger.

The furniture, equipment and other physical
property owned by our Financial Services operations are not
material in relation to their total assets.

The facilities owned or leased by us or our
subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the
opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture
and assembly of our products.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

OVERVIEW

Various legal actions, governmental
investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be
instituted or asserted in the future against us and our
subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out
of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental
regulations covering safety, emissions, and fuel economy;
financial services; employment-related matters; dealer,
supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual
property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; and
shareholder matters. Some of the pending legal actions are, or
purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters
involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or
other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands
for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs,
sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very
large expenditures. We regularly evaluate the expected outcome
of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. We
have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability
matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical
litigation payouts and trends. Expenses also have been accrued
for other litigation where losses are deemed probable and
reasonably estimable. These accruals are reflected in our
financial statements.

Following is a discussion of our significant
pending legal proceedings:

PRODUCT LIABILITY MATTERS

Asbestos Matters.

Asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive
components dating from the early 1900s. Along with other vehicle
manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation
and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for
injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with
certain Ford parts and other products containing asbestos.
Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health
problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from
(i) component parts found in older vehicles
(ii) insulation or other asbestos products in our
facilities or (iii) asbestos aboard our former maritime
fleet. The majority of these cases have been filed in the state
courts.

Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves
mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of
our vehicles over the years. Also, in most asbestos litigation
we are not the sole defendant. We believe we are being more
aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously
targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. We are prepared to
defend these asbestos-related cases and, with respect to the
cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the
scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that
mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of
asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of
asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles.

The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos
litigation remains very difficult to estimate. The majority of
our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages,
and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is
the jurisdictional minimum. The vast majority of these cases
involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases
exceeding one hundred. Many of these


Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

cases involve multiple plaintiffs, and we are
often unable to tell from the pleadings which of the plaintiffs
are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants).
Our annual payout and related defense costs in asbestos cases
had been increasing between 1999 and 2003. In 2004, these costs
were about the same as in 2003; however, they may become
substantial in the future.

The United States Congress continues to consider
proposals to reform asbestos litigation. The lead proposal would
create a trust fund from which eligible asbestos claimants would
be compensated and would preclude, during the life of the trust,
litigation in the United States based on exposure to asbestos.
The trust fund would be funded by asbestos defendants (including
us) and the insurance industry. These funds would be used to pay
eligible claimants (i.e., those who satisfy specific medical
criteria and can adequately demonstrate occupational exposure to
asbestos) according to a specified schedule. If legislation is
enacted creating such a trust fund, we would likely be required
to make substantial contributions to the fund over a specified
period of time, resulting in our incurring a charge in the
amount of the present value of such anticipated contributions in
the period in which the legislation becomes effective. We cannot
predict whether or in what form the legislation will be enacted
or the costs associated with such enactment.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

General.

We have
received notices under various federal and state environmental
laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially
responsible party for the costs associated with remediating
numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal
sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural
resource damages. We also may have been a generator of hazardous
substances at a number of other sites. The amount of any such
costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be
substantial. The contingent losses that we expect to incur in
connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those
losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. However, for many
sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we
ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable
because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our
connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of
other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws
and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the
nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to
be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the
extent, duration, and success of remediation). As a result, we
are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of
costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible
in connection with these sites, although that total could be
substantial.

St. Louis Assembly Plant Enforcement
Action.

The Department of Justice has
advised us that the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”) has referred a matter regarding
refrigerants used in several types of process equipment at our
St. Louis Assembly Plant to it for civil enforcement. The
referral is based on their belief that the plant did not comply
with all of the Clean Air Act’s recordkeeping, testing, and
repair requirements related to process equipment with regulated
refrigerants. It is likely that the Department of Justice will
seek monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more for these alleged
violations.

Chicago Assembly Plant Notice of Violation
Regarding Waste Handling.

On
August 23, 2004, the EPA, Region Five, issued a letter
notifying Ford of its intent to file an administrative complaint
for civil penalties based on an initial determination that
Ford’s Chicago Assembly Plant violated certain requirements
of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The EPA’s
allegations arise out of an EPA inspection of the Chicago
Assembly Plant conducted in November 2002. The violations
alleged by EPA include: improper hazardous waste handling and
storage, improper waste characterizations and manifesting, and
failure to conduct and record certain tank and storage area
inspections. Ford and EPA met to discuss this matter in the
fourth quarter of 2004. It is reasonably possible that the EPA
could seek monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more for these
alleged violations.


Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

CLASS ACTIONS

The following are actions filed against us on
behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly
situated (i.e., purported class actions). In light of the fact
that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in
the past have ever been certified by the courts as class
actions, the actions listed below are limited to those that
(i) have been certified as a class action by a court of
competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class
actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a
certified case) and (ii) if resolved unfavorably to the
Company, would likely involve a significant cost.

Firestone
Class Actions.

A state court in
Illinois has certified a statewide class of purchasers and
lessees of 1991-2001 Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone ATX
or Wilderness tires who have not experienced any problems with
either the tires or the vehicles

(Rowan v. Ford Motor
Company)

. The complaint alleges that Explorers are unstable
and that the Firestone tires are defective. Plaintiffs claim
that the value of the vehicles was diminished because of the
alleged defects and seek unspecified actual and compensatory
damages and other relief. Trial is currently scheduled for
July 11, 2005, but we expect the trial will be rescheduled
for late 2005 or early 2006.

In February 2005, a state court in California
certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of
1990-2000 Ford Explorers

(Gray v. Ford Motor Company

and four coordinated cases). The complaint alleges that
Explorers are unstable and that Ford concealed information about
them. Plaintiffs seek relief similar to that sought in

Rowan

. We will seek appellate review of the class
certification order.

There are also 19 purported statewide class
actions pending in several states, raising allegations similar
to those raised in

Rowan

, and seeking similar relief.
Bridgestone-Firestone, Inc. (“Firestone”) is a
co-defendant in most of these cases, including

Rowan

.
Firestone has agreed to settle all claims against it in these
cases (including

Rowan

). Under the terms of the
settlement agreement, Firestone would implement manufacturing
improvements and fund a consumer awareness program relating to
tire use and maintenance. Firestone’s settlement would also
require plaintiffs to dismiss all class action claims against
Ford that are based on alleged defects in the tires. A Texas
trial court has approved the Firestone settlement, but that
ruling is currently on appeal to the Texas Court of Appeals. If
the Firestone settlement is approved on appeal, the only
remaining claims against Ford in

Rowan

and the purported
class actions would be allegations based on the Explorer’s
alleged rollover propensity.

Paint
Class Actions.

A state court in
Madison County, Illinois certified a nationwide class of owners
of 1989-96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint
peeling. Plaintiffs contend that their paint is defective in two
respects. First, they allege that, because Ford did not use
spray primer between the high-build electro coat
(“HBEC”) and the color coat in some models, the color
coat lost adhesion to the HBEC after extended exposure to
ultraviolet radiation from sunlight. Second, they allege that
the clearcoat on some models deteriorated prematurely.
Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages (in an amount
to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and to compensate
for alleged diminution in value), punitive damages,
attorneys’ fees and interest. Trial is currently scheduled
for June 2006.

Crown Victoria Police Interceptor
Class Actions.

State courts in
Illinois, Florida and Louisiana have certified statewide classes
of state and local governments that purchased or leased Crown
Victoria Police Interceptors. The complaints allege that the
vehicles are defective in that fires can occur when the vehicles
are struck in the rear at high speed, and seek modifications to
the fuel systems and other relief, including punitive damages.
Trial in the Illinois case during 2004

(St. Clair
County v Ford Motor Company)

resulted in a defense
verdict on all counts submitted to the jury; three counts remain
pending for decision by the judge.

There are also 16 purported statewide class
actions pending in several states which claim to represent state
and local governments that purchased or leased Crown Victoria
Police Interceptors,


Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

as well as seven purported class actions relating
to non-police Crown Victoria vehicles. These suits raise
allegations similar to those raised in

St. Clair County

,
and seek similar relief.

Hydroboost Truck Brake
Class Action.

A state court in
Oklahoma has certified a nationwide class of all purchasers of
1999-2002 F-250, F-350, F-450, and F-550 Ford Super Duty Trucks
and 2002 Excursions with hydroboost hydraulic braking systems.
The Oklahoma Court of Appeals has affirmed the order; we will
seek review by the Oklahoma Supreme Court. The complaint alleges
that these trucks are unsafe because they suffer diminished
power assist to the steering when the driver is simultaneously
braking and steering. The complaint alleges breach of warranty
and fraud, and seeks the cost of retrofitting the trucks to
eliminate the alleged danger, compensation for diminished resale
value, and other amounts. NHTSA investigated a similar issue and
closed the investigation, finding that “diminished steering
assist while braking is present” in these trucks, but that
the “associated injury and property damage incidents are so
rare that they do not present a risk to vehicle safety.”

OTHER MATTERS

SEC Pension and Post-Employment Benefit
Accounting Inquiry.

On
October 14, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) notified
Ford that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used
to account for pensions and other post-employment benefits. We
are one of several companies to receive a request for
information as part of this inquiry. We are cooperating with the
SEC in providing the information requested.

SEC Ford Money Market
Account Inquiry.

In January 2004,
the SEC requested information from Ford Credit relating to the
offering of debt securities under Ford Credit’s Ford Money
Market Account (“FMMA”) program. Under the FMMA
program, Ford Credit offers floating rate variable denomination
demand debt securities to individual investors. Following the
submission of information, the SEC Staff and Ford Credit have
been in discussions about resolving concerns the Staff
identified regarding the use of certain marketing and
solicitation materials. In March 2005, Ford Credit made a
settlement offer, with Ford Credit neither admitting nor denying
the Staff’s allegations, which included the issuance of a
Cease and Desist Order requiring that Ford Credit comply with
Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with
all marketing and solicitation materials. The terms of the
tentative settlement also require Ford Credit to undertake to
discontinue or change certain aspects of its marketing practices
relating to the FMMA program and to pay the SEC approximately
$760,000 in disgorgement (based on cost savings relating to
those practices). The SEC Staff has indicated that it will
recommend this settlement offer to the Commission. The tentative
settlement is subject to approval by the full Commission of the
SEC.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

Not required.


ITEM 4A.

Executive Officers of Ford

Our executive officers and their positions and
ages at March 1, 2005 unless otherwise noted, are shown in
the table below:

(a)

Also Chair of the Environmental and Public Policy
    Committee and the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Committee and a member of the Finance Committee of the Board of
    Directors.

(b)

Also a member of the Office of the Chairman and
    Chief Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.

All of the above officers, except those noted
below, have been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or
more capacities during the past five years. Described below are
the positions (other than those with Ford or its subsidiaries)
held by those officers who have not been with Ford or its
subsidiaries for five years:

•

Mr. Laymon was Vice President, US and Canada
    Region and Director, Human Resources, Worldwide Regions, for
    Eastman Kodak Company from 1996 to 2000.

•

Mr. Ojakli served as Principal Deputy for
    Legislative Affairs for President Bush from December 2002
    to 2003, and was Deputy Assistant to the President from 2001 to
    2002. Prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the Policy
    Director and Chief of Staff to the Senate Republican Conference
    Secretary.

Under Ford’s By-Laws, the executive officers
are elected by the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of
the Board of Directors held for this purpose. Each officer is
elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or
as otherwise provided in the By-Laws.


PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Ford’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York and
Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges in the United States and on
certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom.

The table below shows the high and low sales
prices for our Common Stock and the dividends we paid per share
of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in
2004 and 2003.

*

New York Stock Exchange composite interday prices
    as listed in the price history database available at
    www.NYSEnet.com.

As of February 24, 2005, stockholders of
record of Ford included 188,047 holders of Common Stock (which
number does not include 9,603 former holders of old Ford Common
Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our
recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which
became effective on August 9, 2000) and 103 holders of
Class B Stock.

During the fourth quarter of 2004, we purchased
shares of our Common Stock as follows:

*

We currently do not have a publicly announced
    repurchase program in place. Of the 4,985,411 shares
    purchased, 4,982,254 shares were purchased from the Ford
    Motor Company Savings and Stock Investment Plan for Salaried
    Employees (“SSIP”) and the Tax Efficient Savings Plan
    for Hourly Employees (“TESPHE”). Shares are generally
    purchased from the SSIP and TESPHE when participants in those
    plans elect to sell units in the Ford Stock Fund upon
    retirement, upon termination of employment with the Company,
    related to an in-service distribution, or to fund a loan against
    an existing account balance in the Ford Stock Fund. Shares are
    not purchased from these plans when a participant transfers
    account balances out of the Ford Stock Fund and into another
    investment option under the plans. The remaining shares were
    acquired from our employees in accordance with our various
    compensation plans as a result of required share withholdings to
    pay income taxes with respect to (i) the lapse of
    restrictions on restricted stock, (ii) the issuance of
    stock as a result of the conversion of restricted stock
    equivalents awarded to our executives or directors, or to pay
    the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to the
    exercise of a stock option.


ITEM 6.

Selected Financial
Data

The following table sets forth selected financial
data concerning Ford for each of the last five years (dollar
amounts in millions, except per share amounts). Prior-year
amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.


ITEM 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

OVERVIEW

Generation of Revenue, Income and
Cash

Our Automotive sector’s revenue, income and
cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our
dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we
produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers
and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale
recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and
shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with
respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car
companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or
vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management
evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car
companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are
accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and
profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the
vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the
difference, if any, between actual auction value and the
projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the
daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase
option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle
production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from
such sales.

Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers
and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon
Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a
dealer’s purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to
the relevant legal entity in our Automotive sector in payment of
the dealer’s obligation for the purchase price of the
vehicle. The dealer then pays off the wholesale finance
receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. (See
Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.)

Our Financial Services sector’s revenue is
generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of
certain deferred loan origination costs that are included as a
reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized
over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also,
revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred
origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent
revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest and
operating expenses.

Transactions between the Automotive and Financial
Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For
example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other
support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection
with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it
sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue over the
term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The
Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing
incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments
(e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing
programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the
related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive
program is both approved and communicated.

Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting
Automotive Industry

Excess Capacity.

According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2004
the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for
light vehicles (about 74 million units) significantly
exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about
60 million units). In North America and Europe, the two
regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in
the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 17% and 13%,
respectively. CSM Worldwide projects that excess capacity
conditions could continue for several more years.

Pricing Pressure.

Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products
being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep
pressure on manufacturers’ ability to increase prices on
their products. In addition, the incremental new capacity in the
United States by foreign manufacturers (so-called
“transplants”) in recent years has contributed, and is
likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure
in that market. In the United States, the reduction of real


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

prices for similarly contented vehicles has
become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that
a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to
come. In Europe, the automotive industry also has experienced
intense pricing pressure for several years for the same reasons
discussed above, which has been exacerbated in recent years as a
result of the Block Exemption Regulation discussed above in
Item 1. “Business — Automotive
Sector — Europe”.

Consumer Spending
Trends.

We expect, however, that a
decline in, or the inability to increase, vehicle prices could
be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their
propensity to purchase over time higher-end, more expensive
vehicles and/or vehicles with more features. Over the next
decade, in the United States and in other mature markets, we
expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will
grow at least as fast as real GDP per capita. The benefits of
this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are
significant. In the United States, for example, consumers in the
highest income bracket are buying more often and are more
frequently buying upscale.

Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e.,
volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade,
we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North
America, Western Europe and Japan) will continue to be the
source of a substantial majority of global industry revenues
over the next decade. We also expect that the North American
market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for
the automotive industry in the world in the next decade.

Health Care
Expenses.

As a provider of health care
coverage to our employees, retirees and their dependents,
primarily in the United States, we have experienced significant
health care inflation in the last few years. In 2004, our health
care expenses for U.S. employees, retirees and their
dependents were $3.1 billion, with about $2 billion
attributable to retirees and the balance attributable to active
employees. Prescription drug cost continues as the fastest
growing segment of our health care expenses and accounted for
about one-third of our total U.S. health care expenses in
2004.

Although we have taken measures to have employees
and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health
care benefits, we expect our health care costs to increase. For
2005, our trend assumptions for U.S. health care costs
include an initial trend rate of 9%, gradually declining to a
steady state trend rate of 5% reached in 2011. These assumptions
include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take
to offset health care inflation, including eligibility
management, employee education and wellness, competitive
sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing.

Commodity Price
Increases.

Commodity price increases,
particularly for steel and resins (which are used extensively in
the automotive industry), have occurred recently and are
continuing during a period of strong global demand for these
materials. Manufacturers in China and other global steelmakers
have responded through increases in capacity and production of
steel. We expect this, coupled with an easing in global demand
pressures, to result in pricing trends beginning to moderate in
the intermediate term.

Currency Exchange Rate
Volatility.

The U.S. dollar
depreciated against most major currencies in 2004. This created
downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have
U.S. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. Because we
produce vehicles in Europe (e.g., Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo
models) for sale in the United States and produce components in
Europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our North American
vehicles, Ford experienced margin pressure, although this was
partially offset by gains on foreign exchange derivatives. Ford,
like most other automotive manufacturers with sales in the
United States, is not always able to price for depreciation of
the U.S. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing
environment in the United States.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Trends and Strategies

Revenue Management.

To address the pricing pressure that exists in the automotive
industry, we have employed a customer-focused revenue management
strategy to maximize per unit revenue. This strategy is focused
on a disciplined approach to utilizing customer demand
data — available from many sources, including internet
hits, transaction data, customer leads, and research —
to help us develop and sell vehicles that more closely match
customer desires.

We believe our revenue management strategy has
contributed significantly to increases in our average net
revenue per vehicle sold for our Ford North America business
unit of $745 and $729 for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Since
2001, our average net revenue per vehicle sold in North America
has improved by over $1,700 on a cumulative basis. This
improvement reflected positive net pricing, as well as a more
favorable product mix.

Market Share.

An
ongoing challenge in the current automotive industry is
balancing market share with profitability. Due to the excess
industry capacity, most manufacturers engage in some amount of
price discounting to increase, maintain or limit decreases in
their respective market shares. In the last few years, we have
implemented a strategy of de-emphasizing less profitable sales
to daily rental car companies, which typically are associated
with a large amount of discounting, and placing greater emphasis
on our share of the retail market (i.e., market share among
end-use customers). This strategy benefits us by reducing the
overall amount of marketing incentives we incur and improving
the auction and resale values of our products. This latter
benefit, in turn, has the added benefit of reducing depreciation
expense for vehicles in Ford Credit’s vehicle lease
portfolio. The strategy to de-emphasize sales to daily rental
car companies, while contributing to improved profits, also has
contributed to a loss of share in the United States.

Product Differentiation and
Innovation.

The fundamental
requirement for success in the automotive business is having
products with great appeal, whether in terms of styling,
quality, innovative features, breakthrough technology or a
combination of those characteristics. Our strategy for product
creation includes a strong focus on new technology. This is not,
however, limited to developing and introducing breakthrough
vehicle technologies, but also can be applied to the total
vehicle package. For example, our new Ford F-150 pick-up
truck, first introduced as a 2004 model, utilizes more than 130
patented inventions related to performance, utility and styling.
This model helped establish a sales record for F-Series pick-up
trucks in 2004 with nearly one million units sold. Other
differentiating technologies that we have introduced or are
working to introduce for general availability are:


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Cost Reductions.

Given the difficult competitive environment of the automotive
industry, we continue to focus on reducing our cost structure.
During 2004 and 2003, we reduced our costs by $900 million
and $3 billion, respectively (at constant volume, mix and
exchange and excluding special items and discontinued
operations). For 2005, we expect costs for pensions and health
care, commodities, and depreciation and amortization will
increase, compared with 2004. We expect quality-related costs
(i.e., those related to warranty claims and additional
service actions) in 2005 to be about the same as they were in
2004. In 2005, we expect to achieve reduced manufacturing,
engineering and overhead costs, as well as significant savings
in product costs (which comprise material and component costs
for our vehicles), compared with 2004. Overall, we expect our
costs in 2005 will be about the same as they were in 2004 (at
constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items
and discontinued operations).

Shared Technologies.

One of the strategies we are employing to realize efficiencies
in manufacturing, engineering and product costs for new vehicles
is to share vehicle architectures, technologies and components
among various models and re-use them from one generation of a
vehicle model to the next. This is illustrated in our recently
launched Ford Five Hundred and Mercury Montego car models, which
are 85% (by value) common, and the Ford Freestyle cross-over
model, which shares 65% (by value) of the components used in
those aforementioned models. In addition, the architecture for
all three of these vehicles is derived from an existing
architecture.

Business Improvement Actions

Ford Europe Improvement
Plan.

In October 2003, we announced
that we were taking actions to improve efficiency resulting from
our flexible manufacturing capability by concentrating
production of the next generation of our Ford Focus model in two
assembly plants rather than three. This plan included canceling
investment for the Focus model at our Genk, Belgium plant. In
addition, it included revising production for our Ford Mondeo
model at Genk to a 2-shift rather than 3-shift pattern beginning
in January 2004. These Genk actions, together with a series of
manufacturing, engineering and staff efficiency actions at
various other locations in Europe, all of which comprised the
Ford Europe Improvement Plan, were expected to reduce personnel
levels by 6,700 and result in pre-tax charges of
$675 million, including $513 million in 2003. During
2004, we completed the planned Ford Europe improvement actions;
the associated pre-tax charges totaled $605 million.
Including the results of these actions, Ford Europe has reduced
total personnel levels by more than 7,000 since mid-2003.

PAG Improvement
Plan.

In September 2004, we announced
that we were taking actions to improve the structure of our
Premier Automotive Group (“PAG”) business unit. These
actions included closing the final assembly operations at our
Browns Lane plant in Coventry, England, where Jaguar XJ and
XK models are produced, and reducing salaried staffing levels at
our Jaguar and Land Rover operations. We estimated at that time
that we would incur pre-tax charges and cash expenditures of
about $175 million for employee separation costs. Our 2004
results include $94 million of these costs and we expect to
incur $75 million in 2005 associated with the shutdown of
the final assembly operations at Browns Lane. These actions
reduced our personnel levels by 1,100 in 2004, with further
personnel reductions in 2005 expected to be about 400.

In addition, we decided to exit Formula One
racing and to sell our Formula One racing operations, which
incurred pre-tax operating losses of $45 million in the
first nine months of 2004. We sold the operations in the fourth
quarter of 2004. For a further discussion of the disposition of
our Formula One racing operations, see Note 4 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements.

Revitalization Plan.

One of the elements of our Revitalization Plan, which we
announced and began implementing in January 2002, included a
reduction of maximum-installed assembly capacity for North
American vehicles of over 900,000 units (down from
5.7 million units in 2001 to an ongoing level of
approximately 4.8 million units). Through 2004, including
the closure of our Ontario Truck


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Plant and Edison Plant, maximum-installed
capacity will have been reduced by over 700,000 units.
Plans through 2007 (including closure of our Lorain, Ohio
assembly plant) will achieve further net reductions of
approximately 200,000 units, resulting in a total net
reduction of about 920,000 units.

The Revitalization Plan also included a global
reduction of more than 35,000 personnel by 2006, including
selected actions prior to 2002. Progress towards this target is
measured by excluding employees of entities recently
consolidated pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51

(“FIN 46”), discussed in Note 16 of the
Notes to the Financial Statements), as well as personnel
associated with divested and newly-acquired operations (the
latter of which would represent a net reduction of
11,000 personnel through year-end 2004 if included in the
measurement). On this basis, we have realized a reduction of
about 36,000 hourly and salaried employees and salaried
equivalents (i.e., salaried positions filled with agency
personnel or the functions of which are provided by purchased
services) through year-end 2004.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified
to conform to current period presentation.

FULL-YEAR 2004 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our worldwide net income was $3.5 billion or
$1.73 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2004,
up $3.0 billion from a profit of $495 million or
$0.27 per share in 2003.

Results by business sector for 2004, 2003, and
2002 are shown below (in millions):

(a)

Primarily related to Ford Europe’s
    consolidated less-than-100%-owned affiliates.

(b)

Related to adoption of FIN 46 in 2003 and
    the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 142 in 2002 (see Notes 16 and 9,
    respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements).


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Included in

Income/(loss) before income taxes

are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing
operating activities (“special items”). The following
table details the 2004 special items by business unit (in
millions):

See “Automotive Sector Results of
Operations — 2004 Compared with 2003” below for
discussion of special items.

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

2004 Compared with 2003

Details by Automotive business unit of

Income/(loss) before income taxes

are shown below
(in millions):


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle
unit sales by Automotive business unit for 2004 and 2003 are
shown below:

*

Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia
    Pacific and Africa are Ford-badged vehicles sold in China and
    Malaysia by our unconsolidated affiliates totaling 66,190 and
    33,906 units in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
    “Sales” above does not include revenue from these
    units.

Details of Automotive sector market share for
selected markets for 2004 and 2003 are shown below:

(a)

Excludes market share of our PAG brand vehicles
    (i.e., Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin).

(b)

European market share for Ford Europe and PAG are
    based, in part, on estimated 2004 vehicle registrations for our
    19 major markets.

Overall Automotive Sector

The improvement in

Income/(loss) before income
taxes

primarily reflected the change in charges related to
Visteon Corporation (“Visteon”), Ford’s largest
supplier (see “Ford North America” discussion below),
higher net pricing, favorable cost performance and the favorable
effect of tax-related interest on refunds and settlements of
prior-year federal and state audits, offset partially by lower
vehicle unit sales and unfavorable changes in currency exchange
rates.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

The table below details our achievement of our
2004 cost performance milestone (in billions):

*

At constant volume, mix and exchange and
    excluding special items and discontinued operations.

The Americas Segment

Ford North America.

The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the
non-recurrence of $1.6 billion of charges in 2003 related
to Visteon, offset by a charge of $600 million to establish
an allowance against a receivable from Visteon in 2004. The
receivable relates to costs for postretirement health care and
life insurance benefits provided to Ford hourly employees
assigned to Visteon and other select Visteon employees who are
former employees of Ford. The charges in 2003 related to
agreements with Visteon, which primarily addressed
postretirement health care costs for service prior to 2000 for
Ford hourly employees assigned to Visteon, as well as pricing,
sourcing and other arrangements.

In addition, the improvement in earnings
reflected positive net pricing and favorable cost performance,
offset partially by lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable
changes in currency exchange rates (primarily weakening of the
U.S. dollar compared with the Euro and the Canadian dollar)
and other special items (discussed below). Lower vehicle unit
sales reflected a decline in market share.

Other special items in 2004 included a charge of
$182 million related to our investment in Ballard Power
Systems Inc. (“Ballard”), a provider of fuel-cell
technology. The charge included a write-down to fair market
value of our investment in Ballard for the portion that is held
for sale and recognition of an other-than-temporary loss in
value on the long-term portion of our investment.

Ford South America.

The improvement in earnings primarily reflected positive net
pricing and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by
higher commodity costs.

Ford Europe and PAG Segment

Ford Europe.

The
improvement in earnings primarily reflected favorable cost
performance, lower charges related to the Ford Europe
Improvement Plan (primarily employee separation charges) (less
than $100 million in 2004 compared with $513 million
in 2003) and higher profits at our Ford Otosan joint venture in
Turkey. Favorable cost performance reflected successful
execution of the Ford Europe Improvement Plan and material cost
savings.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

PAG.

The increased
loss primarily reflected unfavorable changes in currency
exchange rates, as well as vehicle production reductions and
employee separation charges at Jaguar related to the
implementation of the PAG Improvement Plan and higher costs for
launching new vehicles, offset partially by positive net pricing.

Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/ Mazda
Segment

Ford Asia Pacific and
Africa.

The improvement in earnings
primarily reflected favorable changes in currency exchange rates
and higher vehicle unit sales, offset partially by a charge
related to the disposition of certain dealerships.

Mazda and Associated
Operations.

The change primarily
reflected improvements in our Mazda-related investments.

Other Automotive

The improvement in results primarily reflected
higher tax-related interest on refund claims (about
$600 million in 2004 compared to about $300 million in
2003) and the favorable effect on interest expense of the
settlements in 2004 of prior-year federal and state tax audits
and 2004 debt repurchases. This was offset partially by the
reclassification of interest expense on our 6.50% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2032 held by a subsidiary trust,
Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II (prior to July 1,
2003, this interest expense was included in

Minority
interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries)

. For 2005,
we expect pre-tax losses for Other Automotive to be in the range
of $500 million to $900 million.

2003 Compared with 2002

Details by Automotive business unit of

Income/(loss) before income taxes

are shown below (in
millions):


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle
unit sales for 2003 and 2002 are shown below:

*

Included in vehicle unit sales of Ford Asia
    Pacific and Africa are Ford-badged vehicles sold in China and
    Malaysia by our unconsolidated affiliates totaling 33,906 and
    17,404 units in 2003 and 2002, respectively.
    “Sales” above does not include revenue from these
    units.

Details of Automotive sector market share for
selected markets for 2003 and 2002 are shown below:

*

Excludes market share of our PAG brand vehicles
    (i.e., Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin).

The Americas Segment

Ford North America.

The reduction in earnings primarily reflected the charges
related to agreements with Visteon discussed above (see
“2004 compared with 2003 — The Americas Segment:
Ford North America”), lower vehicle unit sales, unfavorable
net pricing and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates,
offset partially by cost reductions and favorable product mix.

Ford South America.

The improvement in earnings primarily reflected the
non-recurrence of the adverse effects of currency devaluation in
Brazil and Argentina, increased market share and continuing
improvement in the business structure.

Ford Europe and PAG Segment

Ford Europe.

The
increased loss primarily reflected the charges related to the
Ford Europe Improvement Plan discussed above (see “2004
compared with 2003 — Ford Europe and PAG Segment: Ford
Europe”), unfavorable net pricing, a less favorable product
mix, unfavorable changes


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

in currency exchange rates and a larger reduction
in dealer stocks, offset partially by cost reductions and
improved results at Ford Otosan, our joint venture in Turkey.

PAG.

The improvement
in earnings primarily reflected cost reductions and improved
product mix, offset partially by unfavorable changes in currency
exchange rates and the non-recurrence of employee separation
charges incurred in 2002.

Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/ Mazda
Segment

Ford Asia Pacific and
Africa.

The improvement in earnings
primarily reflected favorable changes in currency exchange
rates, higher vehicle unit sales and positive net pricing.

Mazda.

The
improvement in earnings primarily reflected our share of
Mazda’s improved operating results.

Other Automotive

The improvement in loss primarily reflected the
non-recurrence of a charge in 2002 related to the sale of
non-core businesses, primarily Kwik-Fit Holdings Ltd.

FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

2004 Compared with 2003

Details of the full year Financial Services
sector

Income/(loss) before income taxes

for 2004 and
2003 are shown below (in millions):

*

Includes amortization expense related to
    intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz.

Ford Credit

The increase in income before income taxes of
$1,475 million primarily reflected improved credit loss
performance and improved leasing results. The improved credit
loss performance primarily resulted from fewer repossessions and
a lower average loss per repossession. The improvement in
leasing results primarily reflected higher used vehicle prices
and a reduction in the percentage of vehicles returned to Ford
Credit at lease termination.

Ford Credit reviews its business performance from
several perspectives, including:

•

On-balance sheet basis — includes the
    receivables Ford Credit owns and receivables sold for legal
    purposes that remain on Ford Credit’s balance sheet;

•

Securitized off-balance sheet basis —
    includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that
    are not reflected on Ford Credit’s balance sheet;


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

•

Managed basis — includes on-balance
    sheet and securitized off-balance sheet receivables that Ford
    Credit continues to service; and

•

Serviced basis — includes managed
    receivables and receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions
    where Ford Credit retains no interest in the sold receivables,
    but which it continues to service.

Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance
primarily on an on-balance sheet and managed basis. It retains
interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet
securitizations, and with respect to subordinated retained
interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates credit
losses, receivables and leverage on a managed basis as well as
on an on-balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not
have the same financial interest in the performance of
receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions, and as a
result it generally reviews the performance of the serviced
portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination
and collection activities. To evaluate the performance of these
activities, Ford Credit monitors a number of measures, such as
repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number
of bankruptcy filings.

Ford Credit’s finance receivables, net of
allowance for credit losses, and net investment in operating
leases for its on-balance sheet, securitized off-balance sheet,
managed and serviced portfolios are shown below (in billions):

*

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, Ford
    Credit’s retained interests in sold receivables were
    $9.2 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively. For more
    information regarding these retained interests, see
    “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” below.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

On-Balance Sheet
Receivables.

At December 31, 2004
and 2003, about $16.9 billion and $14.3 billion,
respectively, of finance receivables have been sold for legal
purposes to consolidated securitization special purpose entities
(“SPEs”). In addition, at December 31, 2004,
interests in operating leases and the related vehicles of about
$2.5 billion have been transferred for legal purposes to
consolidated securitization SPEs. These receivables and
interests in operating leases and the related vehicles are
available only for repayment of debt issued by those entities,
and to pay other securitization investors and other
participants; they are not available to pay Ford Credit’s
other obligations or the claims of Ford Credit’s other
creditors.

Securitized Off-Balance Sheet
Receivables.

Total securitized
off-balance sheet receivables decreased $11.3 billion from
a year ago.

Managed Receivables.

Total managed receivables decreased $7.1 billion from a
year ago. The decrease primarily reflected lower retail and
operating lease contract placement volumes. The lower level of
managed receivables reflected Ford Credit’s continued focus
on financing Ford brand vehicles.

The following table shows actual credit losses
net of recoveries, which are referred to as charge-offs, for
Ford Credit’s worldwide on-balance sheet, reacquired,
securitized off-balance sheet and managed receivables, for the
various categories of financing during the periods indicated.
Reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that
resulted from the accounting consolidation of FCAR Owner Trust
(“FCAR”) in the second quarter of 2003. The
loss-to-receivables ratios, which equal charge-offs divided by
the average amount of net receivables outstanding for the
period, are shown for the on-balance sheet and managed
portfolios.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

*

Ford Credit believes that the use of the
    on-balance sheet loss-to-receivables ratio that includes the
    charge-offs related to reacquired receivables is useful to
    investors because it provides a more complete presentation of
    Ford Credit’s on-balance sheet charge-off performance.

In 2004, charge-offs for Ford Credit’s
on-balance sheet and its securitized off-balance sheet
receivables declined from a year ago primarily reflecting fewer
repossessions and a lower average loss per repossession in its
U.S. retail installment and operating lease portfolio.
These improvements resulted from Ford Credit’s emphasis on
purchasing higher quality retail installment and lease contracts
and enhancements to its collection practices. The on-balance
sheet loss-to-receivables ratio decreased primarily reflecting
improvements in charge-offs as described above.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credit’s
allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and
operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar
amounts in billions):

*

Includes net investment in operating leases.

The decrease in the allowance for credit losses
of approximately $500 million primarily reflected
significantly improved charge-off performance in the United
States, specifically fewer repossessions and a lower average
loss per repossession in the Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand
U.S. retail installment sale and operating lease portfolio.
Ford Credit’s emphasis on purchasing higher quality
receivables, enhancements to its collection practices and higher
used vehicle prices resulted in a reduction in net charge-offs
and the associated provision for credit losses.

The following table summarizes the activity
related to off-balance sheet sales of receivables reported as
revenues for the periods indicated (in millions except for
ratios):

The decrease in investment and other income
related to sales of receivables reflected lower levels of
outstanding sold receivables compared with 2003.

Sales of finance receivables through off-balance
sheet securitizations have the impact on earnings of
recalendarizing and reclassifying net financing margin (i.e.,
financing revenue less interest expense) and credit losses
related to the sold receivables, compared with how they would
have been reported if Ford Credit continued to report the sold
receivables on-balance sheet and funded them through
asset-backed financings. Recalendarization effects occur
initially when the gain or loss on sales of receivables is
recognized in the period the receivables are sold. Over the life
of the securitization


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

transaction, Ford Credit recognizes income from
residual interest in securitization transactions, interest
income from retained securities, servicing fees and other
receivable sale income.

In addition, credit losses related to the
off-balance sheet securitized receivables are included in the
initial and ongoing valuation of Ford Credit’s residual
interest in the securitization transaction (see
“Off-balance Sheet Arrangements — Sales of
Receivables by Ford Credit” for definition) and neither
impact the

Provision for credit and insurance losses

on
the income statement nor influence the assessment of the
adequacy of the

Allowance for credit losses

related to
Ford Credit’s on-balance sheet receivables.

Therefore, over the life of each off-balance
sheet securitization transaction, the gain or loss on sale of
receivables, income from residual interest in securitization
transactions, interest income from retained securities,
servicing fees and other receivable sale income is equal to the
net financing margin and credit losses that would have been
reported had Ford Credit reported the receivables on its balance
sheet and funded them through asset-backed financings.

The net impact of off-balance sheet
securitizations on Ford Credit’s earnings in a given period
will vary depending on the amount and type of receivables sold
and the timing of the transactions in the current period and the
preceding two-to-three year period, as well as the interest rate
environment at the time the finance receivables were originated
and securitized.

The following table shows, on an analytical
basis, the earnings impact of off-balance sheet securitizations
as if Ford Credit had reported them as on-balance sheet and
funded them through asset-backed financings for the periods
indicated (in millions):

In 2004, the impact on earnings of reporting the
sold receivables as off-balance sheet securitizations was
$86 million lower than had these transactions been
structured as on-balance sheet securitizations. This difference
resulted from recalendarization effects caused by gain-on-sale
accounting requirements, as discussed above. This effect will
fluctuate as the amount of receivables sold in Ford
Credit’s off-balance sheet securitizations increases or
decreases over time. In a steady state of securitization
activity, the difference between reporting securitizations on-
or off-balance sheet in a particular year approaches zero. While
the difference in earnings impact between on- or off-balance
sheet securitizations is minimal, this funding source has
provided Ford Credit with significant borrowing cost savings
compared with unsecured debt and funding flexibility in a
difficult economic environment.

Hertz

The improvement in earnings primarily reflected
higher vehicle and equipment rental volumes, lower fleet costs
and higher proceeds received in excess of book value on the
disposal of used vehicles and equipment, offset partially by
lower pricing.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

2003 Compared with 2002

Details of the full-year Financial Services
sector

Income/(loss) before income taxes

for 2003 and
2002 are shown below (in millions):

*

Includes amortization expense related to
    intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz.

Ford Credit

The increase in income before income taxes
primarily reflected improved credit loss performance and the net
favorable market valuation of derivative instruments and
associated exposures, offset partially by the impact of lower
average net receivables.

Hertz

The improvement in earnings primarily reflected
an improved car rental pricing environment and lower costs.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Automotive Sector

Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient
funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the
business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include
maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from
operating-related activities, having a long-dated debt maturity
profile, maintaining committed credit facilities and funding
long-term liabilities over time.

Gross Cash.

Automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents,
marketable and loaned securities and assets contained in a
short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association trust
(“VEBA”) (see below). Gross cash as of
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is detailed below (in
billions):

*

As part of our investment strategy, we engage in
    securities lending to improve the returns on our cash
    portfolios. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Financial
    Statements for additional discussion on securities lending.

In managing our business, we classify changes in
gross cash into four categories: operating-related (both
including and excluding pension/long-term VEBA contributions and
tax refunds), capital transactions with the Financial Services
sector, acquisitions and divestitures and other (primarily
financing related). Our key metric for operating-related cash
flow is cash flow before funded pension


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

and long-term VEBA contributions and tax refunds.
This metric best represents the ability of our Automotive
operations to generate cash. We believe the cash flow analysis
reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow
statement presented in accordance with GAAP, is useful to
investors because it includes cash flow elements that we
consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g.,
capital spending) that are not included in

Cash flows from
operating activities before securities trading

, the most
directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last
three years are summarized below (in billions):

Total 2004 operating-related cash flows before
funded pension plan and long-term VEBA contributions and tax
refunds were $1.0 billion positive. Other operating-related
changes, primarily timing differences between expense or revenue
recognition and the corresponding cash payments for costs such
as health care, pension, marketing, and warranty, offset
partially by higher year-end inventory, contributed about
$900 million in 2004. The $1.1 billion decrease in
capital expenditures in 2004 from 2003, primarily reflected the
high level of North American spending in 2003 for new product
launches consistent with our product-led revitalization plan.

Including funded pension plan and long-term VEBA
contributions and tax refunds, operating-related cash flows were
an outflow of $3.7 billion. Contributions to our worldwide
funded pension plans totaled $2.2 billion in 2004, compared
to approximately $2.8 billion in 2003. In 2004, we also
contributed $2.8 billion to a long-term VEBA used to
pre-fund a portion of Ford’s other postretirement benefits
liability. We made no contributions to our short-term VEBA in
2004 which we include in gross cash. The $4.1 billion of
short-term VEBA assets are invested in a manner similar to our
cash portfolio and are available to fund certain employee
benefit obligations in the near term. The $5.2 billion of
long-term VEBA assets are invested in a manner similar to our
pension fund assets. The assets of the long-term VEBA are not
included in gross cash, but are dedicated to pay longer-term
healthcare


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

obligations. See Note 22 of the Notes to the
Financial Statements for plans to contribute to funded pension
plans and VEBA.

Capital transactions with the Financial Services
sector of $4.2 billion in 2004 reflected primarily
dividends paid by Ford Credit. In addition, dividends of about
$200 million from the Financial Services sector in 2004 are
reflected in the table above as divestitures because they
resulted primarily from the sale by the Financial Services
sector of dealership and surplus properties.

Shown in the table below is a reconciliation
between financial statement

Cash flows from operating
activities before securities trading

and operating-related
cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the
last three years (in billions):

Debt and Net Cash.

At December 31, 2004, our Automotive sector had total
senior debt of $13.3 billion compared with
$15.0 billion a year ago. The decrease in debt primarily
reflected the retirement of about $1.5 billion of
relatively high-cost debt through open-market repurchases. Most
of the retired debt had maturity dates between 2028 and 2032.

During 2005, we intend, depending on market
conditions, to continue repurchasing our outstanding debt
securities from time to time and to continue making
contributions to our funded pension plans and VEBA. Such debt
repurchases likely would be concentrated in, but not limited to,
the following four debt issues, of which up to 50% of any one
issue potentially may be purchased: 6 5/8% Debentures due
October 1, 2028 with an original aggregate principal amount
of $1.5 billion; 6 3/8% Debentures due
February 1, 2029 with an original aggregate principal
amount of $1.5 billion; 7.45% Global Landmark Securities
due July 16, 2031 with an original aggregate principal
amount of $4.8 billion; and 8.90% Debentures due
January 15, 2032 with an original aggregate principal
amount of $502 million.

Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II
(“Trust II”) had outstanding $5.0 billion of
trust preferred securities at December 31, 2004. The
dividend and liquidation preference on these securities are paid
from interest and principal payments on our junior subordinated
debentures held by Trust II in a principal amount of
$5.2 billion.

On January 2, 2004, we redeemed our
outstanding junior subordinated debentures held by Ford Motor
Company Capital Trust I. This had the effect of reducing
total Automotive subordinated debt by about $700 million.

At December 31, 2004, our Automotive sector
had net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior and
subordinated debt) of $5.2 billion, compared with
$5.1 billion and $5.4 billion at the end of 2003 and
2002, respectively.

The weighted average maturity of our total
long-term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all
of which is fixed-rate debt, is approximately 25 years with
about $3.7 billion maturing by December 31, 2024. The
weighted average maturity of total debt (long-term and short-term


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

including subordinated debt) is approximately
25 years. For additional information on debt, see
Note 15 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

Seasonal Working Capital
Funding.

In July 2004, we raised
$2.3 billion of short-term (i.e., less than 90 days)
bank loans to finance our annual summer vacation plant shutdown.
The shutdown period normally results in temporary cash outflow
as cash payments to suppliers and dealers continue, but vehicles
are not produced. The short-term seasonal working capital
funding reduced the annual cash volatility that results from our
shutdown period. Similarly, we raised $1.9 billion in
January 2005 to finance our annual holiday shutdown at the end
of 2004.

Credit Facilities.

At December 31, 2004, the Automotive sector had
$7.2 billion of contractually committed credit agreements
with various banks, of which $7.1 billion were available
for use. For further discussion of our committed credit
facilities, see Note 15 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.

Financial Services Sector

Ford Credit

Debt and Cash.

Ford
Credit’s total debt was $144.3 billion at
December 31, 2004, down $5.4 billion compared with a
year ago, primarily reflecting lower funding requirements due to
lower asset levels. Ford Credit’s outstanding unsecured
commercial paper at December 31, 2004 totaled
$8.9 billion, up $2.8 billion compared with a year ago
and up approximately $700 million compared with year-end
2002, primarily reflecting increased investor demand.

At December 31, 2004, Ford Credit had cash
and cash equivalents of $12.7 billion. In the normal course
of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more
proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs.
These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid
investments, which provide liquidity for Ford Credit’s
short-term funding obligations and give Ford Credit flexibility
in the use of its other funding programs.

Funding.

Ford Credit
requires substantial funding in the normal course of business.
Ford Credit’s funding requirements are driven mainly by the
need to (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and
vehicle leases to support the sale of Ford products, which are
influenced by Ford-sponsored special financing and leasing
programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit,
(ii) provide vehicle inventory and capital financing for
Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations.

Ford Credit’s funding sources include debt
issuances, sales of receivables in securitizations and other
structured financings, and bank borrowings. Debt issuance
consists of short- and long-term unsecured debt, placed directly
by Ford Credit or through securities dealers or underwriters in
the United States and international capital markets, and reaches
both retail and institutional investors. Ford Credit issues
commercial paper in the United States, Europe, Canada and other
international markets. In addition to its commercial paper
programs, Ford Credit also obtains short-term funding from the
sale of floating rate demand notes, which may be redeemed at any
time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At
December 31, 2004, the principal amount outstanding of such
notes was $7.7 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves
to fund the payment of the demand notes or any other short-term
funding obligation. Ford Credit’s policy is to have
sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused committed
bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper issuer capacity,
securitizable assets, and back-up credit facilities to provide
liquidity for all of its short-term funding obligations.

During 2004, Ford Credit continued to meet a
significant portion of its funding requirements through
securitizations because of the stability of the market for
asset-backed securities, their lower relative costs given our
credit ratings (as described below), and the diversity of
funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both on-
and off-balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

percent of total managed receivables was as
follows as of the end of each of the last three years:
2004 — 24%, 2003 — 25%, 2002 — 28%.

The following table illustrates Ford
Credit’s term public funding issuances for 2003 and 2004
and its planned issuances for 2005 (in billions):

*

Reflects new issuance and includes funding from
    discontinued operations in 2004 and 2003; excludes whole-loan
    sales, and other structured financings.

The cost of both debt and funding in
securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark
interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury
securities of similar maturities. Over the last two years, on an
indicative basis, spreads on Ford Credit’s securitized
funding have fluctuated between 35 and 63 basis points
above 3-year U.S. Treasury securities, while Ford
Credit’s unsecured long-term debt funding spreads have
fluctuated between 124 and 638 basis points above
comparable U.S. Treasury securities. In 2004, on an
indicative basis, Ford Credit’s unsecured term-debt spreads
fluctuated between 124 and 205 basis points above 3-year
U.S. Treasury securities, with an average spread of
162 basis points and a year-end spread of 165 basis
points above comparable U.S. Treasury securities.

During 2002, Ford Credit began a program to sell
retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it
retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold assets.
These transactions, referred to as “whole-loan sale
transactions,” provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to
reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to
support those receivables. Total outstanding receivables sold in
whole-loan sale transactions at December 31, 2004 were
$4.0 billion.

As a result of lower credit ratings over the last
three years, Ford Credit focused its efforts on further
diversification of funding sources and reduced its reliance on
short-term funding, especially unsecured commercial paper. Ford
Credit launched new asset-backed commercial paper and retail
unsecured bond programs, and it expanded its securitization and
other structured financing channels, including transactions by
foreign affiliates and expansion of its bank-sponsored
asset-backed commercial paper issuers program. As Ford
Credit’s short-term credit ratings have declined,
asset-backed commercial paper programs have become more
cost-effective compared with unsecured commercial paper, and
allow Ford Credit access to a larger investor base. As a result
of Ford Credit’s funding strategy and the reduction in its
managed receivables, lower credit ratings during the past three
years have not had a material impact on Ford Credit’s
ability to fund its operations. Any further lowering of its
credit ratings may increase Ford Credit’s borrowing costs
and potentially constrain its funding sources. This could cause
Ford Credit to increase its use of securitization or other
sources of liquidity or to reduce the amount of receivables it
could purchase, thereby potentially adversely affecting its
ability to support the sale of Ford vehicles.

For additional funding and to maintain liquidity,
Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries, including FCE,
have contractually committed credit facilities with financial
institutions that totaled approximately $7.5 billion at
December 31, 2004. This includes $4.3 billion of Ford
Credit facilities ($3.9 billion global and approximately
$400 million non-global) and $3.2 billion of FCE
facilities ($3.0 billion global and approximately
$200 million non-global). Approximately $800 million
of the


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

total facilities were in use at December 31,
2004. Additionally, at December 31, 2004, banks provided
$18.0 billion of contractually committed liquidity
facilities supporting two asset-backed commercial paper programs
established by Ford Credit. Ford Credit also has entered into
agreements with a number of bank-sponsored asset-backed
commercial paper issuers under which such issuers are
contractually committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford
Credit’s option, up to $14.3 billion of receivables in
the aggregate at December 31, 2004. For further discussion
of these facilities and agreements, see Note 15 of the
Notes to the Financial Statements.

Leverage.

Ford
Credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make
various business decisions, including establishing pricing for
retail, wholesale and lease financing, and assessing its capital
structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage on a financial
statement basis and on a managed basis using the following
formulas:

The following table illustrates the calculation
of Ford Credit’s financial statement leverage (in billions,
except for ratios):

The following table illustrates the calculation
of Ford Credit’s managed leverage (in billions, except for
ratios):

Ford Credit believes that managed leverage, which
is the result of adjustments to its financial statement
leverage, is useful to its investors because it reflects the way
Ford Credit manages its


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

business. Ford Credit retains interests in
receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization
transactions, and with respect to subordinated retained
interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit
considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and
evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed
as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts
cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to
excess debt beyond the amount required to support its
operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests
to its financial statement equity, because all of the debt of
such consolidated entities is included in its total debt.
SFAS No. 133 requires Ford Credit to make fair value
adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect
the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in
connection with its term debt issuances and securitizations.
SFAS No. 133 adjustments vary over the term of the
underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on
changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays
its debt funding obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford
Credit excludes the impact of SFAS No. 133 on both the
numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim
effects of changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the
managed leverage measure provides Ford Credit’s investors
with meaningful information regarding management’s
decision-making processes.

Ford Credit’s managed leverage strategy
involves establishing a leverage level that it believes reflects
the risk characteristics of its underlying assets. In
establishing a target leverage level, Ford Credit considers the
characteristics of the receivables in its managed portfolio and
the prevailing market conditions.

At December 31, 2004, Ford Credit’s
managed leverage was 13.7 to 1, compared with
13.0 to 1 a year ago. Ford Credit’s dividend
policy is based in part on its strategy to maintain managed
leverage at the lower end of the 13-14 to 1 range.
Based on profitability and managed receivable levels, Ford
Credit paid dividends of $4.3 billion in 2004. In the first
quarter of 2005, Ford Credit expects to decrease its managed
leverage to the lower end of its target range, and remain at the
low end of the range throughout the year.

Hertz

Hertz requires funding for the acquisition of
revenue earning equipment, which consists of vehicles and
industrial and construction equipment. Hertz purchases this
equipment in accordance with the terms of agreements negotiated
with automobile and equipment manufacturers. The financing
requirements of Hertz are seasonal and are mainly explained by
the seasonality of the travel industry. Hertz’ fleet size,
and its related financing requirements, generally peak in the
summer months, and decline during the winter months.

Hertz maintains unsecured domestic and foreign
commercial paper programs and a secured domestic commercial
paper program to cover short-term funding needs, and also draws
from bank lines, as a normal business practice, to fund
international needs. Hertz also is active in the domestic
secured and unsecured medium-term and long-term debt markets and
in the unsecured international medium-term debt market.

Hertz has an asset-backed securitization
(“ABS”) program for its domestic car rental fleet to
reduce its borrowing costs and enhance its financing
flexibility. As of December 31, 2004, $898 million was
outstanding under the ABS program consisting of
$298 million of commercial paper and $600 million of
medium-term notes.

At December 31, 2004, Hertz had committed
credit facilities totaling $2.8 billion. Of this amount,
$1.3 billion represented global and other committed credit
facilities ($708 million of which are available through
June 30, 2009 and $560 million of which have various
maturities of up to four years); $500 million consisted of
a revolving credit line provided by Ford, which currently
expires in


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

June 2006; $215 million consisted of
asset-backed letters of credit, and $814 million consisted
of 364-day asset-backed commercial paper facilities.

Total Company

Stockholders’
Equity.

Our stockholders’ equity
was $16 billion at December 31, 2004, up
$4.4 billion compared with December 31, 2003. The
increase primarily reflected net income and foreign currency
translation adjustments, offset partially by dividends and the
change in our minimum pension liability. For additional
discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments, see
Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

Pension.

We sponsor
defined benefit pension plans for our employees in many
countries. Pursuant to our collective bargaining agreement with
the UAW, under which most of our U.S. hourly employees are
covered, we are contractually committed to provide specified
levels of pension benefits to retirees covered by the contract.
These obligations give rise to significant expenses that are
highly dependent on assumptions discussed in Note 22 of the
Notes to our Financial Statements and under “Critical
Accounting Estimates” below.

Included in our Stockholders’ Equity was a
$4 billion adjustment for our worldwide minimum pension
liability as of December 31, 2004. This was about
$500 million greater than the 2003 adjustment, due to the
decline in the funded status of our worldwide pension plans
(i.e., the amount by which the present value of projected
benefit obligations exceeded the market value of pension plan
assets) as of December 31, 2004, compared with
December 31, 2003. The primary factor that contributed to
the decline in the funded status was the decrease in discount
rates at December 31, 2004 used to calculate the present
value of benefit obligations compared with the prior year,
partially offset by the actual return on plan assets for 2004 in
excess of the expected asset return.

Credit Ratings.

Our
short- and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating
agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations (“NRSROs”) by the Securities and
Exchange Commission:

In several markets, locally recognized rating
agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by
the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular
securities we issue, based on information provided by us and
other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy,
sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each
rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company
risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently
for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in
higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets.
The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a
reflection of the rating agencies’ concerns regarding our
automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share,
excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising
healthcare costs.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

The following chart summarizes
Ford’s

(a)

credit ratings and the outlook
assigned by the NRSROs since 2002:

The ratings and trend assigned to Ford and Ford
Credit by DBRS have been in effect since April 2003 and were
confirmed by DBRS in October 2004. DBRS changed the trend of the
long-term rating for Hertz to Stable from Negative and confirmed
the ratings in July 2004. Fitch changed Ford’s rating
outlook to Stable from Negative in May 2004, and the outlook was
affirmed by Fitch in October 2004. The ratings assigned by Fitch
have been in effect since January 2002 and were affirmed by
Fitch in October 2004. The ratings and outlook assigned by
Moody’s have been in effect since January 2002 and were
affirmed by Moody’s in October 2004. The ratings and
outlook assigned by S&P have been in effect since November
2003 and were affirmed by S&P in October 2004.

OUTLOOK

We have set and communicated certain planning
assumptions, operational metrics and financial milestones for
2005, shown below:

*

At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding
    special items and discontinued operations.

Our projection of first quarter 2005 production
is as follows:

Our current projection of second quarter 2005
production for Ford North America is 940,000 vehicles (290,000
cars and 650,000 trucks). In the second quarter of 2004, Ford
North America produced 951,000 vehicles (252,000 cars and
699,000 trucks).

On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed
into law

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

(the
“Act”). The most significant component of the Act was
the repeal of the extraterritorial income (“ETI”)
exclusion and the replacement of ETI with a domestic deduction
for a range of broadly


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

defined domestic production activities. The Act
also provides for a one-year period to repatriate certain
foreign earnings at a special tax rate. We continue to evaluate
the application of the repatriation provisions. If we determine
that we will repatriate earnings pursuant to these provisions, a
favorable earnings impact would result. We expect to make a
determination about the applicability of the repatriation
provisions in the last quarter of 2005. The other provisions of
the Act are not expected to have a material impact on future
earnings. We expect our 2005 full-year effective tax rate to be
between 25% and 28%, excluding any potential effect of the
repatriation-of-foreign-earnings provisions of the Act.

As disclosed in our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, we
have been in discussions with Visteon regarding changes to
improve the efficiency and operating results of both companies,
and these discussions are ongoing. Actions that may result from
these discussions could include modifications to our existing
commercial arrangements with Visteon, including modifications
with respect to Visteon’s present obligation to reimburse
us for the costs of the approximately 17,700 Ford employees
assigned to Visteon. These modifications likely would result in
a significant charge to earnings in the period in which they
occur, but would not be expected to have a material adverse
impact on future ongoing results of operations.

In order that Visteon continues to supply certain
components without cost surcharges to us, on March 10,
2005, we agreed to provide Visteon with the following financial
assistance at least through the end of 2005:

•

relieving Visteon of a portion (about
    $25 million per month) of its obligation to reimburse us
    for the costs of our employees assigned to Visteon (e.g., wage
    costs);

•

reducing by about one-fourth the number of days
    within which we are required to make payment to Visteon for
    materials and components that we purchase from Visteon; and

•

acquiring up to about $150 million of new
    machinery and equipment for use by Visteon necessary for its
    production of components for us.

Any broader agreement that might result from our
ongoing discussions with Visteon could substantially modify this
and any other existing Visteon agreements.

Our earnings per share guidance and outlook for
pre-tax profits excluding special items by business unit, sector
and total company remain unchanged from that disclosed in our
Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 25, 2005.

Risk Factors

Statements included or incorporated by reference
herein may constitute “forward looking statements”
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks,
uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those stated, including, without
limitation:


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

•

the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in
    delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased
    warranty costs;

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We consider an accounting estimate to be critical
if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make
assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time
the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the
estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to
period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could
have used in the current period, would have a material impact on
our financial condition or results of operations.

Management has discussed the development and
selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit
Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has
reviewed the foregoing disclosure. In addition, there are other
items within our financial statements that require estimation,
but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in
estimates used in these and other items could have a material
impact on our financial statements.

Warranty and Additional Service
Actions

Nature of Estimates
Required.

The estimated warranty and
additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at
the time of sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each
vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where
little or no claims experience may exist. In addition, the
number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to
be approved, and policies related to additional service actions,
are taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty and
potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our
assumptions could materially affect net income.

Assumptions and Approach
Used.

Our estimate of warranty and
additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a
quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any
given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies
upon long-term historical averages until sufficient data are
available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to
modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is
within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then
compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals
are adequate to meet expected future obligations.

See Note 26 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions
for warranties and additional service actions.

Pensions

Nature of Estimates
Required.

The measurement of our
pension obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a
variety of assumptions used by our actuaries. These assumptions
include estimates of the present value of projected future
pension payments to all plan participants, taking into
consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as
salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions
may have an effect on the amount and timing of future
contributions. The plan trustee conducts an independent
valuation of the fair value of pension plan assets.

Assumptions and Approach
Used.

The assumptions used in
developing the required estimates include the following key
factors:

We base the discount rate assumption on
investment yields available at year-end on long-term bonds rated
Aa- or better. In the United States we use the Moody’s
Aa long-term bond yield as the initial indicator of these
yields. We also consider the yield derived from matching
projected pension payments with maturities of a portfolio of
available bonds rated Aa- or better. Our inflation assumption is
based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary
growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, the
near-term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on
plan assets assumption reflects various long-run inputs,
including historical plan returns and peer data, as well as
inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for
capital market returns, inflation and other variables, adjusted
for specific aspects of our strategy. The expected amount and
timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum
requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability
and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) penalty
premiums and tax efficiency). Retirement and mortality rates are
developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. Plan
obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan
provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future
changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are
presently committed (e.g., in labor contracts). The effects of
actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of
changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and
losses. Unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future
periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense
in future periods.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions
for employee retirement benefits.

Sensitivity
Analysis.

The December 31, 2004
funded status of our pension plans is affected by
December 31, 2004 assumptions. Pension expense for 2004 is
based on the plan design and assumptions as of December 31,
2003. Note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are
specific to 2004. They also may not be additive, so the impact
of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated
by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The effect of
the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown
below (in millions).

The foregoing indicates that changes in the
discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect
on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders’
equity and expense. As stated above, we base the discount rate
assumption on investment yields available at year-end on
long-term bonds rated Aa- or better. We cannot predict these
bond yields or investment returns and, therefore, cannot
reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our
stockholders’ equity for minimum pension liability in
subsequent years will be significant.

Other Postretirement Benefits (Retiree Health
Care and Life Insurance)

Nature of Estimates
Required.

The measurement of our
obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other
postretirement benefits (i.e., retiree health care and life
insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present
value of the projected future payments to all participants,
taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future
events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and
demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount
and timing of future payments.

Assumptions and Approach
Used.

The assumptions used in
developing the required estimates include the following key
factors:

Our health care cost trend assumptions are
developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook,
efficiencies and other cost-mitigation actions (including
eligibility management, employee education and wellness,
competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and
an assessment of likely long-term trends. We base the discount
rate assumption on investment yields available at year-end on
corporate long-term bonds rated Aa- or better. We use the
Moody’s Aa long-term bond yield as the initial indicator of
these yields. We also consider the yield derived from matching
projected other postretirement benefit payments with maturities
of a portfolio of available bonds rated Aa- or better. The
salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual
experience, the near-term outlook and assumed inflation. The
expected return on plan assets assumption reflects various
long-run inputs, including historical plan returns and peer
data, as well as inputs from a range of internal and external
advisors for capital market returns, inflation and other
variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our strategy. The
expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an
assessment of cash availability and other considerations (e.g.,
funded


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

status and tax efficiency). Retirement and
mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected
plan experience. Plan obligations and costs are based on
existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made
regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions
beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in labor
contracts). The effects of actual results differing from our
assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included
in unamortized net gains and losses. Unamortized gains and
losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore,
generally affect our recognized expense in future periods.

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions
for other postretirement benefits.

Sensitivity
Analysis.

The December 31, 2004
postretirement benefits obligation is affected by
December 31, 2004 assumptions. Postretirement benefit
expense for 2004 is based on the plan design and assumptions as
of December 31, 2003. Note that these sensitivities may be
asymmetric, and are specific to 2004. They are not additive, so
the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be
calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The
effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected
assumptions is shown below (in millions):

Allowance for Credit Losses —
Financial Services Sector

The allowance for credit losses is our estimate
of credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and
operating leases as of the date of the financial statements. We
monitor credit loss performance monthly and we assess the
adequacy of our allowance for credit losses quarterly. Because
credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating
credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters
that are uncertain.

Nature of Estimates
Required.

We estimate the credit
losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating
leases by evaluating several factors including historical credit
loss trends, the credit quality of our present portfolio, trends
in historical and projected used vehicle values and general
economic measures.

Assumptions and Approach
Used.

We make projections of two key
assumptions:

•

Frequency

—
    the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts
    that we expect to default over a period of time, measured as
    repossessions; and

•

Loss
    severity

— the expected
    difference between the amount a customer owes us when we
    charge-off the finance contract and the amount we receive, net
    of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any
    recoveries from the customer.

We use these assumptions to assist us in setting
our allowance for credit losses. See Note 13 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements for more information regarding our
allowance for credit losses.

Sensitivity
Analysis.

We believe the present level
of our allowance for credit losses adequately reflects credit
losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating
leases. However, changes in the assumptions used to derive
frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit
losses. Over the past twenty years, repossession rates for
our Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand U.S. retail and lease
portfolio have varied between 2% and 4%.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

The effect of the indicated increase/ decrease in
the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury
brand vehicles in the U.S. (in millions):

Changes in our assumptions affect

Provision
for credit losses

on our income statement and the

Allowance for credit and insurance losses

on our balance
sheet.

Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject
to Operating Leases — Financial Services
Sector

Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to
operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our
operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value
to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term.

We monitor residual values each month, and we
review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a
quarterly basis. If we believe that the expected residual values
for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure
that our net investment in the operating leases (equal to our
acquisition value of the vehicles minus accumulated
depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate
of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term.
Such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a
change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to
operating leases and are recorded on a straight-line basis.

Each lease customer has the option to buy the
leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle
to the dealer. If the customer returns the vehicle to the
dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to
us. Over the last three years, about 60% to 70% of Ford
Credit’s North America operating lease vehicles have been
returned to us.

Nature of Estimates
Required.

Each operating lease in our
portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a
customer. At the time we purchase a lease, we establish an
expected residual value for the vehicle. We estimate the
expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values,
historical return rates for our leased vehicles, industry-wide
used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality
data.

Assumptions and Approach
Used.

Our accumulated depreciation on
vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions
of:

•

Auction
    value

— the market value of
    the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and

•

Return
    rates

— the percentage of
    vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end.

See Note 11 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for more information regarding accumulated
depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases.

Sensitivity
Analysis.

For returned vehicles, we
face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at
auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual
value for the vehicle. At year-end 2004, if future auction
values for Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles in the
U.S. with 24 to 36 month operating lease terms were to
decrease by one percent from our present estimates, the impact
would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about
$45 million. Similarly, if return rates for our existing
portfolio of 24 to 36 month term Ford, Lincoln and Mercury
brand vehicles in the U.S. were to increase by one
percentage point from our present estimates, the impact would be
to increase our depreciation on these vehicles by about
$5 million. These increases


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

in depreciation would be charged to depreciation
expense during the 2005 through 2007 period so that the net
investment in operating leases at the end of the lease term for
these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value.
Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on
operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet as

Net investment in operating leases

and on the income
statement in

Depreciation,

in each case under the
Financial Services sector.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET
ADOPTED

In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 123,

Accounting for Stock — Based
Compensation.

This statement establishes standards for the
accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its
equity instruments for goods or services. This statement
requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee
services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments
based on the grant-date fair value of the award. In addition,
this statement amends SFAS No. 95,

Statement of
Cash Flows,

to require that excess tax benefits be reported
as a financing cash inflow rather than a reduction of taxes
paid. Effective January  1, 2003, we adopted the fair
value recognition provision of SFAS No. 123 under a
modified prospective method to all unvested employee awards as
of January 1, 2003 and all new awards granted to employees
after January 1, 2003 and forward. Although we are
assessing its impact, we do not expect adoption of this revision
to the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

In November 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 151,

Inventory Costs — an
amendment of ARB No. 43, Inventory Pricing,

to clarify
the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted material. ARB
No. 43 stated that the above-mentioned items under
some circumstances are so abnormal that they require treatment
as current period charges. SFAS No. 151 requires that
items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double
freight, and handling costs, be treated as current —
period charges, regardless of whether they meet the criterion of
“so abnormal.” We have applied ARB No. 43
consistent with SFAS No. 151 and we do not expect any
impact on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 153,

Accounting for Nonmonetary
Assets — an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.

APB No. 29 required that exchanges of nonmonetary assets
should be measured based on the fair value of the assets
exchanged, with the exception for exchange of similar productive
assets which should be measured based on the recorded amount.
The SFAS No. 153 requires the exchange of nonmonetary
assets to be measured on fair value with the exception of
exchanges for such assets which lack commercial substance, the
fair value is not determinable or an exchange transaction that
facilitates sales to customers. We have adopted
SFAS No. 153 and will apply on a prospective basis.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have entered into various arrangements not
reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably
likely to have a current or future effect on our financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. These
include guarantees, sales of receivables by Ford Credit, and
variable interest entities, each of which is discussed below.

Guarantees

See Note 26 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for a discussion of our guarantees.

Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit

Securitization.

Ford
Credit regularly uses securitization to fund its operations.
Ford Credit securitizes its receivables because the highly
liquid and efficient market for securitization of financial


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

assets provides it with a lower cost source of
funding, compared with unsecured debt given its present credit
ratings, diversifies its funding among different markets and
investors, and provides additional liquidity. In a typical
securitization transaction, Ford Credit sells a pool of finance
receivables to a wholly owned, bankruptcy-remote, special
purpose subsidiary that establishes an SPE, usually a trust, and
transfers the receivables to the SPE in exchange for proceeds
from interest-bearing securities, commonly called asset-backed
securities, that are issued by the SPE and are secured by future
collections on the sold receivables. Following the transfer of
the sold receivables to the SPE, and if in compliance with
SFAS No. 140 (discussed below), the receivables are no
longer assets of Ford Credit and the sold receivables no longer
appear on its balance sheet. The securities issued by the SPE
are structured into senior and subordinated classes. The senior
classes have priority over the subordinated classes in receiving
collections from the sold receivables and may also benefit from
other enhancements such as over-collateralization and cash
reserve funds. These securities generally are rated by
independent rating agencies and sold in public offerings or in
private transactions.

The following flow chart diagrams Ford
Credit’s typical U.S. retail securitization
transaction:

Consistent with conventional practices in the
securitization industry, Ford Credit uses SPEs in securitization
transactions to achieve isolation of the sold receivables for
the benefit of securitization investors. Some of the SPEs used
in Ford Credit’s securitization transactions are classified
as qualifying special purpose entities consistent with the
requirements of SFAS No. 140,

Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities,

because of the nature of the assets held by
these entities and the limited nature of their activities. When
these accounting rules are met, the sold receivables are removed
from its balance sheet. The use of SPEs in the typical
securitization structure, along with the use of various forms of
credit and payment enhancements to reduce the risk of loss,
allows the SPE to issue senior asset-backed securities that
generally receive the highest short-term credit ratings and
among the highest long-term credit ratings, thereby providing
Ford Credit with a cost-effective source of funding.

Ford Credit selects receivables at random for
securitization transactions using selection criteria designed
for the specific transaction. The selection criteria are
generally based on factors such as location of the obligor,
contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing
program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the
criteria also require receivables to be active and in good
standing.

Ford Credit retains interests in the securitized
receivables. The retained interests may include senior and
subordinated securities issued by the SPE, undivided interests
in wholesale receivables, restricted cash held for the benefit
of the SPEs (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests
in securitization transactions. Income from residual interest in
securitization transactions represents the right to receive
collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts
needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors,
servicing fees and other required payments. Ford Credit retains
credit risk in securitizations. Ford Credit’s retained
interests include the most subordinated interests in the SPE,
which are the first to absorb credit losses on the sold
receivables. The impact of credit losses in the pool of sold
receivables will likely be limited to Ford Credit’s
retained interests because securitizations are structured to
protect the holders of the senior asset-backed securities.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total
outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit
in securitizations was $35.6 billion and
$46.9 billion, respectively. This decrease primarily
reflected lower funding requirements. At December 31, 2004
and 2003, Ford Credit’s retained interests in such sold
receivables were $9.2 billion and $12.6 billion,
respectively.

Ford Credit generally has no obligation to
repurchase or replace any receivable sold to an SPE that
subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in
default. Investors holding securities issued by a SPE have no
recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses on
the sold receivables and have no right to require it to
repurchase the securities. Ford Credit does not guarantee any
asset-backed securities and has no obligation to provide
liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of
additional receivables to its SPEs either due to the performance
of the sold receivables or the credit rating of its short-term
or long-term debt. However, as the seller and servicer of the
finance receivables to the SPE, Ford Credit is obligated to
provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which
are customary in the securitization industry. These obligations
consist of indemnifications, receivable repurchase obligations
on receivables that do not meet eligibility criteria or that
have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional
receivables in revolving transactions, and servicer advances.

Risks to Future Sales of
Receivables.

Some of Ford
Credit’s securitization programs contain structural
features that could prevent further funding from these sources
if:

Ford Credit does not expect that any of these
features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to
securitize receivables. In addition, Ford Credit’s ability
to sell its receivables may be affected by the following
factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available
to sell, the performance of receivables sold in previous
transactions, general demand for the type of receivables Ford
Credit offers, market capacity for Ford Credit-sponsored
investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford
Credit’s credit ratings and Ford Credit’s ability to
maintain back-up liquidity facilities for certain securitization
programs. If as a result of any of these or other factors, the
cost of securitized funding significantly increased or
securitized funding were no longer available to Ford Credit,
Ford Credit’s operations, financial condition and liquidity
would be adversely impacted.

Variable Interest Entities

See Note 16 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements for a discussion of our variable interest entities.

AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We are party to many contractual obligations
involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of
these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services
sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices,
we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain
raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may
contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We
enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of
these materials and services. “Purchase obligations”
are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or
services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company
and that specify all significant terms.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

The “Other liabilities” category
includes only liabilities on our balance sheet that have a
definite pay-out scheme or are not contingent on a subsequent
event. Other liabilities at December 31, 2004 represent a
payment obligation related to our acquisition of Land Rover in
2000.

The table below summarizes our contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2004 (in millions):

*

Principal obligation only.

For additional information to our long-term debt
and operating lease obligations, see Notes 15 and 26 of the
Notes to the Financial Statements.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

OVERVIEW

We are exposed to a variety of market and other
risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as
risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and
specific asset risks.

These risks affect our Automotive and Financial
Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these
exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management
program, which includes regular reports to a central management
committee, the Global Risk Management Committee
(“GRMC”). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial
Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller,
and other members of senior management.

Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are
exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to
curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and
future financial obligations as they come due because funding
sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and
particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of
our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of
funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or
business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, our funding sources include
commercial paper, term debt, sales of receivables through
securitization transactions, committed lines of credit from
major banks, and other sources.

We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks,
such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and
employee injury. We protect against these risks through a
combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial
insurance designed to protect against events that could generate
significant losses.

Direct responsibility for the execution of our
market risk management strategies resides with our
Treasurer’s Office and is governed by written polices and
procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the
development and authorization of derivative trades, the
transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows.
Regular audits are conducted to ensure that


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

appropriate controls are in place and that they
remain effective. In addition, our market risk exposures and our
use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the
GRMC, and the Audit and Finance Committees of our Board of
Directors.

In accordance with corporate risk management
policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward
contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain
exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates).
Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we
do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In
certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in
unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net
income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for
hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of
inter-company loans and dividends and certain transactions that
use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on
our derivatives, see Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements.

The market and counterparty risks of our
Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified
below.

AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY
RISK

Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures
and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the
following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and
production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends,
and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and
receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also
are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our
Automotive sector and changes in interest rates.

Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are
measured and quantified using a model to calculate the changes
in the value of currency and commodity derivative instruments
along with the underlying cash flow exposures being hedged. Our
earnings at risk (“EaR”) methodology is based on
transaction exposure, which is the exposure that results from
specific transactions and our related hedging activity. The
methodology does not attempt to assess the impact on financial
statement earnings resulting from non-cash flow risks (e.g.,
re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets or
liabilities through income). EaR at a 95% confidence level is
the methodology used to calculate the potential impact to
pre-tax earnings related to cash flows in foreign currency and
commodity price exposure. The EaR model is used as an
estimation of risk and a management tool, but will not
necessarily represent actual changes in earnings based on the
combination of hedging and underlying exposures. The calculation
of EaR combines current market data with historical data on
volatilities and correlations of the underlying currencies or
commodity prices. This creates hypothetical prices based on the
calculation of historical volatilities; therefore, the
EaR model may not accurately predict future market risk.
The EaR methodology includes our hedging actions as well as
the underlying exposures over a twelve-month period.

Foreign Currency
Risk.

Foreign currency risk is the
possibility that our financial results could be better or worse
than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. Accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our
economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs,
assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm
commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging
actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by
corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward
contracts and options).

At December 31, 2004, the EaR from foreign
currency exchange movements over the next twelve months is
projected at $360 million, within a 95% confidence level
for the unhedged exposure. When calculated at the end of each
quarter throughout the year, the high was $465 million, the
low was $235 million and the average was $340 million;
the risks impacting financial instruments are offset with
underlying exposure being hedged. The 2004 year-end


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

projection is approximately $10 million
higher than the EaR projection for 2004 calculated as of
December 31, 2003. The increased exposure results primarily
from changes in the unhedged portfolio. The effect of currency
movements on business units will vary based on the currency
profile of the business unit (including any hedging actions
taken). It can also be affected by competitive responses to
currency changes.

Commodity Price
Risk.

Commodity price risk is the
possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the
prices of commodities, such as non-ferrous metals (e.g.,
aluminum) and precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals
(e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and
electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which
we use in the production of motor vehicles.

We use derivative instruments to hedge the price
risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we
can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals, precious
metals and energies). In our hedging actions, we primarily use
instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity
price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps,
and options). Based on our financial hedging activities with
derivatives and the associated underlying commodities exposures
at December 31, 2004, the EaR from commodity price
movements over the next twelve months is projected at
$147 million, within a 95% confidence level (when
calculated at the end of each quarter throughout the year, the
high was $147 million, the low was $97 million and the
average was $115 million); the risks impacting financial
instruments are offset with underlying exposure being hedged.
The year-end level is approximately $57 million higher than
the EaR projection for 2004 calculated as of December 31,
2003. The increased exposure results primarily from higher
commodity prices and hedging levels consistent with our overall
hedging strategy.

In addition, our purchasing organization (with
the oversight of the GRMC) negotiates contracts to ensure
continuous supply of raw materials. In some cases, these
contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices
and as such, play a role in managing price risk.

Interest Rate Risk.

Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in
our Automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest
rates. Our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment
portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, marketable and
loaned securities and short-term VEBA assets. At
December 31, 2004, we had $23.6 billion in our
automotive investment portfolio, compared to $25.9 billion
at December 31, 2003. We invest the portfolio in securities
of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject
to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are
generally classified as either trading or available-for-sale.
The trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized)
are reported in the income statement. The available-for-sale
portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income
statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity in other
comprehensive income. The investment strategy is based on
clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain
liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the
short-term investment.

At any time, a rise in interest rates could have
a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and
available-for-sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2004, the
value of our trading portfolio was $19.6 billion, which is
$4.6 billion lower than December 31, 2003. The value
of our available-for-sale portfolio was $4.0 billion, which
is $2.3 billion higher than December 31, 2003.

Assuming a hypothetical increase in interest
rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and
available-for-sale portfolios would be reduced by
$88 million and $45 million, respectively. This
compares to $206 million and $29 million,
respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2003. The
decrease in reported exposure is the result of using actual
portfolio durations instead of long-term targets. Portfolio
durations have been reduced below long-term targets to help
shield the portfolios from the possible adverse impact of an
increase in interest rates.


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

Using the actual duration of our trading and
available-for-sale portfolios as of December 31, 2003, the
value of these portfolios would have been reduced by
$114 million and $25 million, respectively, by a
hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point.
While these are our best estimates of the impact of the
specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ
from those projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes
interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the
yield curve. In reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude
are rarely instantaneous or parallel.

Counterparty Risk.

Counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an
obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a
derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with
counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order
to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to investments
in fixed-income instruments and derivative contracts used for
managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and
commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish
exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and
provide counterparty diversification. Our exposures are
monitored on a regular basis and are included in monthly
reporting to the Treasurer.

Our approach to managing counterparty risk is
forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk
mitigation actions. We establish exposure limits for both
mark-to-market and future potential exposure, based on our
overall risk tolerance and ratings-based historical default
probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower-rated
counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. We use a Monte
Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by
tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level.

Substantially all of our counterparty and obligor
exposures are with counterparties and obligors that are rated
single-A or better.

FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS

Overview.

Ford
Credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of
its business activities. In addition to counterparty risk
discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following
additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess,
monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and
procedures:

Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the
context of its contribution to Ford Credit’s overall global
risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis
and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and
residual risks are discussed above in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” under the caption “Critical Accounting
Estimates” and liquidity risk is discussed above in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption
“Liquidity and


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

Capital Resources — Financial Services
Sector — Ford Credit”. A discussion of Ford
Credit’s market risks is included below.

Foreign Currency
Risk.

To meet funding objectives, Ford
Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws
on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit
faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch
exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency
of the debt funding those receivables. When possible,
receivables are funded with debt in the same currency,
minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. When a different
currency is used, Ford Credit seeks to minimize the impact of
currency exchange rates on operating results by executing
foreign currency derivatives. These derivatives convert
substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to
the local country currency of the receivables. As a result, Ford
Credit’s market risk exposure relating to currency exchange
rates is believed to be immaterial.

Interest Rate Risk.

Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford
Credit is exposed and consists principally of “re-pricing
risk” or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of
assets and liabilities. An instrument’s re-pricing period
is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an
interest rate-sensitive instrument responds to changes in
interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an
instrument’s interest rate to reflect a change in market
interest rates. For fixed-rate instruments, the re-pricing
period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the
instrument’s principal because, with a fixed interest rate,
the principal is considered to re-price only when re-invested in
a new instrument. For a floating-rate instrument, the re-pricing
period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to
the market rate. For instance, a floating-rate loan whose
interest rate is reset to a market index annually on
December 31st would have a re-pricing period of
one year on January 1st, regardless of the
instrument’s maturity.

Ford Credit’s receivables consist primarily
of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and
floating-rate wholesale receivables. Fixed-rate retail
installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally
with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally
require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life
of the contract. Ford Credit’s funding sources consist
primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and sales of
receivables in securitizations. In the case of unsecured term
debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the
business cycle, Ford Credit may issue debt with five- to
ten-year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of
its assets. These debt instruments are principally fixed-rate
and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of
the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity.

Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to
the extent that a difference exists between the re-pricing
profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without
derivatives, Ford Credit’s assets would re-price more
quickly than its debt.

Ford Credit’s interest rate risk management
objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting
fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit
achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance
range and staying within this tolerance range through an
interest rate risk management program that includes entering
into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps.

On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the
sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest
rate-sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to
hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a
measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows,
discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present
value of interest rate-sensitive assets minus the present value
of interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters
into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its
floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating,
to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls
within an established target range. Ford Credit also monitors
the sensitivity of its earnings to interest rates using pre-tax
net


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

interest income simulation techniques. These
simulations calculate the projected pre-tax net interest income
of its portfolio of interest rate-sensitive assets and
liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including
both parallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve. These
quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to the
Treasurer each month.

The process described above is used to measure
and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credit’s
operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom,
which together represented approximately 80% of its total
on-balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2004.
For its other international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a
technique commonly referred to as “gap analysis,” to
measure re-pricing mismatch. This process uses re-pricing
schedules, which group assets, debt, and swaps into discrete
time bands based on their re-pricing characteristics. Under this
process, Ford Credit enters into interest rate swaps, which
effectively change the re-pricing profile of its debt, to ensure
that any re-pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities)
existing in a particular time band falls within an established
tolerance.

As a result of its interest rate risk management
process, including derivatives, Ford Credit’s debt
re-prices faster than its assets. Other things being equal, this
means that during a period of rising interest rates, the
interest rates paid on Ford Credit’s debt will increase
more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets,
thereby initially reducing Ford Credit’s pre-tax net
interest income. Correspondingly, during a period of falling
interest rates, Ford Credit’s pre-tax net interest income
would be expected to initially increase. To provide a
quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax net
interest income to changes in interest rates, Ford Credit uses
interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical,
instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one
percentage point across all maturities (a “parallel
shift”), as well as a base case that assumes that interest
rates remain constant at existing levels. The differences
between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve-month
period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford
Credit’s pre-tax net interest income. The sensitivity as of
year-end 2004 and 2003 was as follows:

Based on assumptions included in the analysis,
sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in
interest rates was lower at year-end 2004 than at year-end 2003.
This change primarily reflects the results of normal
fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management
strategy. While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford
Credit’s best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed
interest rate scenarios, the model Ford Credit uses for this
analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual
results could differ from those projected. Embedded in the model
Ford Credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of
maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and
predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease
contracts ahead of contractual maturity. Ford Credit’s
repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease
contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical
experience. If interest rates or other factors were to change,
the actual prepayment experience could be different than
projected.

Additionally, interest rate changes of one
percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel,
and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point
assumed in Ford Credit’s analysis. As a result, the actual
impact to pre-tax net interest income could be higher or lower
than the results detailed above. The model used to conduct this
analysis also relies heavily on


Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Continued)

assumptions regarding the reinvestment of
maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and
predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of
contractual maturity.

The fair value of Ford Credit’s net
derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less
derivative liabilities) as reported in Note 19 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements as of December 31, 2004 was
$6.0 billion. This was approximately $2.5 billion
lower than a year ago. This decrease primarily reflects the
maturity of swaps that were significantly in the money and lower
mark-to-market adjustments resulting from interest rate changes.
Increases related to the continued strengthening of foreign
currencies relative to the U.S. dollar were a partial
offset. For additional information on Ford Credit derivatives,
please refer to the “Financial Services Sector” of
Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

Our Financial Statements, the accompanying Notes
to the Financial Statements, the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm, the Financial Statement
Schedules and the Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule that are filed
as part of this Report are listed under Item 15.
“Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” and are
set forth on pages FS-1 through FS-50 and FSS-1 and FSS-2
immediately following the signature pages of this Report.

Selected quarterly financial data for us and our
consolidated subsidiaries for 2004 and 2003 is in Note 25
of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

ITEM 9.

Changes in and
Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and
Procedures

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES

William Clay Ford, Jr., our Chief Executive
Officer, and Donat R. Leclair, our Chief Financial Officer, have
performed an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures, as that term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of December 31,
2004 and each has concluded that such disclosure controls and
procedures are effective to ensure that information required to
be disclosed in our periodic reports filed under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and forms.

MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL
OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Our management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(f). The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.

Under the supervision and with the participation
of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an assessment of
the


Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
(Continued)

effectiveness of its internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. The assessment
was based on criteria established in the framework

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

, issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this assessment, management concluded that
our internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2004. Management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report included
herein.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS

No changes in the Company’s internal
controls over financial reporting occurred during the quarter
ended December 31, 2004 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

Other
Information

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive
Officers of Ford

The information required by Item 10
regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the
information under the captions “Election of
Directors”, “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” and “Management Stock
Ownership” in our Proxy Statement. The information required
by Item 10 regarding our executive officers appears as
Item 4A under Part I of this Report. The information
required by Item 10 regarding an audit committee financial
expert is incorporated by reference from the information under
the caption “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy
Statement The information required by Item 10 regarding the
members of our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Committees of the Board of Directors” in our Proxy
Statement. The information required by Item 10 regarding
our codes of ethics is incorporated by reference from the
information under the caption “Corporate Governance”
in our Proxy Statement. In addition, we have included in
Item 1 to this Report instructions for how to access our
codes of ethics on our website and our Internet address.
Amendments to, and waivers granted under, our Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Personnel, if any, will be posted to our
website as well.

ITEM 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the
following captions in our Proxy Statement: “Compensation of
Directors”, “Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation” “Compensation of
Executive Officers”, “Stock Options”,
“Performance Stock Rights”, “Stock Performance
Graphs” and “Retirement Plans”.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required by Item 12 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the
captions “Stock Options — Equity Compensation
Plan Information” and “Management Stock
Ownership” in our Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions

The information required by Item 13 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in
our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accounting
Fees and Services

The information required by Item 14 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Audit Committee Report” in our Proxy Statement.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules

(a) 1. Financial
Statements — Ford Motor Company and
Subsidiaries

The Sector and Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Notes to the Financial Statements and the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm listed above are
filed as part of this Report and are set forth on pages FS-1
through FS-50 immediately following the signatures pages of this
Report.

(a) 2. Financial Statement
Schedules

Schedule II and the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement
Schedule are filed as part of this Report and are set forth on
pages FSS-1 and FSS-2 immediately following the Notes to
the Financial Statements referred to above. The other schedules
are omitted because either they are not applicable or the
information required to be contained in them is disclosed
elsewhere in our Sector and Consolidated Financial Statements or
the amounts involved are not sufficient to require submission.

(a) 3. Exhibits


Item 15. Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules (Continued)


Item 15. Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules (Continued)


Item 15. Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules (Continued)

*

Incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this
    Report (file number reference 1-3950, unless otherwise
    indicated).

**

Management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

Instruments defining the rights of holders of
certain issues of long-term debt of Ford and of certain
consolidated subsidiaries and of any unconsolidated subsidiary,
for which financial statements are required to be filed with
this Report, have not been filed as exhibits to this Report
because the authorized principal amount of any one of such
issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ford and our
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Ford agrees to furnish a
copy of each of such instruments to the Commission upon request.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ford has duly
caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FORD MOTOR COMPANY

By:

/s/ JAMES C. GOUIN*

(James C. Gouin)

Vice President and Controller

Date: March 10, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of Ford and in the capacities on the
date indicated.



FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-1

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-2

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-3

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-4

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-5

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

(in millions)

We have revised the presentation of our 2003 and
2002 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to conform to our 2004
presentation. (See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial
Statements)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-6

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-7

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. PRINCIPLES OF PRESENTATION
AND CONSOLIDATION

We present our financial statements on two bases:
1) sector basis for Automotive and Financial Services and
2) consolidated basis. We believe the additional
information provided in the sector basis statements enables the
reader to better understand the operating performance, financial
position, cash flow and liquidity of our two very different
businesses.

Our financial statements include consolidated
majority-owned subsidiaries and, beginning July 1, 2003,
consolidated Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”) of
which we are the primary beneficiary. Affiliates that we do not
consolidate, but for which we have significant influence over
operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the
equity method. Described below are accounting policies
applicable to us and our consolidated majority-owned
subsidiaries.

We have reclassified certain prior-year amounts
to conform to current year presentation and certain amounts
previously disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K
dated January 20, 2005 have been revised, including

Revenues

and

Operating and other expense

due to a
reclassification by Hertz.

Transactions Between Automotive and Financial
Services Sectors

Intersector transactions occur in the ordinary
course of business. We formally documented certain long-standing
business practices with Ford Motor Credit Company (“Ford
Credit”), a wholly owned subsidiary, in a 2001 agreement.
Additional details on certain transactions and the effect on
each sector’s balance sheet at December 31 is shown
below (in billions):

Additionally, amounts recorded as revenue by the
Financial Services sector and billed to the Automotive sector
for interest and special financing and leasing programs were
$3.3 billion in 2004, $3.3 billion in 2003, and
$3.5 billion in 2002.

Beginning with our year ended December 31,
2004 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, we have changed our
presentation of cash flows from wholesale finance receivables.
The change stemmed from concerns raised by the staff of the
Securities and Exchange Commission about the previous
presentation. Prior-year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to current year presentation.

FS-8

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 1. PRINCIPLES OF PRESENTATION
AND CONSOLIDATION (Continued)

Wholesale finance receivables are generated by
Ford Credit’s financing of dealer purchases of vehicles.
The vehicles financed are primarily vehicles sold by our
Automotive sector to the dealers. Dealer purchases of our
inventory financed by Ford Credit do not generate cash on a
consolidated basis until settlement of the wholesale receivable
by the dealer. Historically, in the period in which we sold a
vehicle to a dealer and the dealer financed the purchase through
Ford Credit, we had presented the related cash flows as separate
transactions in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The
cash inflow resulting from the sale of inventory was presented
as an operating cash flow. The cash outflow from the origination
by Ford Credit of a wholesale finance receivable was presented
as an investing cash flow.

In our revised presentation, our Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows has been adjusted to reflect the fact
that there was no cash received by the consolidated entity upon
the initial sale of inventory, to reflect the elimination of the
effects of the intercompany transactions and to properly
classify cash receipts from the settlement of Ford Credit’s
wholesale receivables related to the sale of inventory as
operating activities.

The table below reconciles the revised
presentation of our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 to the prior
presentation (in millions):

*

In addition to vehicles sold by us, the cash
    flows from wholesale finance receivables being reclassified from
    investing to operating include financing by Ford Credit of used
    and non-Ford vehicles. 100% of cash flows from wholesale finance
    receivables have been reclassified for consolidated presentation
    as the portion of these cash flows from used and non-Ford
    vehicles are impracticable to separate.

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING
POLICIES

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and all highly liquid investments with a
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase,
including short-term time deposits and government agency and
corporate obligations, are classified as

Cash and cash
equivalents

.

Revenue Recognition — Automotive
Sector

Sales are generally recorded when products are
shipped to customers (primarily dealers) and ownership is
transferred. Sales to daily rental car companies with a
guaranteed repurchase option

FS-9

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING
POLICIES (Continued)

are accounted for as operating leases. The lease
revenue is recognized over the term of the lease and a gain or
loss on the remaining residual value is recognized when the
vehicles are sold at auction. The carrying value of these
vehicles is included in other current assets and as of
December 31, 2004 was $2.9 billion.

Income generated from cash and cash equivalents,
investments in marketable securities, loaned securities and
other miscellaneous receivables is reported as

Interest
income and other non-operating income/(expense), net

.

Revenue Recognition — Financial
Services Sector

Revenue from finance receivables, including
interest, net of certain deferred loan origination costs that
are included as a reduction of financing revenue, is recognized
over the term of the receivable using the interest method.
Revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred
origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease. The accrual of interest on receivables is
discontinued at the time a receivable is determined to be
uncollectible. Subsequent amounts of interest collected are
recognized in income only if full recovery of the remaining
principal is probable. Interest supplements paid by the
Automotive sector are recognized over the term of the receivable
or operating lease.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, and revenue and
expenses during the periods reported. Estimates are used when
accounting for certain items such as marketing accruals,
warranty costs, employee benefit programs, etc. Estimates are
based on historical experience, where applicable, and other
assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the
circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in
marketing estimates, actual results may differ from those
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Marketing Incentives

Automotive marketing incentives, including
customer and dealer cash payments and costs for special
financing and leasing programs paid to the Financial Services
sector are recognized as revenue reductions and are accrued at
the later of the date the related vehicle sales are recorded or
the date the incentive program is both approved and
communicated. Costs for marketing incentives are based on
assumptions regarding the number of vehicles that will have a
specific incentive applied against them.

Selected Other Costs

Freight costs are included in cost of sales.
Advertising and engineering, research and development costs are
expensed as incurred and were as follows (in billions):

FS-10

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING
POLICIES (Continued)

Sale of Receivables

Ford Credit periodically sells finance
receivables in securitization transactions. In many of our
securitization transactions, we surrender control over these
assets by selling finance receivables to securitization special
purpose entities (“SPEs”). Securitization entities are
a common, required element of securitization transactions to
meet certain legal and transaction requirements that assure that
the sold assets have been isolated from our creditors and us.

Receivables are considered sold for accounting
purposes when the receivables are transferred beyond the reach
of our creditors, the transferee has the right to pledge or
exchange the assets and we have surrendered control over the
rights and obligations of the receivables. If these criteria are
satisfied, the receivables are removed from our balance sheet at
the time they are sold.

For off-balance sheet sales of receivables,
estimated gains or losses are recognized in the period in which
the sale occurs. We retain certain interests in receivables sold
in securitization transactions. These interests are recorded at
fair value with unrealized gains or losses recorded, net of tax,
as

Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss),

a
component of stockholder’s equity.

Certain sales of receivables do not qualify for
off-balance sheet treatment, and sold receivables and associated
debt are not removed from our balance sheet. As a result, no
gain or loss is recorded for these transactions.

Foreign Currency Translation

Results of operations and cash flows of foreign
subsidiaries are, in most cases, translated to U.S. dollars at
average-period currency exchange rates. Assets and liabilities
are translated at end-of-period exchange rates.

Included in the statement of income is the impact
of re-measuring assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries
using U.S. dollars as their functional currency, gains and
losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency of a location, and the results of
our foreign currency hedging activities (Note 19). The net
income effects of these adjustments were gains of
$596 million and $454 million, and losses of
$19 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002 respectively.

Foreign currency translation adjustments related
to foreign subsidiaries using the local currency as their
functional currency are included in A

ccumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)

. Net adjustments increased
$2.2 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.9 billion in
2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively. The adjustments include a
$23 million gain, a $1 million loss and a
$32 million loss for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively that
were reclassified from

Accumulated other comprehensive
income/(loss)

and included in determining the gain or loss
on entities sold.

Depreciation and Amortization of Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost and
depreciated primarily using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the asset. The estimated useful lives
generally are 30 years for buildings and land improvements
and 14.5 years for machinery and equipment. Special tools
placed in service before January 1, 1999 are amortized
using an accelerated method over the estimated life of those
tools. Special tools placed in service beginning in 1999 are
amortized using the units-of-production method over the expected
vehicle model cycle life. Maintenance, repairs, and
rearrangement costs are expensed as incurred.

FS-11

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING
POLICIES (Continued)

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We test for impairment when events and
circumstances warrant such a review. We evaluate the carrying
value of long-lived assets for potential impairment generally on
an operating business unit basis or at the individual asset (or
asset group) level, if held for sale, using undiscounted
after-tax estimated cash flows. An asset group is considered
impaired when the anticipated separately identifiable cash flows
from the asset group are less than the carrying value.

Stock Options

Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted the
fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

for stock-based
employee compensation. Under the modified prospective method of
adoption provisions of SFAS No. 148,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and
Disclosure,

stock-based employee compensation expense
recognized in 2004 and 2003 equals the expense that would have
been recognized had the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123 been applied to all awards from its
original effective date. Results of prior years have not been
restated.

The following table illustrates the effect on net
income and earnings per share had the fair value method been
applied to all unvested outstanding stock option awards in each
year (in millions):

FS-12

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 3. INCOME TAXES

Components of income taxes, excluding
discontinued operations, cumulative effects of changes in
accounting principles and equity in net results of affiliated
companies accounted for after-tax, are as follows:

Annual tax provisions include amounts considered
sufficient to pay probable assessments for examination of
prior-year tax returns by federal, foreign, state and local
jurisdictions. Actual assessments may differ; however, we do not
expect that such an outcome would have a material effect on the
future financial statements for a particular year, although such
an outcome is possible. No provision for deferred taxes has been
made on $860 million of unremitted earnings (primarily
earnings for periods prior to 1998) that are considered to be
indefinitely invested in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Deferred taxes
for these unremitted earnings are not practicable to estimate.

FS-13

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 3. INCOME TAXES
(Continued)

The components of deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31 were as follows (in millions):

Operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes
were $7.5 billion at December 31, 2004. A substantial
portion of these losses has an indefinite carryforward period;
the remaining losses will begin to expire in 2005. Tax credits
available to offset future tax liabilities are
$2.5 billion. A substantial portion has an indefinite
carryforward period; the remainder begins to expire in 2010. Tax
benefits of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are
evaluated on an ongoing basis, including a review of historical
and projected future operating results, the eligible
carryforward period, and other circumstances. Management
believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax
assets will be realized.

On October 4, 2004, President Bush signed
the

Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004

, which
retroactively reinstated the research tax credit from the
June 30, 2004 expiration date. The reinstatement of the
research tax credit was reflected in our fourth quarter 2004
results.

During the fourth quarter, we settled various
issues related to federal and state audits of the period 1990 to
2000. The primary settlement relates to foreign sales
corporation claims. The acceptance by the Internal Revenue
Service of these claims, as well as the settlement of other
issues related to the tax years ended 1999 to 2000, resulted in
a tax benefit of $270 million.

NOTE 4. DISCONTINUED AND HELD-FOR-SALE
OPERATIONS

Automotive Sector

Held-for-sale Operations.

Consistent with our objectives to
build on the basics and focus on core businesses, management
committed in December 2004 to sell certain consolidated
dealerships in the Asia Pacific and Africa/Mazda segment. The
sale of these dealerships will allow us to concentrate on the
production and marketing of our products in the Asia Pacific
region rather than the day-to-day retailing operations. We
expect to sell these operations during the next twelve months
and have reported them as held for sale. We recorded a pre-tax
charge of $16 million reflected in

Income/(loss) before
income taxes

related to the anticipated loss on the sale of
the net assets. The charge represents the difference between the
anticipated selling price of the net assets, less costs to

FS-14

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 4. DISCONTINUED AND HELD-FOR-SALE
OPERATIONS (Continued)

sell them, and their recorded book values. We
also recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment of $64 million
reflected in

Income/(loss) before income taxes

related to
the disposal of these operations.

At December 31, 2004, the assets of the
held-for-sale operations consisted primarily of receivables and
inventory totaling approximately $49 million and
$114 million, respectively.

Discontinued Operations.

The Automotive sector completed the
disposition of several of its non-core businesses initiated in
2002 and 2003, including our former automotive recycling
businesses in the United States and Canada, our electric vehicle
business in Norway, and our insurance-related products and
services business in the UK. Associated with the disposition of
the entities, we recorded pre-tax charges of $9 million,
$105 million, and $168 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002
respectively, reflected in gain/(loss) on discontinued
operations.

In 2004, management committed to sell our Formula
One racing operations, as these operations were not consistent
with our Premier Automotive Group (“PAG”) Improvement
Plan nor our goals to build on the basics and focus on our core
business. We recorded a pre-tax charge of $69 million
related to the anticipated loss on the sale of the net assets
and a pre-tax impairment of goodwill of $204 million. We
reclassified $45 million of pre-tax operating losses for
the first nine months of 2004 and recorded a pre-tax charge of
$23 million related to the write-down of inventory to

Operating income/(loss) from discontinued operations

.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, we completed the sale of our
Formula One racing operations and recorded additional pre-tax
losses of $8 million.

The results of all discontinued Automotive sector
operations are as follows (in millions):

As of December 31, 2004, there are no
significant assets or liabilities remaining on our balance sheet
related to discontinued operations.

Financial Services Sector

Discontinued Operations.

Consistent with our strategy to focus
on our core business, we expect to either complete the sale
during 2005 or have already completed the disposition of the
operations referenced below.

During 2003, we completed the sale of Axus, our
all-makes vehicle fleet leasing operations in Europe, New
Zealand and Australia. In 2002, we recognized a pre-tax charge
of $31 million, reflected in loss on discontinued
operations. This amount represented the difference between the
selling price of these assets, less costs to sell them, and
their recorded book value.

During 2004, we completed the sale of AMI Leasing
and Fleet Management Services, our operation in the United
States that offered full service car and truck leasing. In 2003,
we recognized a pre-tax charge of $50 million, reflected in
loss on discontinued operations. This amount represented the
difference between the selling price of these assets, less costs
to sell them, and their recorded book value.

FS-15

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 4. DISCONTINUED AND HELD-FOR-SALE
OPERATIONS (Continued)

During the fourth quarter of 2004, management
committed to a plan to sell Triad Financial Corporation, our
operation in the U.S. that specializes in automobile retail
installment sales contracts with borrowers who generally would
not be expected to qualify, based on their credit worthiness,
for traditional financing sources such as those provided by
commercial banks or automobile manufacturers’ affiliated
finance companies. We expect to complete the sale of this
business during 2005 for an amount approximately equal to book
value.

The results of all discontinued Financial
Services sector discontinued operations are as follows (in
millions):

At December 31, 2004 and December 31,
2003, assets of our discontinued operations totaled
approximately $2.2 billion and $1.8 billion,
respectively, and consisted primarily of net finance receivables
of about $1.7 billion and $850 million, respectively;
net investment in operating leases of about $300 million at
December 31, 2003; and retained interest in securitized
assets of about $350 million and $450 million,
respectively.

NOTE 5. MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
SECURITIES

Trading securities are recorded at fair value
with unrealized gains and losses included in income.
Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with
net unrealized holding gains and losses reported, net of tax, in

Accumulated other comprehensive income

. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost. Realized gains and
losses are accounted for using the specific identification
method.

The fair value of substantially all securities is
determined by quoted market prices. The estimated fair value of
securities for which there are no quoted market prices is based
on similar types of securities that are traded in the market.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair
values are recorded at cost. Book value approximates fair value
for all securities.

Expected maturities of debt securities may differ
from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right
to call or prepay obligations with or without penalty.

We loan certain securities from our portfolio to
other institutions. Such securities are classified as

Loaned
securities

on the balance sheet. Collateral for the loaned
securities, consisting of cash or other securities, is required
to be maintained at a rate of 102% of the market value of a
loaned security. Ford received securities as collateral in the
amount of $399 million and $5.4 billion for 2004 and
2003, respectively. This collateral has not been pledged or
sold. Cash collateral received is recorded as an asset in

Other current assets,

offset by an obligation to return
the collateral in

Other payables

. Income received from
loaning securities is recorded as

Interest income and other
non-operating income/(expense), net.

FS-16

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 5. MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
SECURITIES (Continued)

Investments in marketable and loaned securities
at December 31 were as follows (in millions):

The proceeds and gains/(losses) from sales of
available-for-sale securities were as follows (in millions):

The amortized cost and fair value of investments
in available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities by
contractual maturity for Automotive and Financial Service
sectors at December 31, 2004 were as follows (in millions):

FS-17

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 5. MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
SECURITIES (Continued)

The fair value of the Company’s investments
in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2004,
aggregated by investment category and length of time that the
investments have been in a continuous loss position, are as
follows (in millions):

We also hold an additional $2.5 billion
investment in marketable securities as of December 31, 2004
in a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust
(“VEBA”), which assets are used to fund certain
employee benefit obligations in the near term. These investments
are recorded at fair value and classified as other assets in our
balance sheet. At December 31, 2004, the fair value and
unrealized loss of these assets that have been in a continuous
loss position for less that twelve months was $2 billion
and $7 million, respectively, and the fair value and
unrealized loss of these assets in a continuous loss position
for twelve months or greater was $7 million and
$4 million, respectively.

Management has determined that the unrealized
losses on our investments in debt and equity securities at
December 31, 2004 are temporary in nature. Factors
considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include
the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below
cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the
issuer and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a
period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.

NOTE 6. INVENTORIES —
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

Inventories at December 31 were as follows (in
millions):

Inventories are stated at lower of cost or
market. About one-fourth of inventories were determined under
the last-in, first-out method.

NOTE 7. EQUITY IN NET ASSETS OF
AFFILIATED COMPANIES

Mazda-related Investments:

We have a 33.4% ownership interest in
Mazda Motor Corporation (“Mazda”) and we account for
this investment under the equity method. The carrying value of
our

FS-18

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 7. EQUITY IN NET ASSETS OF
AFFILIATED COMPANIES (Continued)

investment in Mazda was $767.8 million and
$655.9 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Included in our investment of Mazda is
$88.4 million of goodwill. Dividends received from Mazda
were $7.8 million, $6.9 million and $6.9 million
for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The market value of our investment in Mazda as of
December 31, 2004 is $1.5 billion.

Summarized income statement information from the
published Mazda’s audited financial statements for the
twelve months ended September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are
as follows (in millions):

Included in our

Equity in net income/(loss) of
affiliated companies

was income/(loss) of
$108.2 million, $73.5 million and $(3.5) million
in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing our share of
Mazda’s results on a U.S. GAAP basis. There have been
no events at Mazda subsequent to September 30, 2004 that
would materially affect Ford’s consolidated financial
position or results of operations. Balance sheet information for
Mazda is insignificant to our consolidated balance sheet.

Included in our investment in Mazda are
convertible bonds issued by Mazda. The bonds are accounted for
as an available-for-sale security and as of December 31,
2004 and 2003, these bonds had a fair value of $219 million
and $210 million, respectively.

Other Investments:

During the year we evaluated and impaired three of our equity
method investments; Ballard, Inc., Vastera, Inc. and certain
Ford Credit unconsolidated investments in the Asia-Pacific
region. The impairment tests considered the severity and
duration of the decline in the investment’s fair value and
the forecasted recovery of the investment’s fair value. We
recorded a charge of $224 million related to the goodwill
associated with these investments.

NOTE 8. NET PROPERTY AND RELATED
EXPENSES — AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

Net property at December 31 was as follows (in
millions):

FS-19

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 8. NET PROPERTY AND RELATED
EXPENSES — AUTOMOTIVE
SECTOR (Continued)

Property-related expenses were as follows (in
millions):

NOTE 9. GOODWILL AND OTHER
INTANGIBLES

We perform our annual goodwill and intangible
asset impairment test in the second quarter. The goodwill test
is conducted on a reporting unit level that is aligned with our
current senior management structure. To test for impairment, the
carrying value of each reporting unit, including goodwill is
compared with its fair value. Fair value is estimated using the
present value of free cash flows method. No impairment resulted
from our annual test in the second quarter of 2004.

We impaired $64 million of goodwill related
to dealerships in the Asia Pacific region that were classified
as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2004. In measuring
the impairment, the carrying value of these dealerships,
including goodwill, was compared against offers received from
third parties.

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as
follows (in millions):

*

Beginning balance has been adjusted to reflect
    the reclassification of goodwill to assets of

Discontinued/held-for-sale operations

for entities
    classified as held for sale during the year.

In addition, included within

Equity in net
assets of affiliated companies

was goodwill of
$166 million at December 31, 2004.

The components of identifiable intangible assets
are as follows as of December 31, 2004 (in millions):

Pre-tax amortization expense related to these
intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 was $36 million and $35 million, respectively.
Intangible asset amortization is forecasted to range from
$30 million to $40 million per year for the next
five years.

FS-20

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 9. GOODWILL AND OTHER
INTANGIBLES (Continued)

In 2002 we adopted SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

As a result we
recognized transition charges of $1,002 million. The
charges primarily relate to the impairment of goodwill in
Kwik-Fit, our former all-makes European vehicle repair business
and the impairment of goodwill in Hertz’ industrial and
construction equipment rental business.

NOTE 10. FINANCE
RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

Net finance receivables at December 31 were as
follows (in millions):

Finance receivables that originated outside the
U.S. were $52.7 billion and $47.5 billion at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Other finance
receivables consisted primarily of real estate, commercial and
other collateralized loans and accrued interest.

Included in net finance and other receivables at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $16.9 billion and
$14.3 billion, respectively, of receivables that have been
sold for legal purposes to consolidated securitization SPEs and
are available only for repayment of debt issued by those
entities, and to pay other securitization investors and other
participants; they are not available to pay our other
obligations or the claims of our other creditors.

Future maturities, exclusive of the effects of
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities,

of total finance receivables
including minimum lease rentals are as follows (in billions):
2005 — $64.7; 2006 — $24.3; 2007 —
$13.9; thereafter — $10.1. Experience indicates that a
substantial portion of the portfolio generally is repaid before
the contractual maturity dates.

Finance receivables subject to fair value at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $106.2 billion and
$102.0 billion, respectively. The fair value of these
finance receivables at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was
$106.4 billion and $103.8 billion, respectively.

Included in retail receivables above are
investments in direct financing leases. The net investment at
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

FS-21

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 10. FINANCE
RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES
SECTOR (Continued)

The investment in direct financing leases relates
to the leasing of vehicles, various types of transportation and
other equipment and facilities. Future maturities of minimum
lease rentals, as included above, are as follows (in billions):
2005 — $2.1; 2006 — $1.5; 2007 —
$1; thereafter — $0.4.

NOTE 11. NET INVESTMENT IN OPERATING
LEASES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

The net investment in operating leases at
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

Included in net investment in operating leases at
December 31, 2004 were interests in operating leases and
the related vehicles of about $2.5 billion that have been
transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization
SPEs and are available only for repayment of debt issued by
those entities, and to pay other securitization investors and
other participants; they are not available to pay our other
obligations or the claims of our other creditors.

Minimum rentals on operating leases are
contractually due as follows: 2005 —
$4.7 billion; 2006 — $2.2 billion;
2007 — $1.3 billion; 2008 —
$548 million; 2009 — $135 million;
thereafter — $407 million.

Assets subject to operating leases are
depreciated primarily on the straight-line method over the term
of the lease to reduce the asset to its estimated residual
value. Estimated residual values are based on assumptions for
used vehicle prices at lease termination and the number of
vehicles that are expected to be returned. Operating lease
depreciation expense (which includes gains and losses on
disposal of assets) was $6.4 billion in 2004,
$8.5 billion in 2003, and $9.9 billion in 2002.

NOTE 12. SALES OF RECEIVABLES —
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

Servicing Portfolio

We retain servicing rights for receivables sold
in off-balance sheet securitization and whole-loan sale
transactions. The servicing portfolio is summarized in the
following table (in millions):

FS-22

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 12. SALES OF RECEIVABLES —
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR (Continued)

Retained Interest

Components of retained interest in securitized
assets at December 31 include (in millions):

Most of the retained interest in sold wholesale
receivables ($5.5 billion and $8 billion at
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively)
represents our undivided interest in wholesale receivables that
are available to support the issuance of additional securities
by a securitization SPE; the balance represents credit
enhancements.

Retained interests are recorded at fair value.
For wholesale receivables, book value approximates fair value
because of their short-term maturities. The fair value of
subordinated and senior securities is estimated based on market
prices. In determining the fair value of residual interest in
securitization transactions, we discount the present value of
the projected cash flows retained at various discount rates
based on economic factors in individual countries. Investments
in subordinated securities and restricted cash are senior to the
residual interest in securitization transactions.

Investment and Other Income

The following table summarizes the activity
related to off-balance sheet sales of receivables reported in

Revenues

for the years ended December 31 (in millions):

For the year ended December 31, 2004, we
utilized certain point-of-sale assumptions in our retail
transactions, which included discount rates of 11% to 13.5%, a
prepayment speed of 0.8% to 1.5% (which represents expected
payments earlier than scheduled maturity dates) and credit
losses of 0.8% to 2.8% over the life of sold receivables. The
weighted-average life of the underlying assets was
50.2 months. Our wholesale transactions included discount
rates of 11% to 12%.

FS-23

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 12. SALES OF RECEIVABLES —
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR (Continued)

Cash Flow

The following table summarizes the cash flow
movements between the transferees and us in our off-balance
sheet sales of receivables for the years ended December 31 (in
millions):

Other Disclosures

The following table summarizes key assumptions
used in estimating cash flows from sold retail receivables and
the corresponding sensitivity of the current fair values to 10%
and 20% adverse changes (in millions):

The effect of a variation in a particular
assumption on the fair value of residual interest in
securitization transactions was calculated without changing any
other assumptions and changes in one factor may result in
changes in another.

Outstanding delinquencies over 30 days
related to the off-balance sheet securitized portfolio were
$410 million and $704 million at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively. Credit losses, net of recoveries,
were $244 million and $551 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Expected static
pool credit losses related to outstanding securitized retail
receivables were 2.07% at December 31, 2004. To calculate
the static pool credit losses, actual and projected future
credit losses are added together and divided by the original
balance of each pool of assets.

On-Balance Sheet Securitization Special
Purpose Entities

We use SPEs, including on-balance sheet SPEs, in
a variety of securitization transactions as a source of funds
for our operations. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, about
$16.9 billion and $14.3 billion, respectively, of
finance receivables have been sold for legal purposes to
consolidated securitization SPEs. In addition, at
December 31, 2004, interests in operating leases and the
related vehicles of about $2.5 billion have been
transferred for legal purposes to consolidated securitization
SPEs. These receivables and interests in operating leases and
the related vehicles are only available to pay the obligations
or claims of the SPEs; they are not available to pay our other
obligations or the claims of our other creditors. The associated
debt issued by the SPEs was $16.5 billion and
$9.3 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, and includes both asset-backed commercial paper
and notes payable out of collections on these receivables and
interests in operating leases and the related vehicles. This
debt is the legal obligation of the SPEs, but for financial
statement reporting purposes is reported as debt on our balance
sheet.

FS-24

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 13. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
LOSSES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

The allowance for credit losses is our estimate
of the credit losses related to impaired receivables and
operating leases as of the date of the financial statements.
This allowance is based on factors including historical credit
loss trends, the credit quality of our present portfolio, trends
in historical and projected used vehicle values and general
economic measures. Additions to the allowance for credit losses
are made by recording charges to the provision for credit losses
on our income statement. Finance receivables and lease
investments are charged to the allowance for credit losses at
the earlier of when an account is deemed to be uncollectible or
when an account is 120 days delinquent, taking into
consideration the financial condition of the borrower or lessee,
the value of the collateral, recourse to guarantors and other
factors. Recoveries on finance receivables and lease investments
previously charged off as uncollectible are credited to the
allowance for credit losses.

Changes in the allowance for credit losses for
finance receivables, investment in direct financing leases and
investment in operating leases were as follows (in millions):

NOTE 14. LIABILITIES — AUTOMOTIVE
SECTOR (IN MILLIONS)

FS-25

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 15. DEBT AND COMMITMENTS

Automotive and Financial Services debt as of
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

(a)

Includes the effect of interest rate swaps.

(b)

Based on quoted market prices or current rates
    for similar debt with the same remaining maturities.

Subordinated Indebtedness

Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II, a
subsidiary trust (“Trust II”), has outstanding
6.50% Cumulative Convertible Trust Preferred Securities
with an aggregate liquidation preference of $5 billion (the
“Trust II Preferred Securities”). The sole assets
of Trust II are $5.2 billion principal amount of 6.50%
Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2032 of Ford Motor Company
(the “Subordinated Debentures”). At our option, we may
redeem the Subordinated Debentures, in whole or in part, on or
after January 15, 2007. To the extent we redeem the
Subordinated Debentures or upon the maturity of the Subordinated
Debentures, Trust II is required to redeem the
Trust II Preferred Securities at $50 per share plus accrued
and unpaid distributions. We guarantee the payment of all
distribution and other payments of the Trust II Preferred
Securities to the extent not paid by Trust II, but only if
and to the extent we have made a payment of interest or
principal on the Subordinated Debentures.

FS-26

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 15. DEBT AND COMMITMENTS
(Continued)

Credit Facilities*

Automotive Sector

At December 31, 2004, the Automotive sector
had $7.2 billion of contractually committed credit
agreements with various banks, of which $7.1 billion were
available for use. Eighty percent of the total facilities are
committed through June 30, 2009. Of the $7.2 billion,
$6.9 billion constitute global credit facilities and may be
used, at Ford’s option, by any of its direct or indirect
majority-owned subsidiaries on a guaranteed basis. Ford also has
the ability to transfer, on a non-guaranteed basis,
$2.6 billion of such global credit facilities to Ford
Credit and $518 million to FCE Bank plc. (“FCE”),
Ford Credit’s European operation. All of the global credit
facilities are free of material adverse change clauses and
restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity
limitations, minimum net worth requirements and credit rating
triggers that would limit our ability to borrow).

Financial Services Sector

For additional funding and to maintain liquidity,
Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries, including FCE,
have contractually committed credit facilities with financial
institutions that totaled approximately $7.5 billion at
December 31, 2004. This includes $4.3 billion of Ford
Credit facilities ($3.9 billion global and approximately
$400 million non-global) and $3.2 billion of FCE
facilities ($3.0 billion global and approximately
$200 million non-global). Approximately $800 million
of the total facilities were in use at December 31, 2004.
These facilities have various maturity dates. Of the
$7.5 billion, about 39% of these facilities are committed
through June 30, 2009. The global credit facilities may be
used, at Ford Credit’s or FCE’s option, by any of
their direct or indirect, majority-owned subsidiaries. Ford
Credit or FCE, as the case may be, will guarantee any such
borrowings. All of the global credit facilities have
substantially identical contract terms (other than commitment
amounts) and are free of material adverse change clauses and
restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity
limitations, minimum net worth requirements and credit rating
triggers) that would limit our ability to borrow.

Additionally, at December 31, 2004, banks
provided $18.0 billion of contractually committed liquidity
facilities supporting two asset-backed commercial paper
programs; $17.5 billion supported FCAR Owner Trust
(“FCAR”) program and $500 million supported Ford
Credit’s off-balance sheet wholesale securitization
program. Unlike the credit facilities described above, these
facilities provide liquidity exclusively to each individual
asset-backed commercial paper program. Utilization of these
facilities is subject to conditions specific to each program. At
December 31, 2004, about $15.7 billion of FCAR’s
bank credit facilities were available to support FCAR’s
asset-backed commercial paper or subordinated debt. The
remaining $1.8 billion of available credit lines could be
accessed for additional funding if FCAR issued additional
subordinated debt.

At December 31, 2004, Hertz had committed
credit facilities totaling $2.8 billion. Of this amount,
$1.3 billion represented global and other committed credit
facilities ($708 million of which are available through
June 30, 2009 and $560 million of which have various
maturities of up to four years); $500 million consisted of
a revolving credit line provided by Ford, which currently
expires in June 2006; $215 million consisted of
asset-backed letters of credit, and $814 million consisted
of 364-day asset-backed commercial paper facilities.

*

Credit facilities of our Variable Interest
    Entities are excluded as we do not control their use.

FS-27

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. VARIABLE INTEREST
ENTITIES

Effective July 1, 2003, we adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an
Interpretation of ARB No. 51

(“FIN 46”),
for VIEs formed prior to February 1, 2003. In December
2003, the FASB issued FIN 46R, which revised FIN 46,
in order to clarify the provisions of the original
interpretation. As a result of consolidating VIEs of which we
are the primary beneficiary, in 2003 we recognized a non-cash
charge of $264 million as the

Cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

in our statement of income.
The charge represented the difference between the fair value of
the assets, liabilities and minority interests recorded upon
consolidation and the carrying value of the investments.
Recorded assets excluded goodwill in accordance with FIN 46.

The liabilities recognized as a result of
consolidating the VIEs do not represent additional claims on our
general assets; rather, they represent claims against the
specific assets of the consolidated VIEs. Conversely, assets
recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not
represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy claims
against our general assets. Reflected in our December 31,
2004 balance sheet are $4.0 billion of VIE assets.

Automotive Sector

VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary:

The activities with the joint ventures described
below include purchasing substantially all of the joint
ventures’ output under a cost plus margin arrangement
and/or volume dependent pricing. Described below are the most
significant of the VIEs that were consolidated.

Ford Otosan (“Otosan”) is a joint
venture in Turkey with the Koc Group of Turkey (41% partner) and
public investors (18%). Otosan is the single assembly supplier
of the Ford Transit Connect and an assembly supplier of the Ford
Transit van.

Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH (“GFT”)
is a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH &
Co. Kg i.G., a German company, to which we transferred our
European manual transmission operations in Halewood, England,
Cologne, Germany and Bordeaux, France. GFT is the primary
supplier of manual transmissions for use in our European
vehicles.

Tekfor Cologne Gmbh (“Tekfor”) is a
50/50 joint venture with Neumayer Holdings GmbH, a German
company, to which we transferred our Cologne forging operations.
Tekfor produces transmission and chassis components for use in
our vehicles. Tekfor was formed and consolidated in the second
quarter of 2003.

We hold equity interests in certain Ford and/or
Lincoln Mercury dealerships. As of December 31, 2004, we
consolidated a portfolio of approximately 135 dealerships that
are part of our Dealer Development program. The program’s
purpose is to facilitate the establishment of independent
franchised dealers by allowing a participating dealership
operator to become the sole owner of a Ford and/or Lincoln
Mercury dealership corporation by purchasing equity from us
using the operator’s share of dealership net profits. We
supply and finance the majority of vehicles and parts to these
dealerships and the operators have a contract to buy our equity
interest over a period of time.

VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary:

At December 31, 2004, we had an investment
in Trust II that is a VIE of which we are not the primary
beneficiary. Another subsidiary trust, Ford Motor Company
Capital Trust (“Trust I”), held debentures, which
were redeemed on January 2, 2004. Effective July 1,
2003, we deconsolidated

FS-28

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
(Continued)

Trust I and Trust II. Our obligation to
Trust I was satisfied in 2004 and our obligation to
Trust II is presented as

Subordinated debt

on our
balance sheet. For further discussion of Trust II, see
Notes 15 and 17.

We had several investments in other joint
ventures deemed to be VIEs of which we are not the primary
beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with our interests
in these entities are based primarily on ownership percentages.
Our maximum exposure (approximately $11 million at
December 31, 2004) to any potential losses, should they
occur, associated with these VIEs is limited to our equity
investments and, where applicable, receivables due from the VIEs.

Financial Services Sector

Ford Credit uses SPEs in a variety of on-balance
sheet and off-balance sheet securitization transactions.
On-balance sheet SPEs, discussed in Note 12, are considered
VIEs under FIN 46 and have been consolidated.

Ford Credit has investments in certain joint
ventures deemed to be VIEs of which it is not the primary
beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with Ford
Credit’s interests in these entities are based primarily on
ownership percentages. Ford Credit’s maximum exposure
(approximately $141 million at December 31, 2004) to
any potential losses, should they occur, associated with these
VIEs is limited to its equity investments.

We also sell, in contractually committed
agreements, finance receivables and notes backed by interests in
vehicles subject to operating leases to bank-sponsored
asset-backed commercial paper issuers that are SPEs of the
sponsor bank; these SPEs are not consolidated by us. At
December 31, 2004, approximately $5.0 billion of
finance receivables and notes have been sold.

NOTE 17. CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER
SHARE

All general voting power is vested in the holders
of Common Stock and Class B Stock. Holders of Common Stock
have 60% of the general voting power and holders of Class B
Stock are entitled to such number of votes per share as would
give them the remaining 40%. Shares of Common Stock and
Class B Stock share equally in dividends, with stock
dividends payable in shares of stock of the class held. If
liquidated, each share of Common Stock will be entitled to the
first $0.50 available for distribution to holders of Common
Stock and Class B Stock, each share of Class B Stock
will be entitled to the next $1.00 so available, each share of
Common Stock will be entitled to the next $0.50 so available and
each share of Common and Class B Stock will be entitled to
an equal amount thereafter.

In December 2002, we redeemed for cash, at an
aggregate redemption price of $177 million, all of our
outstanding Series B Depositary Shares, representing 1/2000
of a share of $1.00 par value Series B Cumulative Preferred
Stock.

As discussed in Note 15, Trust II
Preferred Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference of
$5 billion are outstanding. At the option of the holder,
each Preferred Security is convertible, at any time on or before
January 15, 2032, into shares of Ford Common Stock at a
rate of 2.8249 shares for each Preferred Security (equivalent to
a conversion price of $17.70 per share). Conversion of all
shares of such securities would result in the issuance of
282 million shares of Ford Common Stock.

FS-29

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 17. CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER
SHARE (Continued)

Changes to the number of shares of capital stock
issued were as follows (shares in millions):

Amounts Per Share of Common and Class B
Stock

The calculation of diluted income per share of
Common and Class B Stock takes into account the effect of
obligations, such as stock options and convertible securities,
considered to be potentially dilutive. Basic and diluted
income/(loss) per share were calculated using the following
number of shares (in millions):

*

Not included in calculation of diluted earnings
    per share due to their antidilutive effect are 282 million
    shares related to convertible preferred securities in 2003 and
    2002.

NOTE 18. STOCK OPTIONS

We have stock options outstanding under two
Long-term Incentive Plans (“LTIP”), the 1990 LTIP and
the 1998 LTIP. No further grants may be made under the 1990 LTIP
and all outstanding options are exercisable. Grants may be made
under the 1998 LTIP through April 2008. All outstanding options
under the 1990 LTIP continue to be governed by the terms and
conditions of the existing option agreements for those grants.
Under the 1998 LTIP, 33% of the options are generally
exercisable after the first anniversary of the date of grant,
66% after the second anniversary, and 100% after the third
anniversary. Stock options expire ten years from the grant date
and, beginning January 1, 2003, are expensed. Additionally,
we have outstanding performance stock rights, restricted stock
units, restricted stock grants and equivalents, and stock
appreciation rights.

Under the 1998 LTIP, 2% of our issued common
stock as of December 31 becomes available for granting plan
awards in the succeeding calendar year. Any unused portion is
available for later

FS-30

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 18. STOCK OPTIONS
(Continued)

years. The limit may be increased up to 3% in any
year, with a corresponding reduction in shares available for
grants in future years. At December 31, 2004, the number of
unused shares carried forward aggregated to 49.7 million
shares.

*

Exercised at option prices ranging from $7.55 to
    $12.53 during 2004, $10.99 to $13.54 during 2003, and $7.09 to
    $12.53 during 2002.

Details on various stock option exercise price
ranges are as follows:

The estimated fair value of stock options at the
time of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model was
as follows:

See Note 2 for a discussion of the impact on
earnings of our adoption of SFAS No. 123 in respect to
stock option awards, effective January 1, 2003.

NOTE 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments and requires that
all derivatives be recorded at fair value on our balance sheet,
including embedded derivatives.

Our operations are exposed to global market
risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, certain commodity prices and interest rates. The
objective of our risk

FS-31

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

management program is to manage the financial and
operational exposure arising from these risks by offsetting
gains and losses on the underlying exposures with gains and
losses on derivatives used to hedge them. We have hedge
documentation that defines the hedging objectives, practices,
procedures, and accounting treatment. Our hedging program and
our derivative positions and strategy are reviewed on a regular
basis by our management.

We have elected to apply hedge accounting to a
portion of our derivatives. Hedges that receive designated hedge
accounting treatment are evaluated for effectiveness at the time
they are designated as well as throughout the hedge period. Some
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under
SFAS No. 133; for others, we elect not to apply hedge
accounting treatment. For both of these, the mark to fair value
is reported currently through earnings. Regardless of hedge
accounting treatment, derivative positions are used only to
manage identified exposures.

The use of derivatives to manage market risk
results in counterparty risk, or the risk of a counterparty
defaulting on a derivative contract. We enter into master
netting agreements with counterparties that usually allow for
netting of certain exposures. We establish exposure limits for
each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty
diversification. Substantially all our counterparty exposures
are with counterparties that have long-term debt ratings of
single-A or better.

Automotive Sector

Cash Flow Hedges:

We
use forward contracts and options, which qualify as cash flow
hedges to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange and
commodity price risks. The effective portion of changes in the
fair value of cash flow hedges is deferred in

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income

(“OCI”) and is
recognized in

Cost of sales

when the hedged item affects
earnings.

Derivatives used to manage financial exposures
for foreign exchange and commodity price risks generally mature
within three years or less, with a maximum maturity of five
years. Cash flow hedges are discontinued when it is probable
that the original forecasted transaction will not occur. The
impact to earnings associated with hedge ineffectiveness from
cash flow hedges was recorded in

Cost of sales

as a gain
of $1 million in 2004 and a gain of $36 million in
2003.

Net Investment Hedges:

We use foreign currency contracts to
hedge the net assets of certain foreign entities to offset the
translation and economic exposures related to our investment in
these entities. The change in the value of these derivatives is
recorded in OCI as a foreign currency translation adjustment.
The ineffectiveness related to net investment hedges is recorded
in

Cost of sales

. Losses of $2 million and gains of
$95 million were recorded in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Other Derivative Instruments:

As previously stated, some derivatives
do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or we elect not to
apply hedge accounting. We refer to these as non-designated
hedges. In such cases, both the unrealized and realized gains
and losses are reported in

Cost of sales

. The impact to
earnings associated with non-designated hedges were gains of
$338 million and $268 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively. These earnings include gains of $257 million
and $128 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively, related
to the revaluation of foreign currency derivatives that were
offset by revaluation losses on foreign denominated debt, also
reported in

Cost of sales

.

FS-32

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

Financial Services Sector

Ford Credit’s overall risk management
objective is to maximize financing income while limiting the
effect of changes in foreign currencies and interest rates. Ford
Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch
exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency
of the debt funding those receivables. Ford Credit also executes
cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert
substantially all of the foreign currency debt obligations to
the local currency of the receivables. Interest rate swaps are
used to manage exposure to re-pricing risk, which arises when
assets and the debt funding those assets have different
re-pricing periods that consequently respond differently to
interest rate changes.

Cash Flow Hedges:

Ford Credit designates interest rate
swaps as cash flow hedges to manage its exposure to interest
rate risks. The impact to earnings associated with hedge
ineffectiveness was recognized in

Revenues

as gains of
$12 million and $3 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively. In assessing hedge effectiveness for cash flow
hedges related to interest rates, Ford Credit uses the
variability of cash flows method and excludes accrued interest.
Net interest settlements and accruals excluded from the
assessment of hedge effectiveness were expenses of
$354 million and $482 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, and recorded in

Interest expense

. Ford
Credit also excludes from the assessment of hedge effectiveness
foreign exchange adjustments, representing the portion of the
derivative’s fair value attributable to the change in
foreign currency exchange rates for the reporting period; these
adjustments in 2004 and 2003 were amounts that were not
significant. While net interest settlements and accruals and
foreign currency adjustments are excluded from hedge
effectiveness testing, they are included in evaluating the
overall risk management objective.

Ford Credit’s designated cash flow hedges
include hedges of revolving commercial paper balances. At
December 31, 2004, the maximum term of these hedges is
37 months.

Fair Value Hedges:

Ford Credit uses interest rate swaps
to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk. Unrealized gains
and losses related to derivatives in fair value hedges, along
with changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure
are recognized and recorded in

Revenues

. The impact to
earnings from hedge ineffectiveness were gains of
$10 million and $255 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively. In assessing hedge effectiveness, we exclude
accrued interest on the receive and pay legs of the swaps. Net
interest settlements and accrual income of $2.1 billion and
$1.8 billion in 2004 and 2003, respectively, were recorded
as a reduction in

Interest expense

. Ford Credit also
excludes from the assessment of hedge effectiveness foreign
exchange adjustments, representing the portion of the
derivative’s fair value attributable to the change in
foreign currency exchange rates for the reporting period, which
were favorable adjustments totaling $0.4 billion in 2004
and $1.3 billion in 2003. While net settlements and foreign
currency adjustments are excluded from Ford Credit’s hedge
effectiveness testing, they are included in evaluating the
overall risk management objective. The adjustments related to
the foreign currency derivatives reported above were offset by
revaluation impacts on debt denominated in a currency other than
the location’s functional currency, which was also recorded
in

Revenues.

Net Investment Hedges:

Ford Credit uses foreign currency
forward exchange contracts and options to hedge the net assets
of certain foreign entities to offset the translation and
economic exposures related to its investment in foreign
entities. Changes in the value of these derivatives are recorded
in OCI as a foreign currency translation adjustment.

Ineffectiveness, which is recognized in

Revenues,

were losses of $29 million and
$17 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

FS-33

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

Other Derivative Instruments:

As previously stated, some derivatives
do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or Ford Credit
elects not to apply hedge accounting (non-designated hedges).
For non-designated hedges we recorded gains of $289 million
and $58 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to
unrealized gains and losses resulting from the effect of changes
in interest rates. In addition, net interest settlements and
accruals related to derivatives that were non-designated
resulted in income of $52 million and $105 million in
2004 and 2003, respectively. These net interest settlement and
accrual amounts were included in evaluating Ford Credit’s
overall risk management objective. Unrealized and realized gains
and losses related to certain non-designated foreign currency
derivatives resulted in favorable adjustments totaling
$0.4 billion in 2004 and $1.9 billion in 2003. The
adjustments related to foreign currency derivatives reported
above were offset by revaluation impacts on the related debt
denominated in a currency other than the location’s
functional currency. Both the unrealized and realized gains and
losses on non-designated derivatives were recorded in

Revenues

.

Total Company

Summary of OCI Activity:

The following table summarizes
activity in OCI excluding foreign currency translation
adjustments on net investment hedges for both the Automotive and
Financial Services sectors during the years ended
December 31, (in millions):

We expect to reclassify for Automotive and
Financial Services sectors, existing net gains of
$786 million from OCI to net income during the next twelve
months as the underlying exposures are realized.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments:

The fair value of derivatives reflects
the price that a third party would be willing to pay or receive
in arm’s length transactions and includes mark-to-market
adjustments to reflect the effects of changes in the related
index. The following tables summarize the estimated fair value
of our derivative financial instruments, taking into
consideration the effects of legally enforceable netting
agreements, at December 31 (in billions):

FS-34

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

The Automotive and Financial Services sectors
held derivative instruments with notional values of
$71 billion and $166 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2004.

NOTE 20. OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE
SECURITIES TRADING

The reconciliation of

Net income/(loss) from
continuing operations

to cash flows from operating
activities before securities trading is as follows (in millions):

Cash paid/(received) for interest and income
taxes was as follows (in millions):

NOTE 21. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS,
RESTRUCTURINGS AND OTHER ACTIONS

Automotive Sector

Acquisitions:

In
2004, we acquired 100% ownership of ZF Batavia, LLC (renamed
Batavia Transmissions, LLC) from ZF Transmissions Technologies
LLC. Batavia Transmissions, LLC produces front wheel drive
continuously variable transmissions and front wheel drive
4-speed automatic transmissions for use in certain of our
vehicles sold in North America and Europe. We acquired Batavia
Transmissions, LLC from ZF Transmission Technologies LLC, a
company we jointly own (49%) with ZF Friedrichshafen Germany
(51%). Prior to this acquisition we consolidated ZF Batavia LLC
in accordance with FIN 46.

Employee Separation
Actions:

In 2004, we announced the PAG
Improvement Plan including hourly and salaried employee
separation programs and the planned closure in 2005 of assembly

FS-35

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 21. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS,
RESTRUCTURINGS AND OTHER ACTIONS (Continued)

operations at our Browns Lane facility. We
recognized a pre-tax charge of $94 million in the Ford
Europe and PAG segment related to the PAG Improvement Plan,
$71 million of which was recognized in the fourth quarter.
Estimated 2005 pre-tax charges related to the planned closure of
Browns Lane in 2005 are $75 million. Additionally, pre-tax
charges of $40 million related to hourly and salaried
employee separation programs in Canada and Mexico were
recognized in the Americas segment in 2004.

In 2003, we initiated planned shift pattern
changes at our Genk vehicle assembly plant and manufacturing,
engineering and staff efficiency actions in Cologne and various
UK locations. We recognized pre-tax charges of $92 million
in 2004, $17 million of which was recognized in the fourth
quarter, and $486 million in 2003 in employee separation
costs associated with these actions. Also recorded in 2003 were
pre-tax charges of $27 million related to other actions,
including supplier claims.

The charges for employee separation actions were
recognized in

Cost of sales

. The table below summarizes
the pre-tax charges incurred in 2004 for the employees
separation actions described above, the related liability at
December 31, 2004 and the estimated total charges related
to these actions (in millions):

*

Includes foreign currency translation adjustments.

Additionally, in 2002, we recognized a pre-tax
charge of $173 million related to the transfer of Transit
vehicle production to Turkey, die-casting rationalization and
other manufacturing actions in our Ford Europe and PAG segment.
We also recognized a pre-tax charge of $157 million in 2002
related to line speed reduction at our Halewood facilities and
other efficiency actions in our Ford Europe and PAG segment.

Dispositions:

In
2002, we completed the sale of our interest in Kwik-Fit Holdings
Ltd. (“Kwik-Fit”), a European all-makes vehicle repair
business, to an acquisition company formed by CVC Capital
Partners. The sales price of £330 million (equivalent
to about $500 million) consisted of a combination of
approximately $300 million in cash and a note with a face
value of approximately $200 million. We recognized a
pre-tax loss of $519 million in cost of sales in 2002.
Additionally, in 2002, we acquired a 19% equity stake in the
acquisition company. Our disposal of our interest in Kwik-Fit
was not reflected as a discontinued operation due to our
continued involvement as an equity investor in the acquisition
company. In 2003, we recognized pre-tax income of
$49 million related to the acceleration of payments
received on the note.

FS-36

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 21. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS,
RESTRUCTURINGS AND OTHER ACTIONS (Continued)

Financial Services Sector

During 2004, Ford Credit announced a sales branch
integration plan, which includes the consolidation of regional
sales offices and an integration of branch locations. The sales
branch integration plan will be completed during 2006. The costs
associated with this restructuring action are reported in

Operating and other expenses

. The table below summarizes
the pre-tax charge incurred, the related liability at
December 31, 2004 and the estimated total charges related
to these actions (in millions):

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Employee Retirement and Savings
Plans

We have two principal qualified defined benefit
retirement plans in the U.S. The Ford-UAW Retirement Plan covers
hourly employees represented by the UAW, and the General
Retirement Plan covers substantially all other Ford employees in
the U.S. hired on or before December 31, 2003. The hourly
plan provides noncontributory benefits related to employee
service. The salaried plan provides similar noncontributory
benefits and contributory benefits related to pay and service.
Other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries have separate plans that
generally provide similar types of benefits for their employees.
We established, effective January 1, 2004, a defined
contribution plan generally covering new salaried U.S. employees
hired on or after that date. Ford-UAW Retirement Plan expense
accruals for UAW-represented Ford employees assigned to Visteon
Corporation (“Visteon Hourly Employees”) are charged
to Visteon Corporation (“Visteon”), our largest
supplier.

For our plans that provide benefits based on
salary, we project employee future salary growth for such
salary-related benefits. Certain of our defined benefit pension
plans provide benefits that are not based on salary (e.g., U.S.
Ford-UAW Retirement Plan, noncontributory portion of the U.S.
General Retirement Plan, and Canada Ford-UAW Retirement Plan).
The salary growth assumption is not applicable to these benefits.

Plan obligations and costs are based on existing
retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any
potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to
which we are presently committed (e.g., in labor contracts).

In general, our plans are funded, with the main
exceptions of certain plans in Germany and the U.S. defined
benefit plans for senior management. In such cases, an unfunded
liability is recorded.

The expense for our worldwide defined
contribution plans was $80 million in 2004,
$37 million in 2003 and $23 million in 2002. This
includes the expense for company matching contributions to our
primary savings plans (U.S. and Canada) of $40 million in
2004 and $0 in 2003 and 2002. The 2004 increase in savings plan
expense was due to reinstatement of company matching
contribution on salaried employee contributions in the U.S. and
Canada.

Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance
Benefits

We, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor
plans to provide selected health care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees. The Ford UAW
Hospital-Surgical-Medical-Drug-Dental-Vision Program

FS-37

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(Continued)

covers hourly employees represented by the UAW,
and the Ford Salary Healthcare Plan covers substantially all
other Ford employees in the U.S. hired before June 1, 2001.
In December 2003, we announced a new postretirement health care
plan for U.S. salary employees hired on or after June 1,
2001. The plan provides for annual company allocations to
employee-specific notional accounts to be used to fund
postretirement health care benefits. We also offer company-paid
postretirement life insurance benefits to U.S. salary employees
hired before January 1, 2004 and all U.S. hourly employees.
Our employees generally may become eligible for benefits when
they retire; however, benefits and eligibility rules may be
modified from time to time.

In 2003, we agreed to relieve Visteon of its
responsibility for the postretirement health care and life
insurance liability related to service prior to our spin off of
Visteon at June 30, 2000 for the Visteon Hourly Employees.
This resulted in a one-time charge to expense in 2003 of
$1.6 billion, and the forgiveness of associated Visteon
promissory notes previously included in plan assets. Pursuant to
the agreement, the expense associated with service after
June 30, 2000 for Visteon Hourly Employees is charged to
Visteon. Postretirement health care and life insurance expense
for former salaried Ford employees who transferred to Visteon
and met certain age and service conditions at June 30, 2000
is also charged to Visteon.

At December 31, 2004, we had a long-term
receivable of $835 million representing Visteon’s
responsibility for the postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits of the Visteon Employees pursuant to the 2003
agreement. The receivable increased with expense charged to
Visteon during 2004 and is expected to decrease as Visteon or
the Visteon Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust
(“Visteon VEBA”) makes cash payments to us directly,
in case of a payment from Visteon, or to us as Ford Plan
Administrator, in case of a payment from the Visteon VEBA.

Visteon has agreed to make a series of cash
payments to the Visteon VEBA so that by December 31, 2049,
the assets in the Visteon VEBA will equal Visteon’s
postretirement healthcare and life insurance liability for the
Visteon Employees on that date. The cash payments to the Visteon
VEBA will commence no later than January 2, 2006 for the
Visteon Hourly Employees and January 1, 2011 for the
Visteon Salaried Employees.

At December 31, 2004, there was objective
evidence that Visteon would be undertaking structural and
strategic changes to its operations. Based on this and other
considerations, we recorded a valuation allowance of
$600 million against the receivable from Visteon in order
to reflect our assessment of its recoverability. The receivable
will be analyzed for recoverability on an on-going basis as
future postretirement health care and life insurance expenses
are allocated to Visteon. The effect of the valuation allowance
is not included in the table below.

On December 8, 2003, the President signed
into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003. The law provides for a federal
subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that
provide a benefit at least actuarially equivalent to the benefit
established by the law. We provide retiree drug benefits that
exceed the value of the benefits that will be provided by
Medicare Part D, and our retirees’ out-of-pocket costs
are less than they would be under Medicare Part D.
Therefore, we have concluded that our plan is at least
“actuarially equivalent” to the Medicare Part D
plan and that we will be eligible for the subsidy. We have
reflected the impact of the subsidy by reducing our 2004 expense
by $250 million. We also recorded an unrecognized gain,
which reduced our benefit obligation by $1.8 billion at
December 31, 2003.

FS-38

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(Continued)

The measurement date for substantially all of our
worldwide postretirement benefit plans is December 31. Our
expense for defined benefit pension, postretirement health care
and life insurance benefits was as follows (in millions):

The year-end status of these plans was as follows
(in millions):

FS-39

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(Continued)

*

For plans with both prepaid assets and accrued
    liabilities, prepaid assets have been netted with accrued
    liabilities for presentation on our Sector and Consolidated
    Balance Sheets. Prior year presentation has been reclassified to
    conform to current presentation.

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the
assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease)
the postretirement health care benefit obligation by
approximately $5.2 billion/$(4.2) billion and the service
and interest component of health care expense by
$330 million/$(260) million. The actual retiree health
care cost trend for 2004 was 9%.

Plan Contributions

Our policy for funded plans is to contribute
annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws,
regulations, and union agreements. We do from time to time make
contributions beyond those legally required.

Pension:

In 2004, we
made over $2.3 billion of cash contributions to our funded
pension plans. During 2005, we expect to contribute
$2.8 billion to our worldwide pension plans, including
about $300 million of benefit payments paid directly by the
Company in respect of unfunded plans. Based on current
assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal
requirement to fund our

FS-40

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(Continued)

major U.S. pension plans in 2005. We also do not
expect to be required to pay any variable-rate premiums for our
major plans to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in 2005.

Health Care and Life Insurance:

In 2004, we contributed
$2.8 billion to our previously established VEBA for U.S.
hourly retiree health care and life insurance benefits. During
2005, we expect to contribute $200 million to the VEBA.

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

The following table presents estimated future
gross benefit payments and subsidy receipts related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003 (in millions):

Plan Asset Information

Pension:

Our
investment strategy for pension assets has a long-term horizon
and is tolerant of return volatility, in keeping with the
long-term nature of the liabilities. The target asset allocation
for our major plans worldwide generally is 70% equities,
30% fixed income. The present allocation to alternative
investments (e.g., private equity) is below 1%. All assets are
externally managed and investment managers have discretion to
invest globally within their respective mandates. A diverse
array of investment processes within asset classes reduces
volatility. Most assets are actively managed; manager skill and
broad mandates have generally produced long-term returns in
excess of common market indices. Ford securities comprised less
than one-half of one percent of the value of our worldwide
pension plan assets during 2004 and 2003.

Investment managers are permitted to use
derivatives as efficient substitutes for traditional securities
and to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate
risks. Interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments
are used for the purpose of hedging changes in the fair value of
assets that result from interest rate changes and currency
fluctuations. Derivatives may not be used to leverage or to
alter the economic exposure to an asset class outside the scope
of the mandate to which an investment manager has been appointed.

The equity allocation shown at year-end 2004 and
2003 includes public equity securities, private equity
investments, and REITS. Direct real estate investments shown
separately reflect a liquidation strategy that has been in place
for several years. Other assets include cash held for near-term
benefit funding; cash held by investment managers for liquidity
purposes is included in the appropriate asset class balance.

The long-term return assumption at year-end 2004
is 8.75% for U.S. plans, 8.00% for U.K. plans and
averages 7.76% for non-U.S. plans. A generally consistent
approach is used worldwide to develop this assumption. This
approach considers various inputs, including a review of
historical plan returns and peer data, as well as long-run
inputs from a range of internal and external advisors for
capital market returns, inflation and other variables, adjusted
for specific aspects of our strategy.

FS-41

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
(Continued)

At December 31, 2004, our actual 10-year
annual rate of return on pension plan assets was 11.20% and
8.41% for U.S. and the U.K. plans, respectively.

Health Care and Life
Insurance:

VEBA assets totaling
$6.8 billion at December 31, 2004 include
$5.2 billion of long-term investments, which are managed in
a strategy similar to the pension investment strategy described
previously. The remaining VEBA assets are invested in short-term
fixed income securities, a portion of which is managed
internally, with the remainder managed externally. Ford
securities comprised less than one-half of one percent of the
market value of the total retiree VEBA assets during 2004 and
2003.

The equity allocation shown at year-end 2004
includes public equity securities and REITS. There were no
investments in private equity or direct real estate investments
at year-end 2004. Cash held by investment managers for liquidity
purposes is included in the appropriate asset class balance.

Investment managers are permitted to use
derivatives as efficient substitutes for traditional securities
and to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate
risks. Interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments
are used for the purpose of hedging changes in the fair value of
assets that result from interest rate changes and currency
fluctuations. Derivatives may not be used to leverage or to
alter the economic exposure to an asset class outside the scope
of the mandate to which an investment manager has been appointed.

The expected return assumption applicable to the
total retiree VEBA is 7.93%, reflecting the weighted average of
the expected returns on the long-term and short-term portions of
the portfolio. Since the assets in the long-term portion of the
portfolio are managed in a strategy similar to the US pension
plan, the expected return on this portion of the portfolio is
identical to that used for the U.S. pension plan. The
methodology used to develop the expected return assumption for
the short-term portion of the portfolio considers inputs from a
range of internal and external advisors for capital market
returns.

NOTE 23. SEGMENT
INFORMATION

Our operating activity consists of two operating
sectors, Automotive and Financial Services. Segment selection is
based on the organizational structure we use to evaluate
performance and make decisions on resource allocation, as well
as availability and materiality of separate financial results
consistent with that structure. During 2004, we changed the
reporting of our Automotive sector to show three segments, The
Americas, Ford Europe and PAG, and Ford Asia Pacific and Africa/
Mazda. Automotive sector prior period information has been
reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

The Americas segment includes primarily the sale
of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles and related service
parts in North America (U.S., Canada and Mexico) and Ford-brand
vehicles and related service parts in South America, together
with the associated costs to design, develop, manufacture and
service these vehicles and parts.

The Ford Europe and PAG segment includes
primarily the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service
parts in Europe and Turkey and the sale of PAG-brand vehicles
(i.e., Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin) and related
service parts throughout the world (including North America and
South America), together with the associated costs to design,
develop, manufacture and service these vehicles and parts.

The Asia Pacific and Africa/ Mazda segment
includes primarily the sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related
service parts in the Asia Pacific region and South Africa,
together with the associated

FS-42

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 23. SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Continued)

costs to design, develop, manufacture and service
these vehicles and parts, and also includes our share of the
results of Mazda and certain of our Mazda-related investments.

The Other Automotive component of the Automotive
sector consists primarily of certain centrally managed net
interest expense, which is not managed individually by the three
segments.

Transactions among Automotive segments are
presented on an absolute cost basis, eliminating the effect of
legal entity transfer prices within the Automotive sector for
vehicles, components and product engineering.

The Financial Services sector includes two
segments, Ford Credit and Hertz. Ford Credit provides
vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance. Hertz rents
cars, light trucks and industrial and construction equipment.

FS-43

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 23. SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Continued)

FS-44

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 23. SEGMENT INFORMATION
(Continued)

(a)

Financial Services sector’s interest income
    is recorded as Revenues.

(b)

Includes intersector transactions occurring in
    the ordinary course of business.

FS-45

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 24. GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION

NOTE 25. SUMMARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA (UNAUDITED)

Certain amounts for prior periods were
reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
Reclassifications include the presentation of discontinued
operations and

Interest income and other non-operating
income/(expense), net.

NOTE 26. COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES

Lease Commitments

We lease land, buildings and equipment under
agreements that expire in various years. Minimum rental
commitments under non-cancelable operating leases were as
follows (in millions):

Rental expense was $1.7 billion in 2004,
$1.6 billion in 2003 and $1.3 billion in 2002.

FS-46

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
(Continued)

Guarantees

The fair values of guarantees and
indemnifications issued during 2004 and 2003 are recorded in the
financial statements and are de minimis. At December 31,
2004, the following guarantees were issued and outstanding:

Guarantees related to affiliates and third
parties:

We guarantee debt and lease
obligations of certain joint ventures as well as certain
financial obligations of outside third parties to support
business and economic growth. Expiration dates vary, and
guarantees will terminate on payment and/or cancellation of the
obligation. A payment would be triggered by failure of the
guaranteed party to fulfill its obligation covered by the
guarantee. In some circumstances, we are entitled to recover
from the third party amounts paid by us under the guarantee.
However, our ability to enforce these rights is sometimes stayed
until the guaranteed party is paid in full. The maximum
potential payments under these guarantees total approximately
$471 million, the majority of which relates to the
Automotive sector.

In 1992, we issued $500 million of 7.25%
Notes due October 1, 2008 (“Notes”). In 1999, the
bondholders agreed to relieve us as the primary obligor with
respect to the principal of these Notes. As part of this
transaction, we placed certain financial assets into an escrow
trust for the benefit of the bondholders, and the trust became
the primary obligor with respect to the principal (we became
secondarily liable for the entire principal amount).

We also have guarantees outstanding associated
with a subsidiary trust, Trust II. For further discussions
of Trust II, refer to Notes 15 and 17.

Indemnifications:

In
the ordinary course of business, we execute contracts involving
indemnifications standard in the industry and indemnifications
specific to a transaction such as the sale of a business. These
indemnifications might include claims against any of the
following: environmental, tax and shareholder matters;
intellectual property rights; power generation contracts;
governmental regulations and employment-related matters; dealer,
supplier, and other commercial contractual relationships; and
financial matters, such as securitizations. Performance under
these indemnities would generally be triggered by a breach of
terms of the contract or by a third-party claim. We regularly
evaluate the probability of having to incur costs associated
with these indemnifications and have accrued for expected losses
that are probable. We are party to numerous indemnifications and
many of these indemnities do not limit potential payment;
therefore, we are unable to estimate a maximum amount of
potential future payments that could result from claims made
under these indemnities.

FS-47

FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
(Continued)

Product Performance

Warranty:

Estimated
warranty costs and additional service actions are accrued for at
the time the vehicle is sold to a dealer. Included in the
warranty cost accruals are costs for basic warranty coverages on
vehicles sold. Additional service actions such as product
recalls and other customer service actions are not included in
the warranty reconciliation below, but are also accrued for at
the time of sale. Estimates for warranty costs are made based
primarily on historical warranty claim experience. The following
is a tabular reconciliation of the product warranty accrual (in
millions):

Extended Service
Plans:

Fees or premiums for the
issuance of extended service plans are recognized in income over
the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be
incurred in performing services under the contract.

Litigation and Claims

Various legal actions, governmental
investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be
instituted or asserted in the future against us, including those
arising out of alleged defects in our products; governmental
regulations relating to safety, emissions and fuel economy;
financial services; employment-related matters; dealer, supplier
and other contractual relationships; intellectual property
rights; product warranties; environmental matters; shareholder
or investor matters; and financial reporting matters. Certain of
the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions.
Some of the foregoing matters involve or may involve
compensatory, punitive, or antitrust or other treble damage
claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns,
environmental remediation programs, sanctions, or other relief,
which, if granted, would require very large expenditures.

Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and
the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable
with assurance. We have established accruals for certain of the
matters discussed in the foregoing paragraph where losses are
deemed probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably
possible, however, that some of the matters discussed in the
foregoing paragraph for which accruals have not been established
could be decided unfavorably to us and could require us to pay
damages or make other expenditures in amounts or a range of
amounts that cannot be estimated at December 31, 2004. We
do not reasonably expect, based on our analysis, that such
matters would have a material effect on future financial
statements for a particular year, although such an outcome is
possible.

FS-48

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Ford Motor Company:

We have completed an integrated audit of Ford
Motor Company’s 2004 consolidated financial statements and
of its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 and audits of its 2003 and 2002
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of income,
of stockholders’ equity and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Ford Motor
Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion,
the accompanying sector balance sheet and the related sector
statements of income and of cash flows, presented for purposes
of additional analysis, present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated and sector financial statements (collectively,
the “financial statements”) are the responsibility of
the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these financial statements in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 9 to the financial
statements, on January 1, 2002, the Company adopted
SFAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, on
January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and
Disclosure.” As discussed in Note 16 to the financial
statements, on July 1, 2003, the Company adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an
Interpretation of ARB No. 51.”

Internal control over financial
reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s
assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting in Item 9A. of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, that the Company maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over

FS-49

financial reporting in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal
control over financial reporting includes obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Detroit, Michigan

March 9, 2005

FS-50

Ford Motor Company

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

(in millions)

(a)

Finance receivables and lease investments deemed
    to be uncollectible and other changes, principally amounts
    related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments.

(b)

Accounts and notes receivable deemed to be
    uncollectible and translation adjustments.

(c)

Net change in inventory allowances.

(d)

$600 million is related to non-current
    receivables and is netted against

Automotive —
    Other assets

on the Sector Balance Sheet.

FSS-1

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Ford Motor Company:

Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, of management’s assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting and of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
referred to in our report dated March 9, 2005 (appearing in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of
the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of
this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Detroit, Michigan

March 9, 2005

FSS-2

Exhibit Index

*

Incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this
    Report (file number reference 1-3950, unless otherwise
    indicated).

**

Management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

Instruments defining the rights of holders of
certain issues of long-term debt of Ford and of certain
consolidated subsidiaries and of any unconsolidated subsidiary,
for which financial statements are required to be filed with
this Report, have not been filed as exhibits to this Report
because the authorized principal amount of any one of such
issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ford and our
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Ford agrees to furnish a
copy of each of such instruments to the Commission upon request.