10-K


k83502e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 12/31/2003

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Ford Motor Company

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

313-322-3000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

(a)

In addition, shares of Common Stock of Ford are
    listed on certain stock exchanges in Europe.

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes

ü

No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

ü

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes

ü

No

As
of June 30, 2003, Ford had outstanding 1,762,162,479 shares
of Common Stock and 70,852,076 shares of Class B Stock.
Based on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction
closing price of the Common Stock on that date ($10.99 a share),
the aggregate market value of such Common Stock was
$19,366,165,644. Although there is no quoted market for our
Class B Stock, shares of Class B Stock may be
converted at any time into an equal number of shares of Common
Stock for the purpose of effecting the sale or other disposition
of such shares of Common Stock. The shares of Common Stock and
Class B Stock outstanding at June 30, 2003 included
shares owned by persons who may be deemed to be
“affiliates” of Ford. We do not believe, however, that
any such person should be considered to be an affiliate. For
information concerning ownership of outstanding Common Stock and
Class B Stock, see the Proxy Statement for Ford’s
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 13, 2004
(our “Proxy Statement”), which is incorporated by
reference under various Items of this Report.

As
of February 27, 2004, Ford had outstanding 1,760,536,756
shares of Common Stock and 70,852,076 shares of Class B
Stock. Based on the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Transaction closing price of the Common Stock on that date
($13.75 a share), the aggregate market value of such Common
Stock was $24,207,380,395.

DOCUMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE*

*

As stated under various Items of this Report,
    only certain specified portions of such document are
    incorporated by reference in this Report.



PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Ford Motor Company (referred to herein as
“Ford”, the “Company”, “we”,
“our” or “us”) was incorporated in Delaware
in 1919. We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also
known as Ford Motor Company, incorporated in 1903 to produce and
sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford. We are
one of the world’s largest producers of cars and trucks
combined. We and our subsidiaries also engage in other
businesses, including financing and renting vehicles and
equipment.

In addition to the information about Ford and its
subsidiaries contained in this Report, extensive information
about our Company can be found throughout our website located at
www.ford.com, including information about our management team,
our brands and products, and our corporate governance principles.

The corporate governance information on our
website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, our Code
of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, our Code of Ethics for
Directors, our Standards of Corporate Conduct for all employees,
and the Charters for each of our Board Committees. In addition,
amendments to, and waivers granted to our directors and
executive officers under, our Codes of Ethics, if any, will be
posted in this area of our website. These corporate governance
documents can be accessed by logging onto our website and
clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link.

You will then see a list of corporate governance
documents. Click on the document you desire to access. In
addition, printed versions of our Corporate Governance
Principles, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel,
our Standards of Corporate Conduct and the Charters for each of
our Board Committees can be obtained, free of charge, by writing
to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One
American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.

In addition to the Company information discussed
above provided on our website, all of our periodic report
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available,
free of charge, through our website, including our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those
reports. Also, each Section 16 filing made with the SEC by
the Company or any of its executive officers or directors with
respect to our common stock are made available, free of charge,
through our website. The periodic reports and amendments and the
Section 16 filings are available through our website as
soon as reasonably practicable after such report or amendment is
electronically filed with the SEC.

To access our SEC reports or amendments or the
Section 16 filings, log onto our website and click on the
following link on each successive screen.

•

“Investor Information”

•

“Company Reports”

•

“U.S. S.E.C. EDGAR”

•

“Click here to continue to view SEC
    Filings”

You will then see a list of reports filed with
the SEC. Click on the report you desire to access.

The foregoing information regarding our website
and its content is for your convenience only. The content of our
website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this
report or filed with the SEC.


Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Overview

Segments

. Our
business is divided into two business sectors: the Automotive
sector and the Financial Services sector. We manage these
sectors as four primary operating segments as described below.

We provide financial information (such as,
revenues, income, and assets) for each of these business sectors
and operating segments in three areas of this Report:
(1) Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” on
page 32; (2) Item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” on pages 33 through 67, and
(3) Notes 2, 20 and 21 of the Notes to Financial
Statements located at the end of this Report. Financial
information relating to certain geographic areas is also
included in the above-mentioned Notes.

Revitalization Plan

.
Following an extensive review of all of our operations, in
particular those in North and South America, on January 11,
2002, we announced a revitalization plan (the
“Revitalization Plan”) that included the following
elements:

•

New products: A product-led revitalization
    program that will result in the introduction of 20 new or
    freshened products in the United States annually between January
    2002 and mid-decade.

•

Plant capacity: Reduction of North American
    installed final assembly capacity by about one million vehicles
    by mid-decade to realign capacity with market conditions.

•

Hourly workforce: Reduction of about
    12,000 hourly employees in North America by mid-decade.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

•

Salaried workforce: Our 2001 voluntary separation
    program for salaried employees and other related actions
    resulted in a 3,500-person workforce reduction in North America.
    An additional 1,500-person salaried workforce reduction was
    achieved in 2002 to reach the goal of 5,000.

Progress on Revitalization
Plan

. Overall, we are on track to
achieve the objectives contained in our Revitalization Plan. For
a discussion of our progress with respect to the Revitalization
Plan, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview”.

Automotive Sector

General

We sell cars and trucks throughout the world. In
2003, we sold 6,724,000 vehicles throughout the world. Our
automotive vehicle brands include Ford, Mercury, Lincoln, Volvo,
Jaguar, Land Rover, and Aston Martin.

Substantially all of our cars, trucks and parts
are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and
through distributors and dealers outside of North America. At
December 31, 2003, the approximate number of dealers and
distributors worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as
follows: Ford, 10,651; Mercury, 2,016; Lincoln, 1,544; Volvo,
2,277; Jaguar, 814; Land Rover, 1,524; Aston Martin, 104.
Because many of these dealerships distribute more than one of
our brands from the same sales location, a single dealership may
be counted under more than one brand. In addition to the
products we sell to our dealers for retail sale, we also sell
cars and trucks to our dealers for sale to fleet customers,
including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet
customers, leasing companies and governments. Sales to all of
our fleet customers in the United States in the aggregate have
represented between 22% and 23% of our total United States car
and truck sales for the last five years. We do not depend on any
single customer or small group of customers to the extent that
the loss of such customer or group of customers would have a
material adverse effect on our business.

In addition to producing and selling cars and
trucks, we also provide retail customers with a wide range of
after-the-sale vehicle services and products through our dealer
network, in areas such as maintenance and light repair, heavy
repair, collision, vehicle accessories and extended service
warranty. In North America, we market these products and
services under several brands including Genuine Ford and
Lincoln-Mercury Parts and Service

SM

, Ford Extended
Service Plan

SM

(ESP), and Motorcraft

SM

.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The worldwide automotive industry, Ford included,
is affected significantly by a number of factors over which we
have little control, including general economic conditions. The
automotive industry is a highly-competitive, cyclical business
that has a wide variety of product offerings. The number of cars
and trucks sold (commonly referred to as “industry
demand”) can vary substantially from year to year. In any
year, industry demand depends largely on general economic
conditions, the cost of purchasing and operating cars and
trucks, and the availability and cost of credit and fuel.
Industry demand also reflects the fact that cars and trucks are
durable items that people generally can wait to replace.

Our unit sales vary with the level of total
industry demand and our share of that industry demand. Our share
is influenced by how our products compare with those offered by
other manufacturers based on many factors, including price,
quality, styling, reliability, safety, and functionality. Our
share also is affected by our timing of new model introductions
and manufacturing capacity limitations. Our ability to satisfy
changing consumer preferences with respect to type or size of
vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, can
impact our sales and earnings significantly.

The profitability of vehicle sales is affected by
many factors, including the following:

Further, because Ford and other manufacturers
have a high proportion of costs that are fixed (including
relatively fixed labor costs), small changes in unit sales
volumes can significantly affect overall profitability.

In addition, the automobile industry continues to
face a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by
industry excess capacity. For the past several decades,
manufacturers typically have given price discounts and other
marketing incentives to purchasers to maintain production levels
and market shares. A discussion of our revenue management
strategy to compete in this pricing environment is set forth
below in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview”.

Competitive
Position

. The worldwide automotive
industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant
producer. Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major
percentage of total sales within particular countries,
especially their countries of origin. Detailed information
regarding our competitive position in the principal markets
where we compete can be found below as part of the overall
discussion of the automotive industry in those markets.

Seasonality

. We
generally record the sale of a vehicle (and recognize sales
proceeds in revenue) when it is produced and shipped to our
customer (i.e., our dealer or distributor). We manage our
vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors,
including dealer stock levels (i.e., number of units held in
inventory by our dealers and distributors for sale to retail and
fleet customers) and retail sales (i.e., units sold by our
dealers and distributors to their customers at retail). There
generally is no material seasonal impact on our production
levels or the overall business. To the extent that we do
experience some fluctuation in the business of a seasonal
nature, it has generally occurred in the second and third
quarters and primarily is the result of the annual



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

two to three week summer shutdown of our
manufacturing facilities during the third quarter. This downtime
is used to prepare our manufacturing facilities for the annual
new model year changeover. Typically, production is higher in
the second quarter in anticipation of the shutdown and lower in
the third quarter due to the two to three weeks of downtime. As
a result, operating results for the third quarter typically are
less favorable than those of the other quarters.

Raw Materials

. We
purchase a wide variety of raw materials for use in the
production of our vehicles from numerous suppliers around the
world. These raw materials include non-ferrous metals (e.g.,
aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium, platinum and
rhodium), ferrous alloys (e.g., steel), energy (e.g., natural
gas) and resins (e.g., polypropylene). We believe that we have
adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw
materials necessary to meet our needs. However, there are risks
and uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain of these
raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient
quantities to meet our needs.

Backlog Orders

. We
generally produce and ship our products on average within
approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become
firm. Therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders
accumulates during any period.

Intellectual
Property

. We own, or hold licenses to
use, numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global
basis. Our policy is to protect our competitive position by,
among other methods, filing U.S. and international patent
applications to protect technology and improvements that we
consider important to the development of our business. As such,
we have generated a large number of patents related to the
operation of our business and expect this portfolio to continue
to grow as we actively pursue additional technological
innovation. We currently have over 11,000 active patents and
pending patent applications globally, with an average age for
patents in our active patent portfolio being 5 years. In
addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our
proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to
develop and maintain our competitive position. While we believe
these patents, patent applications and know-how, in the
aggregate, to be important to the conduct of our business, and
we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by
others, none is individually considered material to our
business. Similarly, we own numerous trademarks and service
marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our
company and its products and services globally. Certain of these
marks are integral to the conduct of our business, the loss of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

United States

Sales Data

. The
following table shows U.S. industry sales of cars and
trucks for the years indicated:

We classify cars by small, medium, large and
premium segments and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van
(including minivans), full-size pickup, sport utility vehicles
and medium/ heavy segments. However, with the introduction of
crossover or hybrid vehicle lines, the distinction between
traditional cars and trucks has become more difficult to draw
and these vehicles are not consistently classified as either by
the various manufacturers. In the tables below, crossover
vehicles have been classified as sport utility vehicles. The
term “bus” as used in this discussion refers to vans
designed to carry



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

passengers. The following tables show the
proportion of United States car and truck unit sales by segment
for the industry (including both domestic and foreign-based
manufacturers) and Ford (including all of our brands sold in the
U.S.) for the years indicated:

As the tables above indicate, there has been a
general shift from cars to trucks for both industry sales and
Ford sales. This shift has been occurring gradually over a
number of years. Ford’s sales of trucks as a percentage of
its total vehicle sales has also increased since 1999 because of
higher sales of sport utility vehicles and full-size pickups.
Ford’s sales of the small and medium car segment as a
percentage of its total sales has deteriorated more than the
general decline of the industry sales in these segments because
of the discontinuance of certain product offerings (e.g., Ford
Escort, Mercury Cougar, Ford Contour and Mercury Mystique) and
reduction in low-margin daily rental car business. Ford’s
sales of the premium car segment as a percentage of total Ford



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

U.S. car sales has increased since 1998
because of the addition of Volvo vehicles as a result of our
purchase of Volvo Car Corporation on March 31, 1999 and
expansion of our Jaguar car product offerings. The decline in
premium car sales in 2003 primarily reflects the discontinuance
of certain product offerings (e.g. Lincoln Continental).

Market Share Data

.
Our principal competitors in the United States include General
Motors Corporation, DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Toyota
Corporation, and Honda Motor Corporation. The following tables
show changes in car and truck United States market shares for
Ford (including all of our brands sold in the U.S.) and the
other four leading vehicle manufacturers for the years
indicated. The percentages in each of the following tables
represent the percentage of the combined car and truck industry.

_______________

*      All U.S. retail sales
data are based on publicly available information from the media
and trade publications.

**

Ford purchased Volvo Car on March 31, 1999
    and Land Rover on June 30, 2000. The figures shown here
    include Volvo Car and Land Rover on a pro forma basis for the
    periods prior to their acquisition by Ford. In 1999, Land Rover
    represented less than 0.2 percentage points of total market
    share.

***

“All Other” includes primarily
    companies based in various European countries, Korea and other
    Japanese manufacturers and, with respect to the U.S. Truck
    Market Shares table and U.S. Combined Car and Truck Market
    Shares table, includes heavy truck manufacturers.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The decline in overall market share for Ford
since 1999 is primarily the result of increased competition and,
in particular, an increased number of new competitive truck
product offerings. In addition, this decline also reflects
actions we have taken to improve our profitability, including
the discontinuance of a number of vehicles and a planned
reduction in low-margin daily rental car sales.

Fleet Sales

. The
sales data and market share information provided above include
both retail and fleet sales. Fleet sales include sales to daily
rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing
companies and governments. Fleet sales generally are less
profitable than retail sales and, within the fleet sales
category, sales to daily rental car companies generally are less
profitable than sales to other fleet purchasers.

The table below shows our fleet sales in the
United States, and the amount of those sales as a percentage of
our total United States car and truck sales, for the last five
years.

As the table above indicates, sales to daily
rental car companies are down for the third consecutive year.
This decline reflects primarily the continued execution of our
strategy of reducing sales to daily rental car companies to
improve our overall profitability. The decline in Commercial and
Other Units Sold reflects, in part, a broad weakness in this
segment driven by difficult economic conditions.

Warranty Coverage and Additional Service
Actions

. We presently provide warranty
coverage for defects in factory-supplied materials and
workmanship on all vehicles in the United States. The warranty
coverage for Ford/Mercury vehicles generally extends for
36 months or 36,000 miles (whichever occurs first) and
covers components of the vehicle, including tires beginning
January 1, 2001 for 2001 and later model years. Prior to
January 1, 2001, tires were warranted only by the tire
manufacturers. The United States warranty coverage for luxury
vehicles (Lincoln, Jaguar, Volvo and Land Rover) extends for
48 months or 50,000 miles (whichever occurs first) but,
except for 2001 or later model year Lincoln and Volvo vehicles,
does not include tires, which are warranted by the tire
manufacturers. Warranty coverage for safety restraint systems
(safety belts, air bags and related components) extends for
60 months or 50,000 miles (whichever occurs first), except
on Volvo vehicles, which is 60 months/ unlimited mileage.
Also, corrosion damage resulting in perforation (holes) in body
sheet metal panels is covered on 1995 and newer models for
60 months/ unlimited mileage, with 72 months/
unlimited mileage on Jaguar/Land Rover products and
96 months/ unlimited mileage on Volvo vehicles. In
addition, the Federal Clean Air Act requires warranty coverage
for 8 years or 80,000 miles (whichever occurs first) for
emissions equipment (e.g., catalytic converter and powertrain
control module) on most light duty vehicles sold in the United
States. As a result of these warranties, costs for warranty
repairs can be substantial.

In addition to the costs associated with the
contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also
incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and
customer satisfaction actions.

Estimated warranty costs and additional service
action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued at the time
of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty costs and additional
service action costs are subject to adjustment from time to time
depending on actual experience.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

For additional information with respect to costs
for warranty and additional service actions, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Estimates” and Note 23 of the Notes to
Financial Statements.

Europe

Market Share
Information

. Outside of the United
States, Europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and
trucks. We consider Europe to consist of the following 19
markets: Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Austria,
Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland,
Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and
Poland. The automotive industry in Europe is intensely
competitive. Our principal competitors in Europe include General
Motors Corporation, DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Volkswagen
A.G., PSA, Renault Group, Fiat SPA and Toyota Corporation. For
the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have
collectively held between 72% and 78% of the total car market.
This competitive environment is expected to intensify further as
Japanese manufacturers increase their production capacity in
Europe, and all of the other (non-Ford) manufacturers of premium
brands (e.g., BMW, Mercedes Benz and Audi) continue to broaden
their product offerings. For a discussion of restructuring
actions taken in Europe in 2003, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”

In 2003, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately
17.1 million cars and trucks in Europe, down 1% from 2002
levels. Our combined car and truck market share in Europe
(including all of our brands sold in Europe) in 2003 was 10.7%,
down about 0.2 percentage points from 2002.

Britain and Germany are our most important
markets within Europe, although the Southern European countries
are becoming increasingly significant. Any adverse change in the
British or German market has a significant effect on our total
European automotive profits. For 2003 compared with 2002, total
industry sales were up 2.0% in Britain and down 0.6% in Germany.
Our combined car and truck market share in these markets
(including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2003 was
19.7% in Britain (down 0.9 percentage points from last
year) and 8.6% in Germany (down 1.1 percentage points from
a year ago).

Marketing
Incentives

. The automotive industry in
Europe continues to be intensely competitive. In Europe in 2003,
increased competition resulted in substantial retail and fleet
incentive spending on the part of Ford and most manufacturers,
particularly in our key European market of Britain. Similar to
the United States, marketing costs in Europe include primarily
(i) marketing incentives on vehicles, such as rebates and
costs for special financing and lease programs,
(ii) accruals for costs and/or losses associated with our
required repurchase of certain vehicles sold to daily rental car
companies, and (iii) costs for advertising and sales
promotions for vehicles. We utilize revenue management
strategies in Europe consistent with those in the United States.
A discussion of our revenue management strategy is set forth
below in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview”.

Motor Vehicle Distribution in
Europe

. On October 1, 2002, the
Commission of the European Union adopted a new regulation that
changes the way motor vehicles are sold and repaired throughout
the European Community (the “Block Exemption
Regulation”). Under the Block Exemption Regulation,
manufacturers had the choice to either operate an
“exclusive” distribution system with exclusive dealer
sales territories, but possible sales to any reseller (e.g.,
supermarket chains, internet agencies and other resellers not
authorized by the manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end
customers both within and outside of the dealer’s exclusive
sales territory, or a “selective” distribution system.

We, as well as the vast majority of the other
automotive manufacturers, have elected to establish a
“selective” distribution system, allowing us to
restrict the dealer’s ability to sell our vehicles to
unauthorized resellers. In addition, under the
“selective” distribution system, we are



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

entitled to determine the number of our dealers,
but beginning in October 2005, not their location. Under either
system, the new rules make it easier for a dealer to display and
sell multiple brands in one store without the need to maintain
separate facilities. Within this new regulation, the Commission
also has adopted sweeping changes to the repair industry.
Dealers can no longer be required by the manufacturer to perform
repair work themselves. Instead, dealers can subcontract the
work to independent repair shops that meet reasonable criteria
set by the manufacturer. These authorized repair facilities can
perform warranty and recall work, in addition to other repair
and maintenance work. While a manufacturer can continue to
require the use of its parts in warranty and recall work, the
repair facility can use parts made by others that are of
comparable quality for all other repair work. We have negotiated
and implemented new Dealer, Authorized Repairer and Spare Part
Supply contracts on a country-by-country level and, therefore,
the Block Exemption Regulation now applies with respect to all
of our dealers.

With these new rules, the Commission intends to
increase competition and narrow car price differences from
country to country. At this time it is difficult to quantify the
full impact of these changes on our European operations.
However, in the first year of its existence, the Block Exemption
Regulation has contributed to an even more competitive
environment in Europe, which, in turn, has contributed to a
significant increase in marketing incentives, thus adversely
affecting our profitability in Europe.

Warranty Coverage and Additional Service
Actions

. Beginning in January 2002,
warranty coverage provided by volume manufacturers (including
Ford) in most of our European markets increased from one year
with unlimited mileage to two years with unlimited mileage. This
increase in warranty coverage was prompted by new consumer laws
in eleven of the 19 European markets that granted private
buyers a two-year period in which to pursue defects in goods
(including vehicles and substantial components). Prior to
January 2002, Ford provided warranty coverage on Jaguar and
Volvo brand (only in Britain) vehicles that extended for
36 months or 60,000+ miles and will continue to provide
such warranty coverage. In Britain, Ford provides a warranty
package on Ford-brand vehicles that includes a 36 month
warranty composed of a 12 month/ unlimited mileage base
warranty and free of charge OEW (Extended Service Plan) covering
up to a further 24 months and 60,000 miles. Commercial
vehicles (e.g., Ford Transit and Ford Transit Connect) carry a
24 month/ unlimited mileage warranty except in Britain
where Ford currently provides a 36 month or 100,000 miles
base warranty. In Britain, Jaguar and Land Rover provide
36 month/ unlimited mileage warranty, enhanced in January
2002 to unlimited mileage from the previous 60,000 mile
warranty. In mainland Europe, Jaguar provides 36 month/
unlimited mileage warranty, enhanced in January 2002 to
unlimited mileage from the previous 100,000 km limit; Land Rover
provides 36 month 100,000 km warranty, enhanced in November
2001 from the previous 12 month warranty; and Volvo
provides 24 month/ unlimited mileage warranty. In addition
to the base warranties discussed above, Ford warrants the
bodywork of all of its brands against rust perforation for
periods between 6 years and 12 years.

In addition to the costs associated with the
contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also
incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and
customer satisfaction actions.

Estimated warranty costs and additional service
action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued at the time
of sale. Accruals for estimated warranty costs and additional
service action costs are subject to adjustment from time to time
depending on actual experience.

For additional information with respect to costs
for warranty and additional service actions, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Estimates” and Note 23 of the Notes to
Financial Statements.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Other Markets

Canada and Mexico

.
Canada and Mexico also are important markets for us. In Canada,
industry sales of new cars and trucks in 2003 were approximately
1.6 million units, down 6% from 2002 levels. In 2003,
industry sales of new cars and trucks in Mexico were
approximately 1 million units, about the same as 2002
levels. Our combined car and truck market share in these markets
(including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2003 was
15.8% in Canada (about the same as last year) and 16.5% in
Mexico (about the same as last year).

South America

.
Brazil and Argentina are our principal markets in South America.
The economic environment in those countries has been volatile in
recent years, particularly in 2002, leading to large variations
in industry sales. Results have also been influenced by
continued weak economic conditions, political uncertainty, and
government actions to reduce inflation and public deficits.
Industry sales in 2003 were approximately 1.4 million units
in Brazil, down about 5% from 2002, and approximately 140,000
units in Argentina, up 46% from 2002. Our combined car and truck
market share in these markets (including all of our brands sold
in these markets) in 2003 was 12.1% in Brazil (up
1.8 percentage points from last year) and 21.8% in
Argentina (up 5.3 percentage points from a year ago).

Ford has undertaken restructuring actions in
recent years to improve its competitiveness in South America. In
addition, we built a new assembly plant in Brazil, which
manufactures a new family of vehicles for the South American
markets and other markets.

Asia Pacific

. In the
Asia Pacific region, Australia, Taiwan, Thailand and Japan are
our principal markets. Details of the industry volumes and our
combined car and truck market share for these countries
(including all of our brands sold in a particular country) are
shown below.

_______________

* Our combined car and truck market share in Japan has
been less than 1% in recent years.

In addition, we own a 33.4% interest in Mazda
Motor Corporation (“Mazda”) and account for Mazda on
an equity basis. Mazda’s market share in Japan has been in
the 5% range in recent years. Our principal competition in the
Asia Pacific region has been the Japanese manufacturers. We
anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions
(including duty reductions) will continue to intensify
competition in the region.

We began operations in India in 1999, launching
an all-new small car (the Ikon) designed specifically for that
market. In addition, Ford India sells components to other Ford
affiliates.

We also are in the process of increasing our
presence in China. During 2002, a new purchasing office was
established in China to take advantage of sourcing opportunities
for global markets from that country. Changan Ford is our 50/50
joint venture operation with Chongqing Changan Automobile Co,
Ltd. The Changan Ford assembly plant located in Chongqing became
operational and began producing the Fiesta model in January 2003
and the Mondeo model in mid-2003. We have also announced that
more than $1 billion would be invested over the next
several years to expand manufacturing capacity, introduce new
products and expand distribution channels in the Chinese
automotive market. The investment will initially support the
addition of new products and expansion of production capacity at
Changan Ford from 20,000 units a year to 150,000 units per year.
It will



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

also support the establishment of a second
assembly plant and a new engine plant. In addition, we have a
30% interest in Jiangling Motors Corporation with operations
located in Nanchang. We also import Jaguar, Volvo, Land Rover,
and selected Ford vehicles into China.

Financial Services Sector

Ford Motor Credit Company

Ford Motor Credit Company (“Ford
Credit”) provides vehicle and dealer financing in
36 countries to more than 11 million customers and
more than 12,500 automotive dealers. Ford Credit is an
indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford.

Ford Credit offers a wide variety of automotive
financial services to and through automotive dealers throughout
the world. Ford Credit’s primary financial products fall
into three categories:

•

Retail financing — purchasing retail
    installment sale contracts and retail leases from dealers, and
    offering financing to commercial customers, primarily vehicle
    leasing companies and fleet purchasers, to purchase or lease
    vehicle fleets.

•

Wholesale financing — making loans to
    dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known
    as floorplan financing.

•

Other financing — making loans to
    dealers for working capital, improvements to dealership
    facilities, and the acquisition and refinancing of dealership
    real estate.

Ford Credit also services the finance receivables
and leases it originates and purchases, makes loans to Ford
affiliates, purchases certain receivables of Ford and its
subsidiaries and provides insurance services related to its
financing programs. Ford Credit’s revenues are earned
primarily from retail installment sale contracts and retail
leases, including interest supplements and other support
payments it receives from Ford on special-rate retail financing
programs, from investment and other income related to sold
receivables, and from payments made under wholesale and other
dealer loan financing programs.

Ford Credit does business in all 50 states
of the United States through about 160 dealer automotive
financing branches and seven regional service centers, and does
business in all provinces in Canada through 16 dealer
automotive financing branches and two regional service centers.
Outside the United States, FCE Bank plc (“FCE”)
is Ford Credit’s largest operation. FCE’s primary
business is to support the sale of Ford vehicles in Europe
through the Ford dealer network. A variety of retail, leasing
and wholesale finance plans are provided in most countries in
which it operates. FCE does business in the United Kingdom,
Germany and most other European countries. Ford Credit, through
its subsidiaries, also operates in Mexico, Puerto Rico, Brazil,
Chile, Venezuela, Argentina, Australia, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand
and New Zealand. Ford Credit also operates through joint
ventures with local financial institutions and other third
parties in India, Indonesia, South Africa and Saudi Arabia. In
addition, Ford Credit manages Ford’s vehicle financing
operations in other countries where Ford Credit does not have
operations.

Ford Credit’s share of retail financing for
new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in
the United States and new Ford-brand vehicles sold by dealers in
Europe and Ford



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Credit’s share of wholesale financing for
those brands of vehicles acquired by dealers in the United
States and Europe were as follows during the last three years:

For a detailed discussion of Ford Credit’s
on-balance sheet receivables, managed receivables, receivables
sold through securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions,
credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables
ratios, funding sources and funding strategies, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations”. For a discussion of
how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks, see
Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
About Market Risk”.

The predominant share of Ford Credit’s
business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our
dealers. Any extended reduction or suspension of the production
or sale of our vehicles due to a decline in consumer demand,
work stoppage, governmental action, negative publicity or other
event, or significant changes to marketing programs sponsored by
us, would likely have an adverse effect on Ford Credit’s
business.

We periodically sponsor special-rate financing
programs available only through Ford Credit. Under these
programs, we make interest supplement or other support payments
to Ford Credit. These programs may increase Ford Credit’s
financing volume and share of financing sales of Ford vehicles.
See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements for more
information about these support payments.

Under a profit maintenance agreement with Ford
Credit, we have agreed to make payments to maintain Ford
Credit’s earnings at certain levels. In addition, under a
support agreement with FCE, Ford Credit has agreed to maintain
FCE’s net worth above a minimum level. No payments were
made under either of these agreements during the 2001 through
2003 periods.

The Hertz Corporation

The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) and its
affiliates, associates and independent licensees represent what
Hertz believes is the largest worldwide general use car rental
brand based upon revenues. Hertz maintains a substantial network
of company-owned car rental locations both in the United States
and in Europe, and what it believes to be the largest number of
on-airport car rental locations in the world, enabling Hertz to
provide consistent quality, pricing and service worldwide. Hertz
derives approximately 74% of its car rental revenues from
on-airport locations. The Hertz #1 Club Gold

TM

service provides an expedited rental service to members
worldwide. Through its many travel industry relationships with
airlines and hotels, Hertz has targeted the most frequent
travelers to become Hertz #1 Club Gold

TM

members.

Hertz, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Hertz
Equipment Rental Corporation (“HERC”), also operates
one of the largest industrial and construction equipment rental
businesses in North America based upon revenues and maintains a
significant market share in the North American industrial and
construction equipment rental market. HERC rents a broad range
of earthmoving equipment,



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

material handling equipment, aerial and
electrical equipment, air compressors, pumps, small tools,
compaction equipment and construction-related trucks.

Other activities of Hertz include self-insurance
operations for both its car rental and industrial and
construction equipment rental businesses, the sale of its used
cars and equipment and third-party claim management services.

Hertz operates its businesses from approximately
7,200 locations throughout the United States and in over
150 foreign countries and jurisdictions. Hertz is an indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary of Ford.

Below are some financial highlights for Hertz as
consolidated in our Statement of Income (in millions):

Governmental Standards

A number of governmental standards and
regulations relating to safety, corporate average fuel economy
(“CAFE”), emissions control, noise control,
damageability, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor
vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the
United States, Europe and elsewhere. In addition, manufacturing
and assembly facilities in the United States, Europe and
elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air
emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of
hazardous substances. Such facilities in the United States and
Europe also are subject to comprehensive national, regional,
and/or local permit programs with respect to such matters.

Mobile Source Emissions
Control

—

U.S. Requirements.

The Federal Clean Air Act imposes
stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that
lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines
produced for sale in the United States. Currently, most light
duty vehicles sold in the United States must comply with these
standards for 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever
first occurs. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) has promulgated post-2004 model year standards
that are more stringent than the default standards contained in
the Clean Air Act. These new regulations will require most light
duty trucks to meet the same emissions standards as passenger
cars by the 2007 model year. The stringency of the new standards
presents compliance challenges and is likely to hinder efforts
to employ light-duty diesel technology, which could negatively
impact our ability to meet CAFE standards. The EPA also has
promulgated post-2004 emission standards for
“heavy-duty” trucks (8,500-14,000 lbs. gross
vehicle weight). These standards are likely to pose technical
challenges and may affect the competitive position of full-line
vehicle manufacturers such as Ford.

Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, California has
received a waiver from the EPA to establish its own unique
emissions control standards. New vehicles and engines sold in
California must be certified by the California Air Resources
Board (“CARB”). CARB has adopted stringent vehicle
emissions standards that started phasing in with the 2004 model
year. These new standards treat most light duty trucks the same
as passenger cars and require both types of vehicles to meet new
stringent emissions requirements. As with the EPA’s
post-2004 standards, CARB’s vehicle standards present a
difficult engineering challenge, and will essentially rule out
the use of light-duty diesel technology.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Since 1990, the California program has included
requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale
zero-emission vehicles, which produce no emissions of regulated
pollutants (“ZEV”). Currently available ZEVs are
typically battery-powered vehicles with narrow consumer appeal
due to their limited range, reduced functionality, and high
cost. The ZEV mandate initially required that a specified
percentage of each manufacturer’s vehicles produced for
sale in California, beginning at 2% in 1998 and increasing to
10% in 2003, must be ZEVs. In 1996, CARB eliminated the ZEV
mandate for the 1998-2002 model years, but retained the 10%
mandate in a modified form beginning with the 2003 model year.
Around the same time, vehicle manufacturers voluntarily entered
into agreements with CARB to conduct ZEV demonstration programs.

In 2001, CARB proposed a number of changes to the
ZEV mandate that were ultimately withdrawn, in part as a result
of litigation by some manufacturers. In April 2003, CARB voted
to adopt new amendments to the ZEV mandate that shift the
near-term focus of the regulation away from battery-electric
vehicles to advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric
vehicles or compressed natural gas vehicles) with extremely
low — but not zero — tailpipe emissions. The
rules also give some credit for so-called “partial zero
emission vehicles” (“PZEVs”), which can be
internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low
tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. In addition,
the rules call on the industry to ramp up production of
zero-emission fuel cell vehicles over the longer term. In the
aggregate, the industry must produce 250 zero-emission fuel
cell vehicles by the 2008 model year, and 2,500 more in the
2009-2011 model year period. A panel of independent experts will
review the feasibility of these requirements in 2006. While the
changes appear to reflect a recognition that battery-electric
vehicles simply do not have the potential to achieve widespread
customer acceptance, there are substantial questions about the
feasibility of producing the required number of fuel-cell
vehicles due to the substantial engineering challenges and high
costs associated with this technology.

The Clean Air Act permits other states that do
not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt
California’s motor vehicle emission standards no later than
two years before the affected model year. New York,
Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine adopted the California
standards effective with the 2001 model year or before. New York
and Massachusetts have adopted the California ZEV mandate along
with alternative ZEV compliance programs. In January 2004, the
New Jersey legislature voted to adopt California standards,
including the ZEV mandate. Other states, including Maryland and
Connecticut, are currently considering the adoption of
California standards. There are problems with transferring
California standards to northeast states, including the
following: 1) the driving range of ZEVs is greatly
diminished in cold weather, thereby limiting their market
appeal; and 2) the northeast states have refused to adopt
the California reformulated gasoline regulations, which may
impair the ability of vehicles to meet California’s in-use
standards.

Ford has accumulated ZEV credits in California,
New York and Massachusetts through sales of TH!NK brand electric
vehicles, and it has plans to accumulate more credits by selling
future PZEV models. In the longer term, however, it is doubtful
whether the market will support the number of battery electric
vehicles called for by the modified ZEV mandate. Fuel cell
technology may in the future enable production of ZEVs with
widespread consumer appeal. However, due to the engineering
challenges, the high cost of the technology, infrastructure
needs, and other issues, it does not appear that mass production
of fuel cell vehicles will be commercially feasible for years to
come. Compliance with the ZEV mandate may eventually require
costly actions that would have a substantial adverse effect on
Ford’s sales volume and profits. For example, Ford could be
required to curtail the sale of non-electric vehicles and/or
offer to sell electric vehicles well below cost. Other states
may seek to adopt CARB’s ZEV mandate pursuant to the Clean
Air Act, thereby increasing the costs to Ford.

Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA and CARB can
require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming
vehicles. The EPA, through its testing of production vehicles,
also can halt the



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

shipment of non-conforming vehicles. Ford may be
required to recall, or may voluntarily recall, vehicles for such
purposes in the future. The costs of related repairs or
inspections associated with such recalls, or the cost of a
stop-shipment order, could be substantial.

European
Requirements.

European Union
(“EU”) directives and related legislation limit the
amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor
vehicles and engines sold in the EU. In 1998, the EU adopted a
new directive on emissions from passenger cars and light
commercial trucks. More stringent emissions standards applied to
new car certifications beginning January 1, 2000 and to new
car registrations beginning January 1, 2001
(“Stage III Standards”). A second level of even
more stringent emission standards will apply to new car
certifications beginning January 1, 2005 and to new car
registrations beginning January 1, 2006
(“Stage IV Standards”). The comparable light
commercial truck Stage III Standards and Stage IV
Standards come into effect one year later than the passenger car
requirements. The directive includes a framework that permits EU
member states to introduce fiscal incentives to promote early
compliance with these standards. The directive also introduced
on-board diagnostic requirements, more stringent evaporative
emission requirements, and in-service compliance testing and
recall provisions for emissions-related defects that occur in
the first five years or 80,000 kilometers of vehicle life
(extended to 100,000 kilometers in 2005). Failures of in-service
compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial
costs for related inspections or repairs. The Stage IV
Standards for diesel engines have proven technically difficult
and have precluded manufacturers from offering some products in
time to be eligible for government incentive programs. A related
EU directive was adopted, also in 1998, which establishes
standards for cleaner fuels beginning in 2000 and even cleaner
fuels in 2005. A further change to the Fuels Directive was
agreed in 2003, which reduced the maximum sulphur limit in
gasoline and diesel to 10 ppm — widespread market
availability is required from 2005 and mandated in 2009. The EU
is commencing a program in 2004 to determine the specifics for
further changes to vehicle emission standards. These are
expected to concentrate on diesel particulates and NOx from 2010.

Stationary Source Emissions
Control

—

U.S. Requirements.

In the United States, the Federal
Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to identify “hazardous
air pollutants” from various industries and promulgate
rules restricting their emission. The EPA has issued proposed or
final rules for a variety of industrial categories, several of
which would further regulate emissions from our
U.S. operations, including engine testing, automobile
surface coating and iron casting. These technology-based
standards could require certain of our facilities to
significantly reduce their air emissions. Additional programs
under the Clean Air Act, including Compliance Assurance
Monitoring and periodic monitoring could require our facilities
to install additional emission monitoring equipment. The cost to
us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be
substantial.

Motor Vehicle
Safety

—

U.S. Requirements.

The National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (the “Safety Act”)
regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the
United States in two primary ways. First, the Safety Act
prohibits the sale in the United States of any new vehicle or
equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle
safety standards established by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (the “Safety Administration”).
Meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly because the
standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle
weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards.
Second, the Safety Act requires that defects related to motor
vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. A
manufacturer also is obligated to recall vehicles if it
determines that they do not comply with a safety standard.
Should Ford or the Safety Administration determine that either a
safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain
of Ford’s vehicles, the costs of such recall campaigns
could be substantial. There were pending before the Safety
Administration approximately 10 investigations relating to
alleged safety defects or potential compliance issues in Ford
vehicles as of February 18, 2004.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

The Transportation Recall Enhancement,
Accountability, and Documentation Act (the “TREAD
Act”) was signed into law in November 2000. The TREAD Act
mandates that the Safety Administration establish several new
regulations including reporting requirements for motor vehicle
manufacturers on foreign recalls and certain information
received by the manufacturer that may assist the agency in the
identification of safety defects.

Foreign Requirements.

Canada, the EU, individual member
countries within the EU, and other countries in Europe, South
America and the Asia Pacific markets also have safety standards
applicable to motor vehicles and are likely to adopt additional
or more stringent standards in the future. In addition, the
European Automobile Manufacturers Association (of which Ford is
a member) (“EAMA”) made a voluntary commitment in June
2001 to introduce a range of safety measures to improve
pedestrian protection with the first phase starting in 2005 and
a second phase starting in 2010. Similar commitments were
subsequently made by the Japanese and Korean automobile
manufacturers associations. As a result, over 99% of cars and
small vans sold in Europe are covered by industry safety
commitments. The European Council of Ministers and the European
Parliament published a directive in December 2003 and a decision
in February 2004, which together lay down detailed technical
provisions for enforcement of the industry commitments (i.e.,
the application dates, the types of tests to be conducted the
test procedures to be used and the limit values to be achieved).

Motor Vehicle Fuel
Economy

—

U.S. Requirements.

Under federal law, vehicles must
meet minimum corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”)
standards set by the Safety Administration. A manufacturer is
subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails
to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into
account all available credits for the preceding three model
years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years.

The law established a passenger car CAFE standard
of 27.5 mpg for 1985 and later model years, which the
Safety Administration believes it has the authority to amend to
a level it determines to be the maximum feasible level. The
current CAFE standard applicable to light trucks is
20.7 mpg. In April 2003, the Safety Administration issued a
final rule increasing the CAFE standard for light trucks to
21.0 mpg for model year 2005; 21.6 mpg for model year 2006;
and 22.2 mpg for model year 2007. The Safety Administration
is currently seeking public comment on the possibility of
changing the framework of the light truck CAFE standards and/or
creating a new vehicle classification scheme. It is anticipated
that the Safety Administration will also start a rulemaking
process to increase CAFE standards for passenger cars in the
near future. There is renewed interest in CAFE in Congress, and
there is some potential for new legislation that avoids the
regulatory process and establishes new standards by statute.

Pressure to increase CAFE standards stems in part
from concerns over greenhouse gas emissions (“GHGs”),
which may affect the global climate. With respect to greenhouse
gas emissions, the Bush administration released a climate change
policy initiative in February 2002. The Bush administration plan
stresses voluntary measures and a cap-and-trade program to stem
the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. The Bush administration
also has launched the Freedom Car initiative, which supports
research for fuel cell-powered vehicles. Other nations continue
to press for United States ratification of the so-called
“Kyoto Protocol”, which would require the United
States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 7% below its 1990
levels. The Kyoto Protocol does not currently have the support
of either the Bush administration or Congress. Separately, a
petition was filed with the EPA requesting that it regulate
carbon dioxide (CO


, a greenhouse gas) emissions from
motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. The petitioners filed
suit in an effort to compel a formal response from the EPA. In
August 2003, EPA denied the petition on the grounds that
1) the Clean Air Act does not authorize EPA to regulate
GHGs, and 2) only the Safety Administration is authorized
to regulate fuel economy under the CAFE law. A number of states,
cities, and environmental groups have filed for review of
EPA’s decision in the United States Court of Appeals



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

for the District of Columbia Circuit. We
anticipate that a coalition of states and industry trade groups,
including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, will seek to
intervene in support of EPA’s decision.

In 2002, California enacted legislation
authorizing CARB to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new
motor vehicles beginning in the 2009 model year. Other states
are considering similar legislation. CO


is the
primary greenhouse gas emitted from motor vehicles, and the
amount of CO


emissions is proportional to the
amount of fuel used. It is possible that CARB may attempt to
implement the law by setting fleet average standards for vehicle
CO


emissions, although we believe this would be
prohibited by the federal fuel economy law. CARB is expected to
promulgate regulations in this area during the 2005 calendar
year.

In general, a continued increase in demand for
larger vehicles, coupled with a decline in demand for small and
middle-size vehicles, could jeopardize our long-term ability to
comply with CAFE standards. In addition, if significant
increases in CAFE standards for upcoming model years are imposed
beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if the EPA or
other agencies regulate CO


emissions from motor
vehicles, we might find it necessary to take various costly
actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales
volume and profits. For example, we might have to curtail
production of larger, family-size and luxury cars and full-size
light trucks, restrict offerings of engines and popular options,
and increase market support programs for our most fuel-efficient
cars and light trucks.

Foreign Requirements.

The EU also is a party to the Kyoto
Protocol and has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8%
below their 1990 levels during the 2008-2012 period. In December
1997, the European Council of Environment Ministers (the
“Environment Council”) reaffirmed its goal to reduce
average CO


emissions from new cars to
120 grams per kilometer by 2010 (at the latest) and invited
European motor vehicle manufacturers to negotiate further with
the European Commission on a satisfactory voluntary
environmental agreement to help achieve this goal. In October
1998, the EU agreed to support an environmental agreement with
EAMA (of which Ford is a member) on CO


emission
reductions from new passenger cars (the “Agreement”).
The Agreement establishes an emission target of 140 grams
of CO


per kilometer for the average of new cars sold
in the EU by the Association’s members in 2008. In
addition, the Agreement established an interim estimated target
range of 165-170 grams of CO


per kilometer for
the average of new cars sold in 2003. In 2004, EAMA and the
European Commission will review the potential for additional
CO


reductions, with a view to moving further toward
the EU’s objective. The Agreement assumes (among other
things) that no negative measures will be implemented against
diesel-fueled cars and the full availability of improved fuels
with low sulfur content in 2005. Average
CO


emissions of 140 grams per kilometer
for new passenger cars corresponds to a 25% reduction in average
CO


emissions compared to 1995.

The Environment Council requested the European
Commission to review in 2004 the EU’s progress toward
reaching the 120 gram target by 2010, and to implement annual
monitoring of the average CO


emissions from new
passenger cars and progress toward achievement of the objectives
for 2003. To date, the industry has made very good progress and
has met the interim target for 2003 (170-165g
CO


/km). The CO


target to be achieved for
2008 is 140g CO


/km.

In 1995, members of the German Automobile
Manufacturers Association (including Ford Werke AG) made a
voluntary pledge to increase by 2005 the average fuel economy of
new cars sold in Germany by 25% from 1990 levels, to make
regular reports on fuel consumption, and to increase industry
research and development efforts toward this end. The German
Automobile Manufacturers Association has reported that the
industry is on track to meet the pledge.

Other European countries are considering other
initiatives for reducing CO


emissions from
motor vehicles, including fiscal measures. For example, the UK
introduced vehicle excise duty and



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

company car taxation based on
CO


emissions in 2001. Taken together, such
proposals could have substantial adverse effects on our sales
volumes and profits in Europe.

End-of-Life Vehicle
Directive

— The European
Parliament has published a directive imposing an obligation on
motor vehicle manufacturers to take back end-of-life vehicles
with zero or negative value registered after July 1, 2002,
and to take back all other end-of-life vehicles with zero or
negative value as of January 1, 2007, with no cost to the
last owner. The directive also imposes requirements on the
proportion of the vehicle that may be disposed of in landfills
and the proportion that must be reused or recycled beginning in
2006, and bans the use of certain substances in vehicles
beginning with vehicles registered after July 2003. Member
states may apply these provisions prior to the dates mentioned
above.

Presently, there are numerous uncertainties
surrounding the form and implementation of the legislation in
different member states, especially regarding
manufacturers’ responsibilities and the resultant expenses
that may be incurred. As of December 31, 2003, the
following member states have adopted legislation to implement
the directive: The Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Austria,
Spain, Luxemburg, Italy, France, Ireland, Portugal and Sweden.
On April 16, 2003, ten countries signed an accession
agreement with the European Union to become new members of the
European Union on May 1, 2004. Of those states, only
Slovenia has implemented the ELV Directive and the others are
expected to implement the ELV Directive during 2004. Based on
the legislation that has been enacted to date, we have accrued
$103 million at December 31, 2003 for compliance costs
we expect to incur in respect of our existing vehicle
populations in those and other countries. Depending on the
legislation implemented in the ten member states that have not
yet enacted legislation and other circumstances, we may be
required to make additional accruals for the expected costs to
comply with these regulations. Although all of the member states
were required to enact legislation to implement the directive by
April 21, 2002, implementation of the directive has been
delayed in some countries and is now expected to be
substantially finalized during 2004. The directive should not,
however, result in significant cash expenditures before 2007.

Mobile Air
Conditioning

— The European
Commission adopted a draft regulation in August 2003 to phase
out the use of HFC-134a as a refrigerant in mobile air
conditioning units. The regulation would phase out the use of
this refrigerant between 2009 and 2013 and provide credits for
the early introduction of more leak-resistant air conditioning
systems and alternative refrigerants. These requirements may
increase the cost of vehicle air conditioning. This proposed
regulation has been referred to the European Council and the
European Parliament for their consideration.

European Chemicals
Policy

— The European
Commission adopted a draft regulation in October 2003 for a
single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of
certain chemicals (“REACH”). Final adoption of the
regulation is anticipated in 2005 to 2006 with compliance
required one to two years later. The regulation may accelerate
the ban or restriction on use of certain chemicals and
materials, which could increase the costs of certain products
and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts.

Pollution Control
Costs

— During the period
2004 through 2008, we expect to spend approximately
$430 million on our North American and European facilities
to comply with air and water pollution and hazardous waste
control standards, which are now in effect or are scheduled to
come into effect. Of this total, we estimate spending
approximately $122 million in 2004 and $120 million in
2005. Specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate
because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose,
making precise classification difficult.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Employment Data

The number of on-roll employees we employed at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was:

______________________

* Includes 7,973 in North America and 6,655 in Ford Europe

Our labor cost per hour worked for hourly
employees of Ford Motor Company (including employees assigned to
Visteon Corporation), excluding subsidiaries, for the following
years was:

The increase in benefits for our hourly employees
in 2003 over 2002 primarily reflected increased health care
costs, a one-time $3,000 lump sum payment to each of our U.S.
hourly employees upon the ratification of our new collective
bargaining agreement with the UAW (discussed below) and
increased pension expense.

As shown in the table above, from
December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003, the number of
people we employ increased approximately one percent. The 2003
number includes 14,628 employees that were added to our on-roll
employment numbers as a result of the consolidation of several
joint ventures that were deemed variable interest entities of
which we are the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN 46”). Excluding the effects of the
consolidation of these entities, the number of employees on-roll
would have declined 10,910 (or approximately three percent).

The employment numbers in the table above exclude
approximately 20,000 hourly employees of Ford who are
assigned to Visteon Corporation (“Visteon”), and,
pursuant to our collective bargaining agreement with the
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America (the “UAW”),
remain Ford employees. Visteon reimburses us for most of the
costs associated with these employees. For information regarding
agreements entered into with Visteon in December 2003 relating
to these employees and other matters, see Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations”.



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Substantially all of the hourly employees in our
Automotive operations in the United States are represented by
unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our
Automotive segment are represented by the UAW. Approximately 3%
of our salaried employees are represented by unions. Most hourly
employees and many non-management salaried employees of our
subsidiaries outside the United States also are represented by
unions.

We have entered into collective bargaining
agreements with the UAW and the National Automobile, Aerospace,
Transportation and General Workers Union of Canada
(“CAW”). The agreement with the UAW is scheduled to
expire on September 14, 2007 and the agreement with the CAW
is scheduled to expire on September 20, 2005. Among other
things, our agreements with the UAW and CAW provide for
guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and
provide for significant employment security. As a practical
matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to eliminate
product lines, close plants, and divest businesses.

Our new collective bargaining agreements are
consistent with our Revitalization Plan and provide us the
flexibility necessary to achieve the goals of that plan. This
flexibility includes the ability to reduce manufacturing
capacity by one million units in North America by closing four
assembly plants, improvement in our ability to bring Ford
employees assigned to Visteon back to fill plant openings for
which we otherwise would have to hire new employees and
increased operating flexibility. The return of Ford employees
will provide us the opportunity to fill labor requirements from
an experienced pool of UAW-represented employees.

In 2003, we negotiated new agreements with labor
unions in Mexico, France, Britain, Sweden, Australia, Taiwan,
Thailand, New Zealand, Belgium, and Brazil.

We are or will be negotiating new collective
bargaining agreements with labor unions in Mexico, Germany,
Vietnam, South Africa, Taiwan, Britain, Brazil and Venezuela
where current agreements will expire in 2004. We will also be
negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to cover
employees at our Volvo and Jaguar affiliates in 2004.

In recent years, we have not had significant work
stoppages at our facilities, but they have occurred in some of
our suppliers’ facilities. A work stoppage could occur as a
result of disputes under our collective bargaining agreements
with labor unions or in connection with negotiations of new
collective bargaining agreements, which, if protracted, could
adversely affect our business and results of operation. Work
stoppages at supplier facilities for labor or other reasons
could have similar consequences if alternate sources of
components are not readily available.

In addition to our collective bargaining
agreement with the UAW, in 1989 we entered into a separate
agreement with the UAW in connection with the sale of our
Dearborn steel-making operations to Rouge Industries, Inc., then
known as Marico Acquisition Corp. As part of the sale, employees
of our former steel-making operations became employees of Rouge
Steel Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rouge Industries,
Inc. (“Rouge”). Pursuant to the UAW agreement, we
agreed that Rouge hourly employees who, at the time of the sale,
were represented by the UAW and met certain seniority
requirements would be allowed to return to Ford to work in one
of our Rouge area plants if they were laid off by Rouge in the
future as a result of a layoff of unknown duration, a permanent
discontinuance of operations by Rouge or a sale of the assets of
Rouge. The right to return remains in effect with respect to
each eligible employee for a period equal to the employee’s
Ford seniority as of the date of the sale by Ford. Approximately
700 former Ford employees are covered by this agreement. On
October 23, 2003, Rouge filed a voluntary petition under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. On December 30,
2003, the bankruptcy court approved the sale of substantially
all of Rouge’s assets to Severstal North America, Inc.
(“Severstal”), which sale closed on January 30,
2004. On February 23, 2004, Ford entered into an agreement
with the UAW to provide opportunities to the employees of Rouge
who would have had the right to return to



Item 1. Business
(Continued)

Ford under the circumstances described above.
These employees were provided an option to (i) continue
employment with Severstal, begin receipt of Ford-UAW retirement
benefits if otherwise eligible, and waive any claims against
Ford relating to the prior agreement, (ii) continue in
employment with Severstal for a retention period before
termination, begin receipt of Ford-UAW retirement benefits while
employed by Severstal if otherwise eligible, and at termination
be eligible for an incentive benefit funded by Ford and waive
any claims against Ford relating to the prior agreement, or
(iii) terminate employment with Severstal, immediately
transfer to Ford employment, and waive any claims against Ford
relating to the prior agreement.

Engineering, Research and
Development

We conduct engineering, research and development
primarily to improve the performance (including fuel
efficiency), safety and customer satisfaction of our products,
and to develop new products. We also have staffs of scientists
who engage in basic research. We maintain extensive engineering,
research and design centers for these purposes, including large
centers in Dearborn, Michigan; Dunton, Gaydon and Whitley,
England; Gothenburg, Sweden; and Aachen and Merkenich, Germany.
Most of our engineering research and development relates to our
Automotive operating segment. In general, our engineering
activities that do not involve basic research or product
development, such as manufacturing engineering, are excluded
from our engineering, research and development charges discussed
below.

During the last three years, we recorded charges
to our consolidated income for engineering, research and
development we sponsored in the following amounts:
$7.5 billion (2003), $7.7 billion (2002), and
$7.3 billion (2001). Any customer-sponsored research and
development activities that we conduct are not material.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our principal properties include manufacturing
and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales
or administrative offices and engineering centers.

We own substantially all of our
U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities. These
facilities are situated in various sections of the country and
include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal
stamping plants, and transmission plants. Most of our
distribution centers are leased (approximately 40% of our total
square footage is owned). A substantial amount of our
warehousing is provided by third party providers under service
contracts. All of the warehouses that continue to be operated by
us are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly
facilities contain some warehousing space. Substantially all of
our sales offices are being leased. Approximately 90% of the
total square footage of our engineering centers and our
supplementary research and development space is owned by us.

In addition, we maintain and operate
manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution
centers, and engineering centers outside the United States. We
own substantially all of the manufacturing plants, assembly
facilities, and engineering centers. The majority of our parts
distribution centers outside of the United States are either
leased or provided by vendors under service contracts.



Item 2. Properties
(Continued)

The total number plants, distribution centers/
warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and
sales offices used by the Americas and International segments of
our Automotive sector are shown below.

Included in the number of plants used by the
International segment shown above are several plants that are
not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint
ventures that operate plants that support our Automotive sector.
The following are the most significant of these consolidated
joint ventures and the number of plants they own.



Item 2. Properties
(Continued)

In addition to the plants that we operate
directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures,
additional plants that support our Automotive sector are
operated by other, non-consolidated joint ventures of which we
are a partner. These additional plants are not included in the
number of plants shown in the table above. The most significant
of these joint ventures are:

•

AutoAlliance International
    (“AAI”)

— a 50/50
    joint venture with Mazda (of which we own 33.4%), which owns and
    operates as its principal business an automobile vehicle
    assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan. AAI currently produces
    the Mazda6 vehicle and will produce the next-generation Ford
    Mustang beginning later this year for the 2005 model year. Ford
    supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried
    labor requirements to AAI and AAI reimburses Ford for the full
    cost of that labor.

•

AutoAlliance (Thailand)
    (“AAT”)

— a 50/50
    joint venture with Mazda, which owns and operates a
    manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand. AAT produces the Ford
    Ranger, Ford Everest and Mazda B- Series pickup trucks for the
    Thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide
    (other than North America), in both built up and kit form.

•

Blue Diamond Truck, S de RL de
    CV

— a joint venture between
    Ford (49% partner) and International Truck and Engine
    Corporation (51% partner), a subsidiary of Navistar
    International Corporation (“Navistar”). Blue Diamond
    Truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light
    commercial trucks in Mexico and sells the vehicles to Ford
    and Navistar for their own independent distribution. Blue
    Diamond Truck commenced manufacturing operations in December
    2002, with its first products, the Ford F-650/750 trucks, being
    shipped in February 2003.



Item 2. Properties
(Continued)

•

Blue Diamond Parts,
    LLC

— a joint venture
    between Ford (51% partner) and Navistar (49% partner). Blue
    Diamond Parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution
    of various replacement parts.

The furniture, equipment and other physical
property owned by our Financial Services operations are not
material in relation to their total assets.

The facilities owned or leased by us or our
subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the
opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture
and assembly of our products.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Overview

Various legal actions, governmental
investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be
instituted or asserted in the future against us and our
subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out
of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental
regulations covering safety, emissions, and fuel economy;
financial services; employment-related matters; dealer,
supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual
property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; and
shareholder matters. Some of the pending legal actions are, or
purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters
involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or
other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands
for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs,
sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very
large expenditures. We regularly evaluate the expected outcome
of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. We
have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability
matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical
litigation payouts and trends. Expenses also have been accrued
for other litigation where losses are deemed probable. These
accruals are reflected in our financial statements.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

Following is a discussion of our significant
pending legal proceedings:

Product Liability Matters

Asbestos Matters

.
Asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive
components dating from the early 1900s. Along with other vehicle
manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation
and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for
injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with
certain Ford parts and other products containing asbestos.
Plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health
problems as a result of asbestos exposure either from
(i) component parts found in older vehicles
(ii) insulation or other asbestos products in our
facilities or (iii) asbestos aboard our former maritime
fleet. The majority of these cases have been filed in the state
courts.

Most of the asbestos litigation we face involves
mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of
our vehicles over the years. Also, in most asbestos litigation
we are not the sole defendant. We believe we are being more
aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously
targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. We are prepared to
defend these asbestos related cases and, with respect to the
cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the
scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that
mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of asbestos
related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos
formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles.

The extent of our financial exposure to asbestos
litigation remains very difficult to estimate. The majority of
our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages,
and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is
the jurisdictional minimum. The vast majority of these cases
involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases
exceeding 100. Our annual payout and related defense costs in
asbestos cases are increasing and may become substantial in the
future. The total number of claims pending against us as of
February 3, 2004 is approximately 41,500, compared with
approximately 25,000 as of February 2003. This, together with
the trends in civil litigation toward larger jury verdicts and
punitive damages awards, is expected to result in increased
payouts and defense costs in 2004.

The United States Congress continues to consider
proposals to reform asbestos litigation. The lead proposal would
create a trust fund from which eligible asbestos claimants would
be compensated and would preclude, during the life of the trust,
litigation in the United States based on exposure to asbestos.
The trust fund would be funded by asbestos defendants (including
us) and the insurance industry. These funds would be used to pay
eligible claimants (i.e., those who satisfy specific
medical criteria and can adequately demonstrate occupational
exposure to asbestos) according to a specified schedule. If
legislation is enacted creating such a trust fund, we would
likely be required to make substantial contributions to the fund
over a specified period of time, resulting in our incurring a
charge in the amount of the present value of such anticipated
contributions in the period in which the legislation becomes
effective. We cannot predict whether or in what form the
legislation will be enacted or the costs associated with such
enactment.

Romo v. Ford

.
During December, 1994, an action was filed in Superior Court in
Stanislaus County, California, alleging that manufacturing and
design defects in a 1978 Bronco caused the deaths of three
members of the plaintiff’s family. The trial in July 1999
resulted in a jury verdict ordering us to pay $290 million
in punitive damages and $5 million in compensatory damages.
On May 19, 2003, the United States Supreme Court granted
our petition for certiorari and remanded the case for
reconsideration in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in

State Farm v. Campbell,

which held that punitive
awards generally cannot exceed nine times the compensatory award
and that punitive awards cannot be based on out-of-state or
dissimilar conduct. On remand, the California appeals court gave
the plaintiffs the choice of either accepting a reduced punitive
damages award in



Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

the amount of approximately $24 million
(slightly less than five times the $5 million compensatory
damage award) or a new trial. The plaintiffs elected to accept
the reduced punitive damages award, which, with interest,
amounted to approximately $34.5 million.

Environmental Matters

General

. We have
received notices under various federal and state environmental
laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially
responsible party for the costs associated with remediating
numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal
sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural
resource damages. We also may have been a generator of hazardous
substances at a number of other sites. The amount of any such
costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be
substantial. The contingent losses that we expect to incur in
connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those
losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. However, for many
sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we
ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable
because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our
connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of
other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws
and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the
nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to
be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the
extent, duration, and success of remediation). As a result, we
are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of
costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible
in connection with these sites, although that total could be
substantial.

Cleveland Engine Plant Notice of
Violation

. Following an inspection by
the Cleveland Local Air Agency (which has been delegated
enforcement authority by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency (“Ohio EPA”)) our Cleveland Engine Plant
received a notice of violation in July 2003. The NOV alleged
violations of permit limitations for a maintenance paint spray
booth and engine testing operations. The potential violations
associated with the engine testing operations previously had
been reported to Ohio EPA. In December 2003, Ford resolved the
matter with Ohio EPA through an administrative settlement that
included a nominal penalty.

Cleveland Casting Plant Notice of
Violation

. Following an inspection by
the Cleveland Local Air Agency, our Cleveland Casting Plant
received a notice of violation in July 2002. The NOV alleged
that the Plant exceeded a number of its permit limitations,
modified its emission sources without first obtaining a permit
to install, did not operate certain process equipment according
to permit requirements, and did not conduct required emission
testing. In December 2003, Ford resolved the matter with Ohio
EPA through an administrative settlement that included a nominal
penalty.

Wixom Assembly Plant Notice of Violation
Regarding Air Emissions

. In September
2003, the Department of Environmental Quality (the
“DEQ”) notified Ford that it is commencing an
enforcement action related to several abatement equipment
malfunctions at our Wixom, Michigan Assembly Plant over the last
few years. The DEQ alleges that the plant did not properly
follow state air rules governing abatement equipment
malfunction. We are negotiating the terms of a malfunction
abatement plan with the DEQ that will be included in the
Plant’s operating permit. It is reasonably possible that
the DEQ could seek monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more for
these alleged violations.

Class Actions

The following are actions filed against us on
behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly
situated (i.e., purported class actions). In light of the
fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against
us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class
actions, the actions listed below are limited to those that
(i) have been certified as a class action by a court of
competent



Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

jurisdiction (and any additional purported class
actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a
certified case) and (ii) if resolved unfavorably to the
Company, would likely involve a significant cost.

Firestone
Class Actions

. Over 100
Firestone-related class actions have been filed against us, but
many have been consolidated into a single case now pending in
federal court in Indianapolis. Plaintiffs in these cases have
never been injured in an accident involving Firestone tires, but
they seek to recover, on behalf of all purchasers of Ford
Explorers with Firestone tires, the alleged diminution in
vehicle value caused by the use of those tires or by the alleged
instability of Explorers. Plaintiffs also seek punitive damages.

In the case pending in Indianapolis, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit has ruled that
the case cannot be maintained as a nationwide or statewide class
action. Plaintiffs are now focusing on some of the 23 cases
that have not yet been transferred to Indianapolis. These cases
were filed in state courts in Illinois, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina (2 cases), Wisconsin, Arkansas (2 cases),
California (5 cases), Louisiana, Ohio, Texas
(2 cases), Connecticut (5 cases), Florida, and
Tennessee. Some of these cases have been removed to federal
court and are likely to be transferred to the court in
Indianapolis, where they will be subject to the Seventh
Circuit’s order denying class certification. Some of these
cases, however, will remain in state court where the trial
courts will be free to reconsider the issue of class
certification. A state trial judge in Arkansas has dismissed one
of the cases pending in that state because plaintiffs suffered
no injury.

In the case filed in Illinois, and in one of the
cases filed in South Carolina, the trial courts have already
certified statewide classes. In those cases, however, plaintiffs
are not relying on any alleged defects in the Ford Explorer;
rather, they allege only that Firestone ATX and
Wilderness AT tires installed on Ford Explorers and Mercury
Mountaineers are defective. Since we have already agreed to
replace all of these tires, we are seeking to have these cases
dismissed as moot. We will also be seeking appellate review of
these rulings.

On June 20, 2003, the U.S. Court of
Appeals enjoined the prosecutions of state cases that purport to
represent a nationwide class on the basis that the court’s
prior decisions establish conclusively that these cases cannot
be tried as nationwide class actions. State cases that involve
only statewide classes are unaffected by the June 20
decision, but are likely to be stayed pending completion of a
settlement that Firestone has tentatively negotiated with the
plaintiffs. The proposed settlement would require plaintiffs to
dismiss all class action claims against Ford that are based on
alleged tire defects.

Paint
Class Actions

. A purported class
action in state court in Illinois asserts claims on behalf of
residents of all states except Texas who have experienced paint
peeling on most 1988 through 1997 model year Ford vehicles.
Plaintiffs allege fraud, breach of warranty, and violations of
consumer protection statutes, contending that their paint is
defective and susceptible to peeling because we did not use
spray primer between the high-build electrocoat
(“HBEC”) and the color coat. The lack of spray primer
allegedly causes the adhesion of the color coat to the HBEC to
deteriorate after extended exposure to ultraviolet radiation
from sunlight. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages
(in an amount to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and
to compensate for alleged diminution in value), punitive
damages, attorneys’ fees and interest. On
September 15, 2003, the court certified the class of owners
of 1989-96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint
peeling (all states except Texas). We will seek leave to appeal
this order.

A second purported class action, filed in Texas
state court, involving essentially the same allegations was
settled for a nominal amount following reversal by the Texas
Court of Appeals of the trial court’s order certifying a
class.

Ford/Citibank Visa
Class Action

. Four purported
nationwide class actions and two purported statewide class
actions are pending against us in connection with the June 1997
announcement of the termination of the Ford/Citibank credit card
rebate program; Citibank is also a defendant in some



Item 3. Legal Proceedings
(Continued)

of these actions. The actions allege damages in
an amount up to $3,500 for each cardholder who obtained a
Ford/Citibank credit card in reliance on the rebate program and
who is precluded from accumulating discounts toward the purchase
or lease of new Ford vehicles after December 1997 as a result of
the termination of the rebate program. Plaintiffs contend that
defendants deceptively breached their contract by unilaterally
terminating the program, that defendants have been unjustly
enriched as a result of the interest charges and fees collected
from cardholders, and further, that defendants conspired to
deprive plaintiffs of the benefits of their credit card
agreement. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, or
alternatively, reinstatement of the rebate program, and punitive
damages, costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees.

The four purported nationwide class actions are
pending in state courts in Alabama, Illinois, New York, and
Washington, and the purported statewide class actions are
pending in California state courts. The Alabama court has
conditionally certified a class consisting of Alabama residents.

Crown Victoria Police Interceptor
Class Actions

. A total of
23 purported class actions have been filed on behalf of
government entities that own Ford Crown Victoria Police
Interceptors, alleging that the vehicles are susceptible to fuel
leaks and fires when struck from the rear at high speed. Twenty
of the actions have been consolidated into a Multi District
Litigation (“MDL”) proceeding in the
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio. The
remaining actions are pending in Illinois (2 cases) and
California. Five of the cases purport to represent a nationwide
class; the other cases purport to represent statewide classes.
The complaints seek a recall of the affected vehicles, an
injunction, compensatory and punitive damages and other relief.
A state court in Illinois has certified a state-wide class of
all municipalities in the state of Illinois that own 1992-2002
Police Interceptor vehicles.

Six additional purported class actions relating
to non-police Ford Crown Victoria vehicles, with similar
allegations and demands for relief, have been filed in Arkansas,
Illinois, Ohio, California, Florida, and Texas. The Arkansas and
Ohio cases purport to represent a nationwide class; the others
purport to represent owners in the relevant state.

F-150 Radiator
Class Actions

. Three purported
class actions are pending alleging that the Company defrauded
purchasers of approximately 400,000 1999-2001 F-150 trucks by
falsely representing that certain option packages included
“upgraded” radiators. In one case, in state court in
Texas, the trial court has certified a nationwide class of all
purchasers of 2000 and 2001 F-150 trucks with heavy duty or
trailer packages. We are appealing that ruling to the Texas
Court of Appeals. Cases in South Carolina and California purport
to represent statewide classes. Prior to the filing of these
suits, we implemented a program that gives affected customers a
choice of $100 cash, a $500 coupon, or installation of an
upgraded radiator. However, plaintiffs’ are alleging that
the program should cover additional vehicles, that they should
be reimbursed for loss of use of the vehicle while the radiators
are being replaced, and that they are entitled to attorney fees.

Hydroboost Truck Brake
Class Action

. A purported class
action was filed on August 2, 2002 in state court in
Oklahoma on behalf of all purchasers of 1999 through 2002 model
year F-250, F-350, F-450, and F-550 Ford Super Duty Trucks and
2002 Excursions with hydroboost hydraulic braking systems. The
complaint alleges that these trucks are unsafe because they
suffer diminished power assist to the steering when the driver
is simultaneously braking and steering. The complaint alleges
breach of warranty and fraud, and seeks the cost of retrofitting
the trucks to eliminate the alleged danger, compensation for
diminished resale value, and other relief. On January 19,
2004, the court granted plaintiff’s motion to certify a
nationwide class, and agreed to stay proceedings while we
appeal. The Safety Administration investigated a similar issue
and closed the investigation, finding that “diminished
steering assist while braking is present” in these trucks,
but that the “associated injury and property damage
incidents are so rare that they do not present a risk to vehicle
safety.”



ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

Not required.

ITEM 4A.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FORD

Our executive officers and their positions and
ages at March 1, 2004 unless otherwise noted, are shown in
the table below:

_______________

* Also Chair of the Environmental and Public Policy
Committee and the Office of the Chairman and Chief Executive
Committee and a member of the Finance Committee of the Board of
Directors.

**

Also a member of the Office of the Chairman and
    Chief Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.

All of the above officers, except those noted
below, have been employed by Ford or its subsidiaries in one or
more capacities during the past five years. Described below are
the positions (other than those with Ford or its subsidiaries)
held by those officers who have not been with Ford or its
subsidiaries for five years:

•

Mr. Gilmour previously served as Ford’s
    Chief Financial Officer from 1986 to 1987 and as a Vice Chairman
    from 1993 until his retirement after 34 years with Ford in
    1995. Mr. Gilmour also owns a Ford-franchised automotive
    dealership.

•

Mr. Blythe previously served in a number of
    senior strategic and financial positions with Ford from 1968
    until he left the Company in 1993. From 1993 until he rejoined
    Ford in his current



Item 4A.

Executive Officers of Ford
    (Continued)

position in 2003, Mr. Blythe served as a
    consultant to various clients, including the Ford family.

•

Mr. Laymon was Vice President, US and Canada
    Region and Director, Human Resources, Worldwide Regions, for
    Eastman Kodak Company from 1996 to 2000.

•

Mr. Ojakli served as Principal Deputy for
    Legislative Affairs for President Bush from December 2002 to
    2003, and was Deputy Assistant to the President from 2001 to
    2002. Prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the Policy
    Director and Chief of Staff to the Senate Republican Conference
    Secretary.

Under Ford’s By-Laws, the executive officers
are elected by the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of
the Board of Directors held for this purpose. Each officer is
elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or
as otherwise provided in the By-Laws.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR FORD’S COMMON STOCK AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York and
Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges in the United States and on
certain stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Germany, Switzerland
and the United Kingdom.

The table below shows the high and low sales
prices for our Common Stock and the dividends we paid per share
of Common and Class B Stock for each quarterly period in
2003 and 2002.

* New York Stock Exchange composite interday
prices as listed in the price history database available at
www.NYSEnet.com.

As of February 27, 2004, stockholders of
record of Ford included 192,725 holders of Common Stock (which
number does not include 19,834 former holders of old Ford Common
Stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our
recapitalization, known as the Value Enhancement Plan, which
became effective on August 9, 2000) and 103 holders of
Class B Stock.

We sold or issued shares of our Common Stock
during the past three years in private transactions that were
not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as
follows:

These shares were sold or issued in transactions
that were exempt from registration requirements because they
were private placements under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All of the shares issued in
2003, 2002 and 2001 were issued to various directors, officers
and other executives of the Company pursuant to their
compensation plans or agreements. The consideration we received
for these shares was determined to be at least equal to the
market value of the shares at the time of the transactions.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

The following table sets forth selected financial
data concerning Ford for each of the last five years (dollar
amounts in millions, except per share amounts). The data have
been reclassified for held-for-sale operations in 2003, which
are described in Note 3 of the Notes to Financial
Statements.



ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Generation of Revenue, Income and
Cash

Our Automotive sector’s revenue, income and
cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our
dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). Vehicles we
produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers
and generally are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale
recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and
shipped to our customers. This is not the case, however, with
respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car
companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or
vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management
evaluation vehicles). Vehicles sold to daily rental car
companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are
accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and
profits recognized over the term of the lease. When we sell the
vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the
difference, if any, between actual auction value and the
projected auction value. Therefore, except for the impact of the
daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase
option and those units placed into our own fleet, vehicle
production is closely linked with unit sales and revenue from
such sales.

Our Financial Services sector’s revenue is
generated primarily from interest on finance receivables,
including interest, net of certain deferred loan origination
costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and
such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using
the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases, net of
certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Income is
generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which
are interest and operating expenses.

Transactions between the Automotive and Financial
Services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. For
example, Ford Credit receives interest supplements and other
support cost payments from the Automotive sector in connection
with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it
sponsors. Ford Credit records these payments as revenue over the
term of the related finance receivable or operating lease. The
Automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing
incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments
(e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing
programs, as a reduction to revenue at the later of the date the
related vehicle sales are recorded or at the date the incentive
program is both approved and communicated.

Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting
Automotive Industry

Excess Capacity.

According to CSM Worldwide, an automotive research firm, in
2003, the automotive industry’s estimated global production
capacity for light vehicles (about 65 million units)
significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks
(about 53 million units). In North America and Europe, the
two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned
in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 14% and 17%,
respectively, in 2003. We expect that this condition will
continue for many years.

Pricing Pressure.

Excess capacity coupled with a proliferation of new products
being introduced in key segments by the industry will keep
pressure on manufacturers’ ability to increase prices on
their products. In addition, in recent years, Korean-based
manufacturers have been increasing the number of vehicles they
export for sale in the United States and other key markets, and
this has contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute,
to pricing pressure. In the United States, the reduction of real
prices for similarly contented vehicles accelerated in recent
years, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will
continue for some time to come. In Europe, the automotive
industry has experienced intense pricing pressure for several
years; in 2003, net pricing declined more in Europe than in the
United States. Net pricing is a measure of the combined effect



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

of changes in wholesale prices for vehicles sold
and marketing incentives incurred on those vehicles, while
excluding the effects of changes in unit sales volume and
foreign currency exchange rates.

Consumer Spending
Trends.

We expect, however, that a
decline in, or the inability to increase, vehicle prices could
be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their
propensity to purchase over time higher-end, more expensive
vehicles and/or vehicles with more features. Over the next
decade, in the United States, we expect that growth in spending
on vehicle mix and content will generally track the increase in
real GDP per capita. The benefits of this to revenue growth in
the automotive industry are significant. In the United States,
for example, consumers in the highest income bracket are buying
more often and more frequently buying upscale. We believe the
share of the premium brand segment in the U.S. automotive
industry will approach 13% by the end of this decade, compared
with about 10% to 11% presently. With our luxury brands (i.e.,
Lincoln, Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin), we believe
we are positioned well to take advantage of this trend.

Although growth in vehicle unit sales (i.e.,
volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade,
we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., North
America, Western Europe and Japan) will continue to be the
source of a substantial majority of global industry revenues
over the next decade. We also expect that the North American
market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for
the automotive industry in the world in the next decade.

Health Care Expenses.

In the United States, the average
annual percentage increase in health care prices we have
experienced in the last few years has been in the double digits.
In 2003, our health care expenses for United States employees
and retirees were $3.2 billion, with about
$2.2 billion attributable to retirees and the balance
attributable to active employees. Prescription drug costs is the
fastest growing segment of our health care expenses and
accounted for about one-third of our total United States health
care expenses in 2003.

Although we have taken measures to have employees
and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health
care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to
increase. For 2004, our trend assumptions for U.S. health
care expenses include an initial trend rate of 9% and a steady
state trend rate of 5% reached in 2010. These assumptions
include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take
to offset health care inflation, including further employee cost
sharing, administrative improvements and other efficiencies.

Trends and Strategies

Revenue Management.

To address the pricing pressure that exists in the automotive
industry, we have employed a customer-focused revenue management
strategy to maximize per unit revenue. This strategy is focused
on a disciplined approach to utilizing customer demand
data — available from many sources, including internet
hits, transaction data, customer leads, and research —
to help us develop and sell vehicles that more closely match
customer desires.

We believe our revenue management strategy has
contributed significantly to increases in our revenue per
vehicle sold for our Ford North America business unit of $724
and $284 for 2003 and 2002, respectively. (These amounts exclude
the incremental effect on revenue from the consolidation of
certain dealerships in 2003 related to FIN 46, discussed in
Note 13 of the Notes to Financial Statements).

Cost Reduction.

Given the difficult economic and operating environment described
herein, we continue to focus on reducing our cost structure.
During 2003, we reduced our costs by over $3 billion (at
constant volume, mix and exchange and excluding special items).
Cost reductions were realized in quality-related costs resulting
from fewer warranty claims, recalls and customer service
actions, as well as reduced manufacturing, engineering and
overhead costs. Lower product costs (which are comprised of
material and component costs for our vehicles) on carryover
vehicles



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

partially offset higher product costs for newly
introduced vehicles. Further cost efficiencies will be realized
as we continue to implement our Revitalization Plan.

Shared Technologies.

One of the strategies we are employing
to realize efficiencies in manufacturing, engineering and
product costs for new vehicles is the sharing of vehicle
platforms and components among various models and the re-use of
those platforms and components from one generation of a vehicle
model to the next.

Revitalization Plan Progress

In January 2002, we announced that through the
implementation of our Revitalization Plan, we expected to
improve our pre-tax profit excluding special items to
$7 billion by mid-decade, which we have defined as 2006. We
do not expect a linear progression to the target of
$7 billion of pre-tax profit excluding special items.

In 2004, we expect that the rate of profit
improvement will be less than what we have experienced over the
past couple of years. We are still about a year away from
introducing new products that are designed in a manner such that
the cost to produce them is appropriate in the current pricing
environment, and we are about two years away from having those
products in significant volume. In addition, as indicated above,
rising health care costs remain a concern for us.

We expect, however, to make progress in 2004, as
we will focus on significantly improving the performance of our
Ford Europe business unit, and filling our global product
pipeline with new product introductions, particularly in the
passenger car area. Further, as indicated above, we are
continuing our efforts to improve quality and our cost
structure. Overall, while conditions may slow our rate of
improvement in 2004, we believe we are on track to achieve our
goal of $7 billion in pre-tax profits, excluding special
items, by year-end 2006.

FULL-YEAR 2003 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The results of our continuing operations below
exclude the results of discontinued and held-for-sale
operations, which are described in Note 3 of the Notes to
Financial Statements.

Our worldwide net income was $495 million or
$0.27 per share of Common and Class B stock in 2003, up
$1.5 billion from a loss of $980 million or $0.55 per
share in 2002.

Results by business sector for 2003, 2002, and
2001 are shown below (in millions):

*

Related to adoption of FIN 46 in 2003 and
    the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 142 (see Notes 13 and 7, respectively, of the
    Notes to Financial Statements).



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

We established and communicated milestones for
2003. Our results against these milestones are listed below:

In the table above, we disclose our Automotive
income before income taxes excluding special items, which is not
a financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
(“GAAP”). We believe, however, that this measure is
useful to our investors because it excludes elements that we do
not consider to be indicative of our ongoing Automotive
operating activities. This income before income taxes excluding
special items measure is one of the metrics by which our
management evaluates the business and it provides investors with
a more relevant measure of the results generated by our ongoing
operations.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

The following table reconciles Automotive income
before income taxes excluding special items to Automotive

Income/(loss) before income taxes

(which includes special
items), the most directly comparable financial measure presented
in accordance with GAAP (in millions):

*

See Automotive Sector Results from
    Operations — 2003 Compared with 2002 for a discussion
    of special items.

The table below shows how we were able to
significantly exceed our 2003 cost performance milestone (in
billions):

*

At constant volume, mix and exchange and
    excluding special items.

The $1.6 billion in quality related cost
reductions resulted from fewer warranty claims, primarily on
2002 model year vehicles, as well as sharply lower recalls and
customers service actions. The $1.2 billion reduction in
manufacturing and engineering reflected ongoing efficiencies and
an intense effort to identify and eliminate waste. The
$1.4 billion reduction in overhead resulted from intensive
cost cutting and elimination of waste in areas such as
advertising and sales promotion, personnel costs, consulting,
travel and office supplies. Net product costs, which improved by
$400 million, include the net impact of higher costs on
newly introduced vehicles and the effect of ongoing cost
reductions on carryover vehicles.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

2003 Compared with 2002

Details of Automotive sector income/(loss) before
income taxes and income/(loss) before income taxes excluding
special items for 2003 and 2002 are shown below (in millions):

Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle
unit sales for 2003 and 2002 are shown below:

*

Includes rental repurchase and Company vehicles
    sold at auction and excludes new and used vehicle sales by our
    consolidated dealerships (consolidated beginning third quarter
    of 2003).



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Details of Automotive sector market share for
selected markets for 2003 and 2002 are shown below:

*

Excludes market share of our Premier Automotive
    Group brand vehicles (i.e. Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston
    Martin).

Americas Automotive Segment

Ford North America.

The decrease in income before income taxes for Ford North
    America included a charge of $1.6 billion related to
    agreements reached with Visteon Corporation
    (“Visteon”) in the fourth quarter of 2003. Visteon is
    our largest supplier and is the primary supplier of many
    critical components for several of our vehicle lines. The
    agreements primarily address pricing and sourcing arrangements
    between Ford and Visteon, as well as costs related to
    approximately 20,000 UAW-represented Ford employees assigned to
    Visteon.

The principal terms of these agreements include:

*

See Note 19 of the Notes to Financial
    Statements for more information regarding this aspect of the
    agreement with Visteon.

In addition to the impact of the Visteon
    agreements, the reduction in income reflected lower vehicle unit
    sales, unfavorable net pricing and unfavorable exchange rates
    partially offset by cost reductions and favorable product mix.
    Lower vehicle unit sales reflected the absence of a dealer stock
    change in 2003 compared with a dealer stock build in 2002 and
    lower market share. Lower market share reflected the
    discontinuation of low-margin models (Mercury Cougar, Ford



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Escort, Mercury Villager, Lincoln Continental and
    Ford Explorer Sport) and a planned reduction in sales to daily
    rental car companies.

Ford South America.

The improvement in earnings reflected the non-recurrence of the
    adverse effects of currency devaluation in Brazil and Argentina,
    increased market share primarily due to market acceptance of two
    new models, the Ford Fiesta and EcoSport, and continuing
    improvement in the business structure.

International Automotive Segment

Other Automotive

The improvement in loss before income taxes for
Other Automotive (which in 2003 represents primarily interest
income and expense including realized and unrealized gains and
losses on cash and marketable securities) reflected primarily
the non-recurrence of a charge of $570 million in 2002
related to the sale of non-core businesses, primarily Kwik-Fit
Holdings Ltd (“Kwik-Fit”). The improvement was
partially offset by the non-recurrence of gains in cash and
marketable securities in 2002, which reflected declining
interest rates in 2002.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

2002 Compared with 2001

Details of Automotive sector income/(loss) before
income taxes and income/(loss) before income taxes excluding
special items for 2002 and 2001 are shown below
(in millions):

Details of Automotive sector sales and vehicle
unit sales for 2002 and 2001 are shown below:

*

Includes rental repurchase and Company vehicles
    sold at auction.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Details of Automotive sector market share for
selected markets for 2002 and 2001 are shown below:

*

Excludes market share of our Premier Automotive
    Group brand vehicles (i.e. Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston
    Martin).

Americas Automotive Segment

Ford North America.

The improvement in earnings reflected primarily the
    non-recurrence of the 2001 asset impairments and other charges
    ($4.5 billion) largely related to our Revitalization Plan,
    as well as the non-recurrence of costs related to our 2001
    Firestone tire replacement action (about $2 billion).
    Additionally, profits improved due to achievement of our 2002
    milestone to reduce non-product costs by $2 billion and the
    replenishment of dealer stocks in the United States, which were
    unusually low at year-end 2001. These improvements were
    partially offset by increased product-related costs and lower
    market share. The decline in market share reflected a number of
    factors, including an increase in the number of new competitive
    product offerings and our discontinuation of four vehicle lines
    (Mercury Cougar, Mercury Villager, Lincoln Continental and most
    models of the Ford Escort) in the second half of 2002.

Ford South America.

The reduced loss reflected primarily the non-recurrence of the
    2001 asset impairments and other one-time charges
    ($848 million) largely related to our Revitalization Plan.
    The results also reflected the adverse effects of currency
    devaluation, partially offset by continuing improvement in
    operating costs. The increase in our market share in Brazil
    reflected market acceptance of our new Ford Fiesta model and
    strong sales performance.

International Automotive Segment



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Other Automotive

The increased loss reflected primarily the loss
on sale of Kwik-fit and other non-core businesses, offset
partially by improved net interest costs.

FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

2003 Compared with 2002

Details of the full year Financial Services
Sector income/(loss) before income taxes for 2003 and 2002 are
shown below (in millions):

*

Includes amortization expense related to
    intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz.

Ford Credit

The increase in income before income taxes of
$1.1 billion primarily reflected a lower provision for
credit losses and the net favorable market valuation of
derivative instruments and associated exposures. The impact of
lower average net receivables was a partial offset.

The provision for credit losses for the full year
of 2003 was $2.0 billion, down $1.0 billion from a
year ago, reflecting primarily the non-recurrence of an increase
in Ford Credit’s allowance for credit losses in 2002 and
lower credit losses.

Ford Credit reviews its business performance from
several perspectives, including:

Ford Credit analyzes its financial performance
primarily on an on-balance sheet and managed basis. It retains
interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet
securitization transactions, and with respect to subordinated
retained interests, has credit risk. As a result, it evaluates
credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed, as well as
an on-balance sheet basis. In contrast, Ford Credit does not
have the same financial interest in the performance of
receivables sold through whole-loan sale transactions because it
retains no interests in those receivables and, therefore, has no
credit risk with respect to them. Accordingly, Ford Credit
generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only
to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection
activities.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Ford Credit’s finance receivables, net of
allowance for credit losses, and net investment in operating
leases for our on-balance sheet, securitized off-balance sheet,
managed and serviced portfolios are shown below
(in billions):

*

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, Ford
    Credit’s retained interests in sold receivables were
    $13.0 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. For
    more information regarding these retained interests, see
    “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial
    Services Sector”.

On-Balance Sheet Receivables.

On-balance sheet finance receivables
and net investment in operating leases, net of allowance for
credit losses, increased $6.2 billion or 5% from a year
ago. The increase primarily reflected the receivables that were
recorded on our balance sheet (“reacquired
receivables”) as a result of the accounting consolidation
of FCAR Owner Trust (“FCAR”) in May 2003 (discussed in
Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements) and the impact
related to changes in currency exchange rates. The increase was
offset partially by the impact of lower lease and retail
placement volumes and receivables sold in off-balance sheet
securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions.

At December 31, 2003, on-balance sheet
retail receivables included $14.3 billion that were sold
for legal purposes to Ford Credit-sponsored special purpose
entities (“SPE”) that sell asset-backed securities to
FCAR and are available only for repayment of asset-backed
commercial paper issued by FCAR, other securitization investors
and other participants. These receivables are not available to
pay the obligations of Ford Credit or the claims of Ford
Credit’s creditors.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Securitized Off-Balance Sheet Receivables.

Total securitized off-balance sheet
receivables decreased $22 billion or 31% from a year ago.
This decrease primarily reflected the reacquired receivables
resulting from the consolidation of FCAR, now reported on our
balance sheet, the slower pace of securitizations and the
increased use of whole-loan sale transactions.

Managed Receivables.

Total managed receivables decreased
$15.8 billion or 8% from a year ago, the decrease primarily
reflected lower retail installment finance receivables resulting
from lower placement volumes, lower net investment in operating
leases, and the sale of U.S. retail finance receivables in
whole-loan sale transactions. Net investment in operating leases
was lower, reflecting a de-emphasis of leasing in Ford’s
marketing programs.

The following table shows actual credit losses
net of recoveries, which are referred to as net credit losses,
for Ford Credit’s worldwide on-balance sheet, reacquired,
securitized off-balance sheet and managed receivables, for the
various categories of financing during the periods indicated.
The loss-to-receivables ratios, which equal net credit losses
divided by the average amount of net receivables outstanding for
the period, are shown for the on-balance sheet and managed
portfolios.

*

Ford Credit believes that the use of the
    on-balance sheet loss-to-receivables ratio that includes the net
    credit losses on reacquired receivables is useful to investors
    because it provides a more complete presentation of Ford
    Credit’s on-balance sheet credit loss performance.

The decrease in net credit losses for our
on-balance sheet portfolio primarily reflected improved
performance in our U.S. commercial receivables and lower
on-balance sheet receivables at Ford



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

Credit’s subsidiaries Triad Financial
Corporation and Fairlane Credit, LLC. These declines were offset
partially by a charge-off of accounts delinquent for over
120 days, which resulted in recognition of
$106 million of credit losses, primarily in our European
wholesale receivables portfolio. The charge off was a result of
our European operations adopting the practice of our North
American operations of charging off all accounts more than
120 days delinquent. The on-balance sheet
loss-to-receivables ratio of 1.67% was down from 1.72%. The
improvement in the loss-to-receivables ratio reflected lower
credit losses and the retention of securitized receivables on
Ford Credit’s balance sheet.

Shown below is an analysis of Ford Credit’s
allowance for credit losses related to finance receivables and
operating leases for the years ended December 31 (dollar
amounts in billions):

*

Includes net investment in operating leases.

The decrease in the allowance for credit losses
of $200 million reflected primarily the charge-off of
$106 million for accounts delinquent over 120 days
primarily in our European wholesale receivables portfolio and
lower losses in the commercial and liquidating Fairlane Credit
portfolios.

The following table summarizes the activity
related to off-balance sheet sales of receivables reported as
revenues for the periods indicated (in millions except for
ratios):

The increase in investment and other income
related to sales of receivables of $155 million or 6%
compared with 2002, reflected higher excess spread and other
income offset partially by lower net gains. Higher excess spread
and other income resulted from higher levels of outstanding
securitized receivables in 2002. Lower gains in 2003 resulted
from lower amounts of finance receivables sold, down about
$19 billion compared with 2002, reflecting lower funding
requirements.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Excluding the effects of the whole-loan sale
transactions, which totaled $10.4 billion in the 2002-2003
period, off-balance sheet securitization income was unchanged
compared with 2002.

Sales of finance receivables through off-balance
sheet securitizations have the impact on earnings of
recalendarizing and reclassifying net financing margin (i.e.,
financing revenue less interest expense) and credit losses
related to the sold receivables, compared with how they would
have been reported if Ford Credit continued to report the sold
receivables on-balance sheet and funded them through
asset-backed financings. Recalendarization effects occur
initially when the gain or loss on sales of receivables is
recognized in the period the receivables are sold. Over the life
of the securitization transaction, Ford Credit recognizes excess
spread, interest income from retained securities, servicing fees
and other receivable sale income.

In addition, credit losses related to the
off-balance sheet securitized receivables are included in the
initial and ongoing valuation of Ford Credit’s
interest-only strip asset (see “Off-balance Sheet
Arrangements — Sales of Receivables by Ford
Credit” for definition) and do not impact the

Provision
for credit and insurance losses

on the income statement and
they do not influence the assessment of the adequacy of the

Allowance for credit losses

for Ford Credit’s
on-balance sheet receivables.

Therefore, over the life of each off-balance
sheet securitization transaction, the gain or loss on sale of
receivables, excess spread, interest income from retained
securities, servicing fees and other receivable sale income is
equal to the net financing margin and credit losses that would
have been reported had Ford Credit reported the receivables on
its balance sheet and funded them through asset-backed
financings.

The net impact of off-balance sheet
securitizations on Ford Credit’s earnings in a given period
will vary depending on the amount and type of receivables sold
and the timing of the transactions in the current period and the
preceding two to three year period, as well as the interest rate
environment at the time the finance receivables were originated
and securitized.

The following table shows, on an analytical
basis, the earnings impact of receivables sold in off-balance
sheet securitizations had Ford Credit reported them as
on-balance sheet and funded them through asset-backed financing
for the periods indicated (in millions):

In 2003, the impact on earnings of reporting the
sold receivables as off-balance sheet securitizations was
$39 million higher than had these transactions been
structured as on-balance sheet securitizations. This difference
results from recalendarization effects caused by gain-on-sale
accounting requirements, as discussed above.

This effect will fluctuate as the amount of
receivables sold in Ford Credit’s off-balance sheet
securitizations increases or decreases over time. In a steady
state of securitization activity, the difference between
reporting securtitizations on- or off-balance sheet in a
particular year approaches



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

zero. While the difference in earnings impact
between on- or off-balance sheet securitizations is minimal,
this funding source has provided us with significant borrowing
cost savings compared with unsecured debt and funding
flexibility in a difficult economic environment.

Hertz

The improvement of $28 million in income
before income taxes reflected strong cost performance and
improved leisure vehicle rental demand, partially offset by
lower pricing.

Other Financial Services

The improvement of $125 million in income
before income taxes reflected primarily the non-recurrence of a
charge incurred in 2002 related to the write-down of our
investment in several airplane and telecommunications equipment
leases.

2002 Compared with 2001

Details of the full year Financial Services
Sector income/(loss) before income taxes for 2002 and 2001 are
shown below (in millions):

*

Includes amortization expense related to
    intangibles recognized upon consolidation of Hertz.

Ford Credit

The increase in income before income taxes of
$471 million reflected primarily a lower provision for
credit losses and the decrease in the net unfavorable market
valuation of derivative instruments and associated exposures.
The impact of lower net financing margins was a partial offset.

Hertz

The improvement in income before income taxes
reflected primarily an improved car rental pricing environment
and lower costs.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Automotive Sector

Our strategy is to ensure we have sufficient
funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the
business cycle. The key elements of this strategy include
maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from
operating-related activities, having a long-dated debt maturity
profile, and maintaining committed credit facilities.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Gross Cash.

Automotive gross cash includes cash
and cash equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and
assets contained in a short-term Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association trust (“VEBA”) (see below). Gross cash as
of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is detailed below (in
billions):

*

As part of our investment strategy, we engage in
    securities lending to improve the returns on our cash
    portfolios. See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements
    for additional discussion on securities lending.

In managing our business, we classify changes in
gross cash into four categories: operating-related (both
including and excluding pension/long-term VEBA contributions and
tax refunds), capital transactions with the Financial Services
sector, acquisitions and divestitures and other (primarily
financing related). Our key metric for operating-related cash
flow is cash flow before pension and long-term VEBA
contributions and tax refunds. This metric best represents the
ability of our Automotive operations to generate cash. We
believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below,
which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance
with GAAP, is useful to investors because it includes cash flow
elements that we consider to be related to our operating
activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in

Cash flows from operating activities before securities
trading,

the most directly comparable GAAP financial
measure. Changes in Automotive gross cash for the last three
years are summarized below (in billions):

(a)

Primarily dividends, capital contributions,
    loans, and loan repayments.

(b)  See
Note 13 of the Notes to Financial Statements for a
discussion of the adoption of FIN 46.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Total 2003 operating-related cash flows before
funded pension plan and long-term VEBA contributions and tax
refunds was $100 million positive reflecting profits and
other operating-related changes, offset partially by increased
net capital spending and growth in year-end inventory. The
$600 million increase in capital expenditures in 2003 from
2002, reflected primarily increased spending on new products
consistent with our product-led revitalization plan. Other
operating-related changes, primarily cash tax payments and
timing differences between expense or revenue recognition and
the corresponding cash payments for costs such as health care,
pension, marketing, and warranty, improved our cash flows by
$2.9 billion in 2003.

Including funded pension plan and long-term VEBA
contributions and tax refunds, operating-related cash flows were
an outflow of $3.0 billion. Contributions to our worldwide
funded pension plans totaled $2.8 billion in 2003, compared
to approximately $500 million in 2002. In 2003, we also
contributed $2 billion to a long-term VEBA trust used to
pre-fund a portion of Ford’s other postretirement benefits
liability. This contribution is in addition to the
$4 billion contributed to our short-term VEBA, which we
include in gross cash. These are assets invested similar to our
cash portfolio and are available to fund certain employee
benefit obligations in the near term. The $2 billion of
long-term VEBA assets are invested similar to our pension fund
assets. The assets of the long-term VEBA are not included in our
gross cash, but are dedicated to pay longer-term healthcare
obligations.

Capital transactions with the Financial Services
sector of $3.6 billion in 2003 reflected primarily higher
dividends paid by Ford Credit, which in turn reflected improved
profitability and asset reductions at Ford Credit. In addition,
dividends of $204 million from the Financial Services
sector in 2003 are reflected in the table above as divestitures
because they resulted from the sale by Ford Credit of its Axus
vehicle fleet leasing unit.

Shown in the table below is a reconciliation
between financial statement

Cash flows from operating
activities before securities trading

and operating-related
cash flows, (calculated as shown in the table above), for the
last three years (in billions):

(a)

As shown in our Sector Statement of Cash Flows
    for the Automotive sector.

(b)

Primarily payables and receivables between the
    sectors in the normal course of business, as shown in our Sector
    Statement of Cash Flows for the Automotive sector.

Debt and Net Cash.

At December 31, 2003, our Automotive sector had total
senior debt of $15.0 billion compared with
$14.2 billion a year ago. The debt increase primarily
reflects the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46
(“FIN 46”), which requires the consolidation of
certain entities. For a discussion of the adoption of
FIN 46, see Note 13 of the Notes to Financial
Statements. At December 31, 2003, our Automotive sector had
net cash (defined as gross cash less total senior debt) of
$10.9 billion, compared with $11.1 billion and
$3.9 billion at the end of 2002 and 2001, respectively.

In 2003, we retired about $900 million of
relatively high-cost debt through open-market repurchases and
through redemptions. We expect to repurchase a similar amount in
2004.

At December 31, 2003, Ford Motor Company
Capital Trust I and Ford Motor Company Capital
Trust II (the “Trusts”) together had outstanding
an aggregate $5.7 billion of trust preferred securities.
The dividend and liquidation preferences on these securities are
paid from interest and principal



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

payments on our junior subordinated debentures
held by the Trusts in an aggregate principal amount of
$5.8 billion. Effective July 1, 2003, the junior
subordinated debentures are classified as

Subordinated
debt

on our balance sheet as the result of the adoption of
FIN 46. This reclassification did not impact the status of
the holders of our senior debt relative to holders of the
subordinated debentures or the trust preferred securities. For
additional discussions related to the Trusts, see Notes 12
and 15 of the Notes to Financial Statements.

On January 2, 2004, we redeemed our
outstanding junior subordinated debentures held by Trust I.
This had the effect of reducing total Automotive subordinated
debt by $688 million. The debt is classified as

Debt
payable within one year

on our balance sheet as of
December 31, 2003.

The weighted average maturity of our total
long-term debt (including subordinated debt), substantially all
of which is fixed-rate debt, is approximately 26 years with
about $2.7 billion maturing by December 31, 2008. The
weighted average maturity of total debt (long-term and
short-term including subordinated debt) is approximately
25 years. For additional information on debt, see
Note 12 of the Notes to Financial Statements.

Credit Facilities.

At December 31, 2003, the Automotive sector had
$7.0 billion of contractually committed credit agreements
with various banks, of which $6.9 billion were available
for use. For further discussion of our committed credit
facilities, see Note 12 of the Notes to Financial
Statements.

Financial Services Sector

Ford Credit

Debt and Cash.

Ford
Credit’s total debt was $149.7 billion at
December 31, 2003, up $9.4 billion compared with a
year ago, reflecting primarily asset-backed commercial paper
that was previously off-balance sheet debt of FCAR. Ford
Credit’s outstanding unsecured commercial paper at
December 31, 2003 totaled $6.1 billion, down
$2.1 billion compared with a year ago and down
$36.2 billion compared with year-end 2000. The reduction
since 2000 primarily reflects the lowering of Ford Credit’s
short-term credit ratings over that time period as discussed
below under “Debt Ratings”. The lower short-term
credit rating has made Ford Credit’s commercial paper
largely ineligible for investment by money market mutual funds
under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended. To partially offset this reduction in Ford
Credit’s outstanding unsecured commercial paper,
asset-backed commercial paper issued through Ford Credit’s
FCAR and Motown Notes

SM

programs increased
substantially beginning in 2001.

At December 31, 2003, Ford Credit had cash
and cash equivalents of $15.7 billion. In the normal course
of its funding activities, Ford Credit may generate more
proceeds than are necessary for its immediate funding needs.
These excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid
investments, provide liquidity for Ford Credit’s short-term
funding obligations and give it flexibility in the use of its
other funding programs.

Funding.

Ford Credit
requires substantial funding in the normal course of business.
Ford Credit’s funding requirements are driven mainly by the
need to (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and
vehicle leases to support the sale of Ford products, which are
influenced by Ford-sponsored special financing and leasing
programs that are available exclusively through Ford Credit,
(ii) provide vehicle inventory and capital financing for
Ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations.

Ford Credit’s funding sources include debt
issuances, sales of receivables in securitizations, and bank
borrowings. Debt issuance consists of short- and long-term
unsecured debt, placed directly by Ford Credit or through
securities dealers or underwriters in the United States and
international capital markets, and reaches both retail and
institutional investors. Ford Credit issues commercial



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

paper in the United States, Europe, Canada and
other international markets. In addition to its commercial paper
programs, Ford Credit also obtains short-term funding from the
sale of floating rate demand notes, which may be redeemed at any
time at the option of the holder thereof without restriction. At
December 31, 2003, the principal amount outstanding of such
notes was $7.3 billion. Ford Credit does not hold reserves
specifically to fund the payment of the demand notes or any
other short-term funding obligation. Ford Credit’s policy
is to have sufficient cash and cash equivalents, unused
committed bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper issuer
capacity, securitizable assets, and back-up credit facilities to
provide liquidity for all of its short-term funding obligations.

During 2003, Ford Credit continued to meet a
significant portion of its funding requirements by selling
receivables in securitizations because of the stability of the
market for asset-backed securities, their lower relative costs
given our credit ratings (as described below), and the diversity
of funding sources that they provide. Securitized funding (both
on- and off-balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a
percent of total managed receivables was as follows as of the
end of each of the last three years: 2003 — 25%,
2002 — 27%, 2001 — 23%.

The following table illustrates Ford
Credit’s term public funding issuances for 2002 and 2003
and its planned issuances for 2004 (in billions):

*

Reflects new issuance; excludes asset sales to
    bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper issuers, whole-loan
    sales, and other structured financings.

The cost of both debt and funding in
securitizations is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark
interest rate, such as interest rates paid on U.
S. Treasury securities of similar maturities. Over the last
two years, spreads on Ford Credit’s securitized funding
have fluctuated between 35 and 86 basis points above
comparable U.S. Treasury securities, while Ford
Credit’s unsecured long-term debt funding spreads have
fluctuated between 186 and 662 basis points above
comparable U.S. Treasury securities. In 2003, Ford
Credit’s unsecured term-debt spreads fluctuated between 186
and 638 basis points above comparable U.S. Treasury
securities, with an average spread of 341 basis points and
a year-end spread of 186 basis points above comparable
U.S. Treasury securities.

Ford Credit also continued its program to sell
retail installment sale contracts in transactions where it
retains no interest and thus no exposure to the sold contracts.
These transactions, which we refer to as “whole-loan sale
transactions,” provide liquidity by enabling Ford Credit to
reduce its managed receivables and its need for funding to
support those receivables. In 2003, Ford Credit sold
$5.5 billion of retail finance receivables through
whole-loan sales.

As a result of Ford Credit’s funding
strategy and the reduction in its managed receivables, the
lowering of its credit ratings over the past three years has not
had a material impact on Ford Credit’s ability to fund its
operations, although lower credit ratings have contributed to an
increase in its overall borrowing costs. In 2003, its funding
strategy continued to focus on maintaining liquidity and access
to diversified funding sources that are cost effective. Any
further lowering of its credit ratings may increase Ford
Credit’s borrowing costs and potentially constrain its
funding sources. This could likely cause Ford Credit to increase
its use of securitization or other sources of liquidity or to
reduce



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

its managed receivables. Ford Credit’s
ability to sell its receivables may be affected by the following
factors: the amount and credit quality of receivables available
to sell, the performance of receivables sold in previous
transactions, general demand for the type of receivables Ford
Credit offers, market capacity for Ford Credit-sponsored
investments, accounting and regulatory changes, Ford
Credit’s debt ratings and Ford Credit’s ability to
maintain back-up liquidity facilities for certain securitization
programs. If as a result of any of these or other factors, the
cost of securitized funding significantly increased or
securitized funding were no longer available to Ford Credit, its
liquidity would be adversely impacted.

For additional funding and to maintain liquidity,
Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries (including FCE)
have contractually committed credit facilities with financial
institutions that totaled approximately $7.7 billion at
December 31, 2003. Approximately $1.0 billion of the
total facilities were in use at December 31, 2003.
Additionally, at December 31, 2003, banks provided
$18.6 billion of contractually committed liquidity
facilities that supported two asset-backed commercial paper
programs established by Ford Credit. Ford Credit also has
entered into agreements with several bank-sponsored asset-backed
commercial paper issuers under which such issuers in the
aggregate are committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford
Credit’s option, up to $12.8 billion of receivables.
For further discussion of these facilities and agreements, see
Note 12 of the Notes to Financial Statements.

Leverage

. Ford
Credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make
various business decisions, including establishing pricing for
retail, wholesale and lease financing, and assessing its
appropriate capital structure. Ford Credit calculates leverage
on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the
following formulas:

The following table illustrates the calculation
of Ford Credit’s financial statement leverage
(in billions):

At December 31, 2003, Ford Credit’s
financial statement leverage was 12.0 to 1, compared with 10.3
to 1 a year ago. This increase in leverage resulted primarily
from the accounting consolidation of FCAR resulting in
$9.0 billion of FCAR’s debt reported on Ford
Credit’s balance sheet at December 31, 2003.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

The following table illustrates the calculation
of Ford Credit’s managed leverage (in billions):

Ford Credit believes that managed leverage, which
is the result of adjustments to its financial statement
leverage, is useful to its investors because it reflects the way
Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit retains interests
in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization
transactions, and with respect to subordinated retained
interests, is exposed to credit risk. Accordingly, Ford Credit
considers securitization as an alternative source of funding and
evaluates credit losses, receivables and leverage on a managed
as well as a financial statement basis. Ford Credit also deducts
cash and cash equivalents because they generally correspond to
excess debt beyond the amount required to support its
operations. In addition, Ford Credit adds its minority interests
to its financial statement equity, because all of the debt of
such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. SFAS
No. 133 requires Ford Credit to make fair value adjustments
to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact
of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with
its term debt issuances and securitizations. SFAS No. 133
adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and
securitized funding obligations based on changes in market
interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt funding
obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes
the impact of SFAS No. 133 on both the numerator and
denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes
in market interest rates. Accordingly, the managed leverage
measure provides Ford Credit’s investors with meaningful
information regarding management’s decision-making
processes.

Ford Credit’s managed leverage strategy
involves establishing a leverage level that it believes reflects
the risk characteristics of its underlying assets. In
establishing a target leverage level, Ford Credit considers the
characteristics of the receivables in its managed portfolio and
the prevailing market conditions.

At December 31, 2003, Ford Credit’s
managed leverage was 13.0 to 1, compared with 12.8 to 1 a year
ago. Ford Credit’s dividend policy is based in part on its
strategy to maintain managed leverage at the lower end of the
13-14 to 1 range. As a result of improved profitability and
lower managed receivable levels, Ford Credit paid dividends of
$3.7 billion in 2003.

Hertz

Hertz requires funding for the acquisition of
revenue earning equipment, which consists of vehicles and
industrial and construction equipment. Hertz purchases this
equipment in accordance with the terms of agreements negotiated
with automobile and equipment manufacturers. The financing
requirements of Hertz are seasonal and are mainly explained by
the seasonality of the travel industry. Hertz’ fleet size,
and its related financing requirements, generally peak in the
summer



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

months, and decline during the winter months.
Hertz accesses the global capital markets to meet its funding
needs.

Hertz maintains unsecured domestic and foreign
commercial paper programs and a secured domestic commercial
paper program to cover short-term funding needs, and also draws
from bank lines, as a normal business practice, to fund
international needs. Hertz also is active in the domestic
medium-term and long-term debt markets.

Hertz has an asset-backed securitization program
for its domestic car rental fleet to reduce its borrowing costs
and enhance its financing resources. As of December 31,
2003, $723 million was outstanding under this program.

At December 31, 2003, Hertz had committed
credit facilities totaling $2.8 billion. Of this amount,
$1.3 billion represented global and other committed credit
facilities ($810 million of which are available through
June 30, 2008 and $488 million of which have various
maturities of up to four years); $500 million consisted of
a revolving credit line provided by Ford, which currently
expires in June 2005; $215 million consisted of
asset-backed Letters of Credit, and $814 million consisted
of 364-day asset-backed commercial paper facilities.

Total Company

Stockholders’
Equity

. Our stockholders’ equity
was $11.7 billion at December 31, 2003, up
$6.1 billion compared with the level at December 31,
2002. The increase in stockholders’ equity reflected
primarily the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments
and a reduction in our minimum pension liability. For additional
discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments, see
Notes 1 and 16 of the Notes to Financial Statements.

Pension

. We sponsor
defined benefit pension plans throughout the world. Pursuant to
our collective bargaining agreement with the UAW, under which
most of our U.S. hourly employees are covered, we are
contractually committed to provide specified levels of pension
benefits to retirees covered by the contract. These obligations
give rise to significant expenses that are highly dependent on
assumptions discussed in Note 19 of the Notes to our
Financial Statements and under “Critical Accounting
Estimates” below. Based on present assumptions and benefit
agreements, we expect our 2004 worldwide pre-tax pension expense
to be about $865 million, which is about $80 million
lower than it was in 2003.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Included in our Stockholders’ Equity was a
$3.5 billion adjustment for our worldwide minimum pension
liability as of December 31 2003. This was
$2.2 billion better than the 2002 adjustment due to the
improvement in the funded status of our worldwide pension plans
(i.e., the amount by which the present value of projected
benefit obligations exceeded the market value of pension plan
assets) as of December 31, 2003, compared with
December 31, 2002. The primary factor that contributed to
the improvement in the funded status was an increase in the
actual return on plan assets for 2003, partially offset by
decreases in the discount rates at December 31, 2003 used
to calculate the present value of benefit obligations, in each
case compared with the prior year. These changes are shown in
the table below:

Our pension fund assets consist principally of
investments in equities and in government and other fixed income
securities. For our major U.S. pension funds, the target
asset allocation is 70% equities and 30% fixed income
securities. On December 31, 2003, the market value of our
U.S. pension fund assets was less than the projected
benefit obligation (calculated using a discount rate of 6.25%,
which is reduced from 6.75% used at year-end 2002) by
$3.4 billion for our U.S. plans (of which
$2 billion relates to our U.S. funded plans). For
non-U.S. plans, the shortfall as of December 31, 2003,
was $8.2 billion, for a total worldwide shortfall of
$11.7 billion. Pension funding obligations and strategies
are highly dependent on investment returns, discount rates,
actuarial assumptions, and benefit levels (which can be
contractually specified, such as those under the Ford-UAW
Retirement Plan). If these assumptions were to remain unchanged,
we project that we would not have a legal requirement to fund
our major U.S. pension plans before 2009. However, we
review our pension assumptions regularly and we do from time to
time make contributions beyond those legally required. For
example, in 2003 we made over $2 billion of discretionary
cash contributions to our U.S. pension funds. Further,
after giving effect to these contributions, based on current
interest rates and on our return assumptions and assuming no
additional contributions, we do not expect to be required to pay
any variable-rate premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation before 2009.

For information related to our expenses and
liabilities with respect to health care benefits we provide to
our employees and retirees, see “Overview — Key
Economic Factors and Trends Affecting Automotive
Industry — Health Care Expenses” above and
“Critical Accounting Estimates — Other
Postretirement Benefits (Retiree Health Care and Life
Insurance)” below.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Debt Ratings.

Our
short- and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating
agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations (“NRSROs”) by the Securities and
Exchange Commission:

In several markets, locally recognized rating
agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by
the rating agency of the credit risk associated with particular
securities we issue, based on information provided by us and
other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy,
sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each
rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company
risk, and therefore ratings should be evaluated independently
for each rating agency. Lower credit ratings generally result in
higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets.
The NRSROs have indicated that our lower ratings since 2001 are
primarily a reflection of the rating agencies’ concerns
regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining
market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing
pressure and rising healthcare costs.

The following chart summarizes Ford’s*
credit ratings and the outlook assigned by the NRSROs since 2000:

*

Moody’s presently rates Ford Credit’s
    long-term debt at “A3”, and Hertz’s long-term
    debt at “Baa2”. DBRS has assigned Hertz’s
    long-term debt a negative trend. All other Nov. 2003 ratings and
    outlooks shown apply equally to Ford, Ford Credit, and Hertz.

**

NRSRO designation granted on February 27,

The ratings and trend assigned by DBRS have been
in effect since April 2003 and were confirmed by DBRS in
December 2003. The ratings and outlooks assigned by Fitch and
Moody’s have been in effect since January 2002 and were
affirmed or confirmed by each firm in November 2003. The ratings
and outlook assigned by S&P have been in effect since
November 2003, when S&P lowered the long-term credit ratings
on Ford, Ford Credit and Hertz to “BBB-” with a stable
outlook from “BBB” with a negative outlook, and
lowered the short-term credit rating to “A-3” from
“A-2”.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

OUTLOOK

2004 Financial Milestones

We have set and communicated certain planning
assumptions, operational metrics and financial milestones for
2004, shown below:

(a)

At constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding
    special items.

(b)

Excluding Pension/Long-Term VEBA contributions
    and tax refunds. (See “Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Gross Cash” for calculation of this
    non-GAAP measure).

(c)

Excluding special items.

2004 is the first year in which we have provided
financial milestones for our individual Automotive business
units. Our confidence in achieving the Automotive profit target
in total is greater than it is for any of the individual
business units.

Based on the planning assumptions set forth above
and achievement of the foregoing milestones, we expect 2004
earnings per share from continuing operations excluding special
items to range from $1.20 to $1.30 for the full-year. Our
present estimate of special items for 2004 is a pre-tax charge
of up to $300 million, or about $0.11 per share on an after
tax basis, consisting of the balance of the Ford Europe
restructuring charge and future expected losses with respect to
dispositions of remaining non-core businesses.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Risk Factors

Statements included or incorporated by reference
herein may constitute “forward looking statements”
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks,
uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those stated, including, without
limitation:

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We consider an accounting estimate to be critical
if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make
assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time
the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the
estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to
period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could
have used in the current period, would have a material impact on
our financial condition or results of operations.

Management has discussed the development and
selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit
Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has
reviewed the foregoing disclosure. In addition, there are other
items within our financial statements that



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

require estimation, but are not deemed critical
as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other
items could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Warranty and Additional Service
Actions

See Notes 1 and 23 of the Notes to our
Financial Statements for more information regarding costs and
assumptions for warranties and additional service actions.

Nature of Estimates Required.

The estimated warranty and additional
service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of
sale. Estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding
the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model
year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience
may exist. In addition, the number and magnitude of additional
service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to
additional service actions, are taken into consideration. Due to
the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated
factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net
income.

Assumptions and Approach Used.

Our estimate of warranty and
additional service action obligations is reevaluated on a
quarterly basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any
given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies
upon long-term historical averages until sufficient data are
available. As actual experience becomes available, it is used to
modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is
within the range of likely outcomes. Resulting balances are then
compared with present spending rates to ensure that the accruals
are adequate to meet expected future obligations.

Pensions

See Note 19 of the Notes to Financial
Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions
for employee retirement benefits.

Nature of Estimates Required.

The measurement of our pension
obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of
assumptions used by our actuaries. These assumptions include
estimates of the present value of projected future pension
payments to all plan participants, taking into consideration the
likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases
and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect
on the amount and timing of future contributions. The plan
trustee conducts an independent valuation of the fair value of
pension plan assets.

Assumptions and Approach Used.

The assumptions used in developing the
required estimates include the following key factors:

We base the discount rate assumption on
investment yields available at year-end on corporate long-term
bonds rated AA. Our inflation assumption is based on an
evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth
assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, the
near-term outlook and assumed inflation. The expected return on
plan assets assumption reflects asset allocation, investment
strategy and the views of investment managers and of other large
pension plan sponsors regarding the market. Retirement and
mortality rates are based primarily on actual plan experience.
The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions are
accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore,
generally affect our recognized expense in such future periods.

Sensitivity Analysis.

Sensitivity of our worldwide pension
funded status and stockholders’ equity to the indicated
increase/ decrease in the discount rate assumption is shown
below. Although



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

not an estimate, we’ve also included
sensitivity around the actual return on pension assets. Note
that these sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to
the base conditions at year-end 2003. They also may not be
additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors
simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual
sensitivities shown. The December 31, 2003 funded status is
affected by December 31, 2003 assumptions. Pension expense
for 2003 is affected by December 31, 2002
assumptions

.

The impact on our funded status, equity and
U.S. pension expense from a one percentage point change in
these assumptions is shown below (in millions).

The foregoing indicates that changes in the
discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect
on the funded status of our pension plans and Stockholders’
Equity. As stated above, we base the discount rate assumption on
investment yields available at year-end on corporate long-term
bonds rated AA. We cannot predict these bond yields or
investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate
whether adjustments to our Stockholders’ Equity for minimum
pension liability in subsequent years will be significant.

Other Postretirement Benefits (Retiree Health
Care and Life Insurance)

See Note 19 of the Notes to Financial
Statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions
for other postretirement benefits.

Nature of Estimates Required.

The measurement of our obligations,
costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement
benefits (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires
that we make use of estimates of the present value of the
projected future payments to all participants, taking into
consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as
health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic
experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of
future payments.

Assumptions and Approach Used.

The assumptions used in developing the
required estimates include the following key factors:

Our health care cost trend assumptions are
developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook,
efficiencies and other cost-mitigation actions (including
further employee cost sharing, administrative improvements and
other efficiencies) and an assessment of likely long-term
trends. We base the discount rate assumption on investment
yields available at year-end on corporate long-term bonds rated
AA. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of
external market indicators. The salary growth assumptions
reflect our long-term actual experience, the near-term outlook
and assumed inflation. The expected return on plan assets
reflects asset allocation, investment strategy and the views of
investment managers and of other large pension plan sponsors
regarding the market. Retirement and mortality rates are based
primarily on actual plan experience.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(Continued)

The effects of actual results differing from our
assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods
and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in such
future periods.

Sensitivity Analysis.

The December 31, 2003
postretirement obligation is affected by December 31, 2003
assumptions. Postretirement benefit expense for 2003 is affected
by December 31, 2002 assumptions. Note that these
sensitivities may be asymmetric, and are specific to the base
conditions at year-end 2003. They also may not be additive, so
the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be
calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The
effect of the indicated increase/ decrease in selected
assumptions is shown below (in millions):

Allowance for Credit Losses

See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial
Statements for more information regarding our allowance for
credit losses.

The allowance for credit losses is our estimate
of the probable credit losses related to impaired finance
receivables and operating leases as of the date of the financial
statements. We exercise judgment in estimating this amount
because credit losses vary substantially over time, and
estimating probable losses requires a number of assumptions
about matters that are uncertain.

Nature of Estimates
Required.

We estimate the probable
credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and
operating leases by evaluating several different factors using
econometric models. These factors include historical credit loss
trends, the credit quality of our present portfolio, trends in
historical and projected used vehicle values, and general
economic measures.

Assumptions and Approach Used.

We use the factors listed above to
make projections of two key assumptions:

•

Frequency — the percentage of finance
    receivables and operating leases that we expect to default over
    a period of time, measured principally by the repossession rate
    (the ratio of the number of vehicles repossessed in a time
    period, typically a year, divided by the average number of
    accounts outstanding in the same time period); and

•

Loss severity — the expected difference
    between the amount a customer owes us when we charge off the
    finance contract and the amount we receive, net of expenses,
    from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries
    from the customer.

We use these assumptions to assist us in setting
our allowance for credit losses.

Sensitivity
Analysis.

We believe the present level
of our allowance for credit losses adequately reflects probable
losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating
leases. However, changes in the assumptions used to derive
frequency and severity would have an impact on the allowance for
credit losses. Over the past twenty years, repossession rates
for our U.S. retail and lease portfolio have varied between
2% and 4%.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

The effect of the indicated increase/ decrease in
the assumptions is shown below for Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury
brand vehicles in the U.S. (in millions):

Changes in our assumptions affect

Provision
for credit losses

on our income statement and the

Allowance for credit and insurance losses

on our balance
sheet.

Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject
to Operating Leases — Financial Services
Sector

See Note 9 of the Notes to Financial
Statements for more information regarding accumulated
depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases.

Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to
operating leases reflects the cumulative amount of depreciation
that has been recorded to date, reducing the value of the leased
vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original
acquisition value to their estimated residual value (estimated
proceeds from the sale of the vehicle at auction at the end of
the lease term).

Nature of Estimates
Required.

Each operating lease in our
portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a
customer. When we purchase the lease, we establish an estimated
residual value for the vehicle. We exercise judgment in
estimating the residual value because future market values of
used vehicles are difficult to predict. We depreciate leased
vehicles on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value.

We monitor residual value performance by vehicle
line each month and we review the adequacy of our accumulated
depreciation on a quarterly basis. If we believe that the
residual values for our vehicles have decreased, we revise
depreciation for the affected vehicles to ensure that our net
investment in the operating leases (equal to our acquisition
value of the vehicles minus accumulated depreciation) will be
reduced to our revised estimate of residual value at the end of
the lease term. Such adjustments to depreciation expense are
recorded over the remaining life of the affected vehicles in our
portfolio.

Each lease customer has the option to buy the
leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle
to the dealer. The dealer has the option to purchase the vehicle
at the contractual lease-end value or return it to us. For
returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from
the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our most recent
estimate of the residual value for the vehicle. Over the last
five years, about 60% to 70% of Ford Credit North America’s
operating lease vehicles have been returned to us.

Assumptions and Approach Used.

Our accumulated depreciation on
operating leases is based on the following assumptions:

•

Residual value: the market value of the vehicles
    when we sell them at the end of the lease.

•

Return rates: the percentage of vehicles that
    will be returned to us at lease end.

We estimate residual values and return rates
using econometric models. These models use historical auction
values, historical return rates for our leased vehicles,
industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and
vehicle quality data.

Sensitivity Analysis.

The largest impact of changes in
assumptions is on Ford Credit’s U.S. retail operating
leases of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles. If future
auction values for



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

all of the Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury vehicles in
our U.S. operating lease portfolio at year-end 2003 were to
decrease by $100 per unit from our present estimates, the total
impact would be to increase our depreciation on these vehicles
by about $55 million, which would be charged to
depreciation expense during the 2004 through 2006 period so that
the net investment in operating leases at the end of the lease
term for these vehicles is equal to the revised residual value.
Similarly, if future return rates for our existing portfolio of
Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles in the U.S. were to
increase by one percentage point from our present estimates, the
total impact would be to increase our depreciation on these
vehicles by about $10 million in the 2004 through 2006
period. Adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on
operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet as

Net investment in operating leases

and on the income
statement in the

Depreciation

line, in each case under
the Financial Services sector.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have entered into various arrangements not
reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably
likely to have a current or future effect on our financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. These
include guarantees, sales of receivables by Ford Credit, and
variable interest entities, each of which is discussed below.

Guarantees

(See also
Note 23 of the Notes to Financial Statements)

Occasionally, we guarantee debt and lease
obligations of joint venture entities and other third parties
with which we do business to support their growth. As of
December 31, 2003, our maximum potential exposure under
these guarantees was $465 million.

In the ordinary course of business, we also
execute contracts involving indemnifications standard in the
industry and indemnifications specific to a transaction. These
indemnifications include claims for any of the following:
environmental, tax, and shareholder matters; intellectual
property rights; governmental regulations and employment-related
matters; financial matters; and dealer, supplier, and other
commercial contractual relationships. Performance under these
indemnities would generally be triggered by a breach of terms of
the contract or by a third party claim.

Sales of Receivables by Ford Credit

Securitizations

Ford Credit regularly uses securitization to fund
its operations. Ford Credit securitizes its receivables because
the highly-liquid and efficient securitization market provides
Ford Credit with a cost-effective source of funding, compared
with unsecured debt given Ford Credit’s present debt
ratings. In a typical securitization transaction, Ford Credit
sells a pool of finance receivables to a wholly-owned,
bankruptcy-remote special purpose subsidiary that establishes an
SPE, usually a trust, and transfers the receivables to the SPE
in exchange for proceeds from interest-bearing securities,
commonly called asset-backed securities, that are issued by the
SPE and are secured by future collections on the sold
receivables. Following the transfer of the sold receivables to
the SPE, and assuming compliance with SFAS No. 140
(discussed below), the receivables are no longer assets of Ford
Credit and the sold receivables no longer appear on our balance
sheet. The securities issued by the SPE are structured into
senior and subordinated classes. The senior classes have
priority over the subordinated classes in receiving collections
from the receivables and may also benefit from other
enhancements such as over-collateralization and cash reserve
funds. These securities generally are rated by independent
rating agencies and sold in public offerings or in private
transactions.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

The following chart diagrams Ford Credit’s
typical securitization transaction:

Consistent with conventional practices in the
securitization industry, Ford Credit uses SPEs in securitization
transactions to achieve isolation of the sold receivables for
the benefit of securitization investors. Most of the SPEs used
in Ford Credit’s securitization transactions are classified
as qualifying special purpose entities consistent with the
requirements of SFAS No. 140,

Accounting for Transfers
and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities,

because of the nature of the assets held by
these entities and the limited nature of their activities. When
these accounting rules are met, the sold receivables are removed
from our balance sheet. The use of SPEs in the typical
securitization structure shown above, along with the use of
various forms of credit and payment enhancements to reduce the
risk of loss (as discussed below), allows the SPE to issue
senior asset-backed securities that generally receive the
highest short-term debt ratings and among the highest long-term
debt ratings, thereby providing Ford Credit with a
cost-effective source of funding.

Ford Credit also sponsors one securitization
program, FCAR Owner Trust (“FCAR”), which does not use
qualifying SPEs under SFAS No. 140. In the second quarter
of 2003, Ford Credit purchased a portion of equity interests in
FCAR from unaffiliated parties for $175 million. As a
result of this transaction, FCAR’s assets, liabilities and
results of operations were consolidated into our financial
statements. The effects of this transaction are more fully
described in Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements.

Ford Credit selects receivables at random for
securitization transactions using selection criteria designed
for the specific transaction. The selection criteria are
generally based on factors such as location of the obligor,
contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing
program, and the type of financed vehicle. In general, the
criteria also require receivables to be active and in good
standing.

Ford Credit often retains interests in the
securitized receivables. The retained interests may include
senior and subordinated securities, undivided interests in
wholesale receivables, restricted cash held for the benefit of
the SPEs (for example, a reserve fund) and interest-only strips.
Subordinated securities represent lower rated classes of
securities issued by the SPEs. Restricted cash is funded
initially by a small portion of proceeds from the sale of
receivables that may be used to pay principal and interest to
SPE investors and, after investors are fully paid, remaining
cash is returned to Ford Credit. Interest-only strips, also
referred to as excess spread, represent the right to receive
collections on the sold finance receivables in excess of amounts
needed by the SPE to pay interest and principal to investors,
servicing fees and other required payments. Because Ford Credit
typically retains the most subordinated interests in the SPE,
including subordinated securities, the right to receive excess
spread (interest-only strip) and any residual or remainder
interests of the SPE after all asset-backed securities are
repaid in full, Ford Credit’s retained interests will be
the first to absorb any credit losses on the sold receivables.
Because the credit enhancements are structured to protect the
holders of the senior asset-backed securities in highly stressed
receivables performance scenarios, the impact of credit losses
in the pool of sold receivables will likely be limited to Ford
Credit’s retained interests in terms of the timing and
total amount of excess spread it receives. Therefore, related to
receivables sold in securitizations, Ford Credit retains credit
risk up to the



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

amount of subordinated interests it retains in
securitizations. If the receivables were not securitized, Ford
Credit’s risk related to credit losses would not be limited
as it is in securitizations.

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the total
outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by Ford Credit
in securitizations was $49.4 billion and
$71.4 billion, respectively. This decrease reflected
primarily the reacquired receivables following consolidation of
FCAR now reported on our balance sheet (as discussed above) and
the slower pace of securitizations in 2003. At December 31,
2003 and 2002, Ford Credit’s retained interests in such
sold receivables were $13.0 billion and $17.6 billion,
respectively.

Ford Credit has no obligation to repurchase any
sold receivable that becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise
is in default. The holders of the asset-backed securities have
no recourse to Ford Credit or its other assets for credit losses
on the sold receivables and have no ability to require Ford
Credit to repurchase their securities. Ford Credit does not
guarantee any securities issued by SPEs. However, as is
customary in asset-backed securitization transactions, Ford
Credit, as the seller of the finance receivables to the SPE and
servicer of such receivables, is obligated to provide certain
support obligations. These include indemnification of the SPE
and its trustees, the requirement to repurchase receivables that
do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially
modified by the servicer, the obligation to sell additional
receivables in certain transactions and the advancing of
interest payment short falls. Based on its experience, Ford
Credit does not expect to make any indemnification payments. In
2003, Ford Credit was not required to repurchase any sold
receivables due to their failure to meet eligibility criteria
and the principal amount of receivables repurchased due to
servicer modifications was about $193 million for all
retail securitization programs.

Risks to Future Sales of Receivables

Some of Ford Credit’s securitization
programs contain structural features that could prevent further
funding if the credit losses or delinquencies on a pool of sold
receivables or on Ford Credit’s overall managed portfolio
exceed specified levels or if payment rates on or amounts of
wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels. Ford
Credit does not expect that any of these features will have a
material adverse impact on its ability to securitize
receivables. In addition, Ford Credit’s ability to sell its
receivables may be affected by the following factors: the amount
and credit quality of receivables available to sell, the
performance of receivables sold in previous transactions,
general demand for the type of receivables Ford Credit offers,
market capacity for Ford Credit-sponsored investments,
accounting and regulatory changes, Ford Credit’s debt
ratings and Ford Credit’s ability to maintain back-up
liquidity facilities for certain securitization programs. If as
a result of any of these or other factors, the cost of
securitized funding significantly increased or securitized
funding were no longer available to Ford Credit, Ford
Credit’s operations, financial condition and liquidity
would be adversely impacted.

Variable Interest Entities

Automotive

The Automotive Sector has several investments in
other joint ventures deemed to be VIEs where we are not the
primary beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with our
interests in these entities are based primarily on ownership
percentages. Our maximum exposure to any potential losses,
should they occur, associated with these VIEs is limited to our
equity investments and, where applicable, receivables due from
the VIEs (approximately $104 million).



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Continued)

Financial Services

Ford Credit has investments in certain joint
ventures deemed to be VIEs where Ford Credit is not the primary
beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with Ford
Credit’s interest in these entities are based primarily on
ownership percentages. Ford Credit’s maximum exposure to
any potential losses, should they occur, associated with these
VIEs is limited to Ford Credit’s equity investments, which
at December 31, 2003 totaled approximately
$125 million.

AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We are party to many contractual obligations
involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of
these are debt obligations incurred by our Financial Services
sector. In addition, as part of our normal business practices,
we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain
raw materials, components and services. These arrangements may
contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. We
enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of
these materials and services. “Purchase obligations”
are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or
services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company
and that specify all significant terms.

The “Other long-term liabilities”
category includes only liabilities on our balance sheet that
have a definite pay-out scheme or are not contingent on a
subsequent event. Other long-term liabilities at
December 31, 2003 represent a payment obligation related to
a prior acquisition.

The table below summarizes our contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003 (in millions):

For additional information to our long-term debt
and operating lease obligations, see Notes 12 and 23 in the
Notes to Financial Statements.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
    MARKET RISK

OVERVIEW

We are exposed to a variety of market and other
risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as
risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and
specific asset risks.

These risks affect our Automotive and Financial
Services sectors differently. We monitor and manage these
exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management
program, which includes regular reports to a central management
committee, the Global Risk Management Committee
(“GRMC”). The GRMC is chaired by our Chief Financial
Officer, and its members include our Treasurer, our Controller,
and the Chief Financial Officer of Ford Credit.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

Our Automotive and Financial Services sectors are
exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to
curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and
future financial obligations as they come due because funding
sources may be reduced or become unavailable. We, and
particularly Ford Credit, which comprises substantially all of
our Financial Services sector, maintain plans for sources of
funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or
business cycles. As discussed in greater detail in the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, our funding sources include
commercial paper, term debt, sales of receivables through
securitization transactions, committed lines of credit from
major banks, and other sources.

We are exposed to a variety of insurable risks,
such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and
employee injury. We protect against these risks through a
combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial
insurance designed to protect against events that could generate
significant losses.

Direct responsibility for the execution of our
market risk management strategies resides with our
Treasurer’s Office and is governed by written polices and
procedures. Separation of duties is maintained between the
development and authorization of derivative trades, the
transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows.
Regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls
are in place and that they remain effective. In addition, our
market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these
exposures are reviewed by the GRMC and the Audit Committee of
our Board of Directors.

In accordance with corporate risk management
policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward
contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain
exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates).
Derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we
do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. In
certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in
unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net
income; examples of economic hedges that do not qualify for
hedge accounting include foreign currency hedges of
inter-company loans and dividends and certain transactions that
use multiple hedge instruments. For additional information on
our derivatives, see Note 16 of the Notes to Financial
Statements.

The market and counterparty risks of our
Automotive sector and Ford Credit are discussed and quantified
below.

AUTOMOTIVE MARKET AND COUNTERPARTY
RISK

Our Automotive sector frequently has expenditures
and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the
following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and
production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends,
and investments in foreign operations. These expenditures and
receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. We also
are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our
Automotive sector and changes in interest rates.

Foreign currency risk and commodity risk are
measured and quantified using a model to calculate the changes
in the value of currency and commodity derivative instruments
along with the underlying cash flow exposures being hedged. Our
earnings at risk (“EaR”) methodology is based on
transaction exposure, which is the exposure that results from
specific transactions and our related hedging activity. The
methodology does not attempt to assess the impact on financial
statement earnings resulting from non-cash flow risks (e.g.,
re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets or
liabilities through income). EaR at a 95% confidence level is
the methodology used to calculate the potential impact to
pre-tax earnings related to cash flows in foreign currency and
commodity price exposure. The calculation of EaR combines
current market data with historical data on volatilities and
correlations of the underlying currencies or commodity prices.
This creates



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

hypothetical prices based on the calculation of
historical volatilities. The EaR methodology includes our
hedging actions as well as the underlying exposures over a
twelve-month period.

Foreign Currency Risk

Foreign currency risk is the possibility that our
financial results could be better or worse than planned because
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We use derivative
instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to
assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm
commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In our hedging
actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by
corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward
contracts and options).

At December 31, 2003, the EaR from foreign
currency exchange movements over the next twelve months is
projected at less than $350 million, within a 95%
confidence level for the unhedged exposure. When calculated at
the end of each quarter throughout the year, the high was
$550 million, the low was $350 million and the average
was $460 million; the risks impacting financial instruments
are offset with underlying exposure being hedged. The
2003 year-end projection is approximately $40 million
lower than the EaR projection for 2003 calculated as of
December 31, 2002. The decreased exposure results primarily
from more diversification benefit due to lower correlation among
major currency pairings. The effect of currency movements on
business units will vary based on the currency profile of the
business unit (including any hedging actions taken). It can also
be affected by competitive responses to currency changes.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risk is the possibility of higher
or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such
as non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum) and precious metals
(e.g., palladium, platinum and rhodium), ferrous alloys (e.g.,
steel), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and
plastics/ resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the
production of motor vehicles.

We use derivative instruments to hedge the price
risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we
can economically hedge. In our hedging actions, we primarily use
instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity
price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps,
and options). Based on our financial hedging activities with
derivatives and the associated underlying commodities exposures
at December 31, 2003, the EaR from commodity price
movements over the next twelve months is projected at less than
$90 million, within a 95% confidence level (when calculated
at the end of each quarter throughout the year, the high was
$90 million, the low was $69 million and the average
was $80 million); the risks impacting financial instruments
are offset with underlying exposure being hedged. The year-end
level is approximately $31 million higher than the EaR
projection for 2003 calculated as of December 31, 2002. The
drivers of this increase are higher commodity price levels,
price volatilities and exposures.

Where derivative instruments do not exist or do
not provide a highly correlated hedge, our purchasing
organization negotiates contracts mitigating price risk (e.g.,
steel and resins) which are approved by the GRMC.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we
could incur in our Automotive investment portfolio in the event
of a change in interest rates. Our interest rate sensitivity
analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash
equivalents, marketable and loaned securities and short-term
VEBA Assets. At December 31, 2003, we had
$25.9 billion in cash, compared to $25.3 billion at
December 31, 2002. We invest our cash in securities of
various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to
fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are generally
classified as Trading



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

or Available for Sale. The Trading portfolio
gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the
income statement. The Available for Sale portfolio realized
gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and
unrealized gains and losses are reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders’ Equity in other comprehensive
income. The investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk
and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk,
and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investment.

At any time, a rise in interest rates could have
a material adverse impact on the fair value of our Trading and
our Available for Sale portfolios. As of December 31, 2003,
the value of our Trading portfolio was $24.2 billion
(including assets contained in a short-term VEBA trust), which
is $0.6 billion higher than December 31, 2002. The
value of our Available for Sale portfolio was $1.7 billion,
which is unchanged from December 31, 2002.

Assuming a hypothetical, instantaneous increase
in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our
Trading and Available for Sale portfolios would be reduced by
$206 million and $29 million, respectively. This
compares to $225 million and $29 million,
respectively, as calculated as of December 31, 2002. While
this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified
interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those
projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest
rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield
curve. In reality, interest rate changes are rarely
instantaneous or parallel.

Counterparty Risk

Counterparty risk relates to the loss we could
incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment
or a derivative contract. We enter into master agreements with
counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order
to manage this risk. Exposures primarily relate to investments
in fixed-income instruments and derivative contracts used for
managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rates and
commodity price risk. We, together with Ford Credit, establish
exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and
provide counterparty diversification. Our exposures are
monitored on a regular basis and are included in monthly
reporting to the GRMC.

Our approach to managing counterparty risk is
forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk
mitigation actions. We establish exposure limits for both
mark-to-market and future potential exposure, based on our
overall risk tolerance and ratings-based historical default
probabilities. The exposure limits are lower for lower-rated
counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. We use a Monte
Carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by
tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level.

Substantially all of our counterparty and obligor
exposures are with counterparties and obligors that are rated
single-A or better.

FORD CREDIT MARKET RISKS

Overview

Ford Credit is exposed to risks in the normal
course of its business activities. In addition to counterparty
risk discussed above, Ford Credit is subject to the following
additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess,
monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and
procedures:

•

Market risk — the possibility that
    changes in future market interest and currency exchange rates or
    prices will have an adverse impact on operating results.

•

Credit risk — the possibility of loss
    from a customer’s failure to make payments according to
    contract terms.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

•

Residual risk — the possibility that
    the actual proceeds received by Ford Credit upon the sale of
    returned lease vehicles at lease termination will be lower than
    the depreciated values (i.e., residual values) of those vehicles.

•

Liquidity risk — the possibility of
    being unable to meet all current and future obligations in a
    timely manner.

Each form of risk is uniquely managed in the
context of its contribution to Ford Credit’s overall global
risk. Business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis
and products are priced consistent with these risks. Credit and
residual risks are discussed above in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” under the caption “Critical Accounting
Estimates” and liquidity risk is discussed above in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption
“Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial
Services Sector — Ford Credit”. The following
discusses Ford Credit’s market risks:

Foreign Currency Risk.

To meet funding objectives, Ford
Credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws
on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. Ford Credit
faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists
between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the
debt funding those receivables. When possible, receivables are
funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to
exchange rate movements. When a different currency is used, Ford
Credit seeks to minimize the impact of currency exchange rates
on operating results by executing foreign currency derivatives.
These derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign
currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the
receivables. As a result, Ford Credit’s market risk
exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be
immaterial.

Interest Rate Risk.

Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Ford
Credit is exposed and consists principally of “re-pricing
risk” or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of
assets and liabilities. An instrument’s re-pricing period
is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an
interest rate-sensitive instrument responds to changes in
interest rates. It refers to the time it takes an
instrument’s interest rate to reflect a change in market
interest rates. For fixed-rate instruments, the re-pricing
period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the
instrument’s principal because, with a fixed interest rate,
the principal is considered to re-price only when re-invested in
a new instrument. For a floating-rate instrument, the re-pricing
period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to
the market rate. For instance, a floating-rate loan whose
interest rate is reset to a market index annually on
December 31st would have a re-pricing period of one year on
January 1st, regardless of the instrument’s maturity.

Ford Credit’s receivables consist primarily
of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and
floating-rate wholesale receivables. Fixed-rate retail
installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally
with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally
require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life
of the contract. Ford Credit’s funding sources consist
primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and sales of
receivables in securitizations. In the case of unsecured term
debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the
business cycles, Ford Credit may borrow at terms longer than the
term of its assets, with five to ten year maturities. These debt
instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and
equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a
single principal payment at maturity.

Ford Credit is exposed to interest rate risk to
the extent that a difference exists between the re-pricing
profile of its assets and debt. Specifically, without
derivatives, Ford Credit’s assets would re-price more
quickly than its debt.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

Ford Credit’s interest rate risk management
objective is to maximize its financing margin while limiting
fluctuations caused by changes in interest rates. Ford Credit
achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance
range and staying within this tolerance range through an
interest rate risk management program that includes entering
into derivatives commonly known as interest rate swaps.

On a monthly basis, Ford Credit determines the
sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest
rate-sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to
hypothetical changes in interest rates. Economic value is a
measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows,
discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present
value of interest rate-sensitive assets minus the present value
of interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Ford Credit then enters
into interest rate swaps, effectively converting portions of its
floating-rate debt or assets to fixed or its fixed-rate debt or
assets to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its
economic value falls within an established target range. Ford
Credit also monitors the sensitivity of its earnings to interest
rates using pre-tax net interest income simulation techniques.
These simulations calculate the projected pre-tax net interest
income of its portfolio of interest rate-sensitive assets and
liabilities under various interest rate scenarios, including
both parallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve. These
quantifications of interest rate risk are included in monthly
reporting to the Treasurer.

The process described above is used to measure
and manage the interest rate risk of Ford Credit’s
operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom,
which together represented approximately 85% of its total
on-balance sheet finance receivables at December 31, 2003.
For its international affiliates, Ford Credit uses a technique
commonly referred to as “gap analysis,” to measure
re-pricing mismatch. This process uses re-pricing schedules,
which group assets, debt, and swaps into time-bands based on
their re-pricing period. Under this process, Ford Credit enters
into interest rate swaps, effectively changing the re-pricing
profile of its assets and debt, to ensure that any re-pricing
mismatch existing in a particular time-band falls within an
established tolerance.

As a result of its interest rate risk management
process, including derivatives, Ford Credit’s debt
re-prices faster than its assets. Other things equal, this means
that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest
rates paid on Ford Credit’s debt will increase more rapidly
than the interest rates earned on assets, thereby initially
reducing Ford Credit’s pre-tax net interest income.
Correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, Ford
Credit’s pre-tax net interest income would be expected to
initially increase. To provide a quantitative measure of the
sensitivity of its pre-tax net interest income to changes in
interest rates, Ford Credit uses interest rate scenarios that
assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in
interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities, as
well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain
constant at existing levels. The differences between these
scenarios and the base case over a twelve-month period represent
an estimate of the sensitivity of Ford Credit’s pre-tax net
interest income. This sensitivity as of year-end 2003 and 2002
is as follows:

While the sensitivity analysis presented is Ford
Credit’s best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed
interest rate scenarios, actual results could differ from those
projected. The sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest
rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk (Continued)

curve. In reality, interest rate changes are
rarely instantaneous or parallel. Had the analysis assumed a
gradual change in interest rates of 100 basis points, it would
have resulted in a lower pre-tax net interest income impact. The
model used to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on
assumptions, particularly those regarding the reinvestment of
maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and
predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of
contractual maturity.

The fair value of net derivative financial
instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as
of December 31, 2003 as reported in Note 16 of the
Notes to Financial Statements was $8.9 billion,
approximately $1.3 billion higher than a year ago. This
increase primarily reflects the strengthening of the Euro
against the U.S. dollar which increases the value of
receive-Euro/ pay-U.S. dollar cross currency swaps and the
decrease in U.S. interest rates which increases the value
of our pay-floating/ receive-fixed rate swaps. For additional
information on our derivatives, please refer to the
“Financial Services Sector” of Note 16 of the
Notes to Financial Statements.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA

Our Financial Statements, the accompanying Notes
to Financial Statements, the Report of Independent Auditors, the
Financial Statement Schedules and the Report of Independent
Auditors on Financial Statement Schedule that are filed as part
of this Report are listed under Item 15. “Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
Form 8-K” and are set forth on pages FS-1 through
FS-44 and FSS-1 and FSS-2 immediately following the signature
pages of this Report.

Selected quarterly financial data for us and our
consolidated subsidiaries for 2003 and 2002 is in Note 22
of the Notes to Financial Statements.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not required.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

William Clay Ford, Jr., our Chief Executive
Officer, and Don R. Leclair, our Chief Financial Officer, have
performed an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures, as that term is defined in
Rule 13a-14 (c) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of
December 31, 2003 and each has concluded that such
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports
filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported, within the time periods specified by the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and regulations.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS

No changes in the Company’s internal
controls over financial reporting occurred during the quarter
ended December 31, 2003 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal controls over financial reporting.



PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
    FORD

The information required by Item 10
regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the
information under the captions “Election of
Directors”, “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” and “Management Stock
Ownership” in our Proxy Statement. The information required
by Item 10 regarding our executive officers appears as
Item 4A under Part I of this Report. The information
required by Item 10 regarding an audit committee financial
expert is incorporated by reference from the information under
the caption “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy
Statement The information required by Item 10 regarding the
members of our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Committees of the Board of Directors” in our Proxy
Statement. The information required by Item 10 regarding
our codes of ethics is incorporated by reference from the
information under the caption “Corporate Governance”
in our Proxy Statement. In addition, we have included in
Item 1 to this Report instructions for how to access our
codes of ethics on our website and our Internet address.
Amendments to, and waivers granted under, our Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Personnel, if any, will be posted to our
website as well.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the
following captions in our Proxy Statement: “Compensation of
Directors”, “Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation” “Compensation of
Executive Officers”, “Stock Options”,
“Performance Stock Rights”, “Stock Performance
Graphs” and “Retirement Plans”.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by Item 12 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the
captions “Stock Options — Equity Compensation
Plan Information” and “Management Stock
Ownership” in our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

The information required by Item 13 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in
our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
    SERVICES

The information required by Item 14 is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption
“Audit Committee Report” in our Proxy Statement.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND
    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1. Financial
Statements — Ford Motor Company and
Subsidiaries

Sector Statement of Income and Consolidated
Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002, and 2001.

Sector Balance Sheet and Consolidated Balance
Sheet at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Sector Statement of Cash Flows and Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002, and 2001.

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’
Equity for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and
2001.

Notes to Financial Statements

Report of Independent Auditors

The Sector and Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Notes to Financial Statements and the Report of Independent
Auditors listed above are filed as part of this Report and are
set forth on pages FS-1 through FS-44 immediately following
the signatures pages of this Report.

(a) 2. Financial Statement
Schedules

Schedule II and the Report of Independent
Auditors on Financial Statement Schedule are filed as part of
this Report and are set forth on page FSS-1 and FSS-2
immediately following the Notes to Financial Statements referred
to above. The other schedules are omitted because either they
are not applicable or the information required to be contained
in them is disclosed elsewhere in our Sector and Consolidated
Financial Statements or the amounts involved are not sufficient
to require submission.

(a) 3. Exhibits



Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
    Reports on Form 8-K (Continued)



Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
    Reports on Form 8-K (Continued)



Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
    Reports on Form 8-K (Continued)



Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
    Reports on Form 8-K (Continued)

*

Incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this
    Report (file number reference 1-3950, unless otherwise
    indicated)

**

Management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement

Instruments defining the rights of holders of
certain issues of long-term debt of Ford and of certain
consolidated subsidiaries and of any unconsolidated subsidiary,
for which financial statements are required to be filed with
this Report, have not been filed as exhibits to this Report
because the authorized principal amount of any one of such
issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Ford and our
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Ford agrees to furnish a
copy of each of such instruments to the Commission upon request.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

Ford filed the following Current Reports on
Form 8-K during the quarter ended December 31, 2003:

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 1, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s September 2003 U.S. sales results.

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 2, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s 2003 collective bargaining agreement with the
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW).

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 16, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s third quarter 2003 financial results.

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 3, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s October 2003 U.S. sales results.

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 2, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s November 2003 U.S. sales results.

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 16, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s negotiations with Visteon Corporation.

Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 22, 2003 included information relating to
Ford’s new agreements with Visteon Corporation.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ford has duly
caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FORD MOTOR COMPANY

By:

/s/ DON R. LECLAIR*

(Don R. Leclair)

Group Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 12, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of Ford and in the capacities on the
date indicated.





FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-1


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-2


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-3


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-4


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

SECTOR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-5


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-6


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(in millions)

The accompanying notes are part of the financial
statements.

FS-7


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Presentation and
Consolidation

We present our financial statements on two bases:
1) sector basis for Automotive and Financial Services and
2) consolidated basis. We believe the additional
information provided in the sector basis statements enable the
reader to better understand the operating performance, financial
position, cash flow and liquidity of our two very different
businesses.

Our financial statements include consolidated
majority-owned subsidiaries. Effective July 1, 2003, our
financial statements also include consolidated variable interest
entities (“VIEs”) of which we are the primary
beneficiary (see Note 13). Affiliates that we do not
consolidate, but for which we have significant influence over
operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the
equity method.

Prior period amounts in our sector financial
statements, consolidated financial statements and notes have
been reclassified to reflect discontinued/held-for-sale
operations. In addition, certain amounts previously disclosed in
our press release and current report on Form 8-K dated
January 22, 2004 have been reclassified.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and all highly liquid investments with a
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase,
including short-term time deposits and government agency and
corporate obligations, are classified as

Cash and cash
equivalents

.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements are prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States. Management is required to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Actual
results could differ from those assumptions. Estimates and
assumptions are periodically reviewed and the effects of any
material revisions are reflected in the financial statements in
the period that they are determined to be necessary.

Revenue Recognition — Automotive
Sector

Sales are generally recorded when products are
shipped to customers (primarily dealers) and ownership is
transferred. Sales to daily rental car companies with a
guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating
leases. The lease revenue is recognized over the term of the
lease and a gain or loss on the remaining residual value is
recognized when the vehicles are sold at auction. The carrying
value of these vehicles, included in other current assets, was
$2.2 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively.

Investment income generated from investments in
marketable securities and other miscellaneous receivables is
reported as

Interest income

.

Revenue Recognition — Financial
Services Sector

Revenue from finance receivables, including
interest, net of certain deferred loan origination costs that
are included as a reduction of financing revenue, is recognized
over the term of the receivable using the interest method.
Revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred
origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease. The accrual of interest on loans is
discontinued at the time the loan is impaired. Subsequent
amounts of interest collected are recognized in income only if
full recovery of the remaining principal is probable. Interest
supplements paid by the Automotive sector are recognized over
the term of the receivable or operating lease.

FS-8


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING
POLICIES — Continued

Marketing Incentives

Automotive marketing incentives, including
customer and dealer cash payments and costs for special
financing and leasing programs (e.g., interest subsidies paid to
the Financial Services sector), are recognized as revenue
reductions and are accrued at the later of the date the related
vehicle sales are recorded or the date the incentive program is
both approved and communicated. In general, the amount of
interest or lease subsidies paid is the difference between the
amounts offered to retail customers and a market-based interest
or lease rate. Costs for marketing incentives are based on
assumptions regarding the number of vehicles that will have a
specific incentive applied against them.

Warranty and Additional Service
Actions

Estimated expenses related to contractual product
warranties and additional service actions are accrued at the
time vehicles are sold to dealers. Estimates are established
using historical information on the nature, frequency, and
average cost of warranty claims. Additional service actions
include costs related to product recalls and other service
actions outside the contractual warranty coverage. Fees or
premiums received for the issuance of extended service plans are
recognized in income over the contract period in proportion to
the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under
the contract.

Selected Other Costs

Freight costs are accrued at the time of sale and
are included in cost of sales. Advertising and engineering,
research and development costs are expensed as incurred and were
as follows (in billions):

Sale of Receivables

Ford Credit sells finance receivables to special
purpose entities in securitization transactions. The receivables
are removed from our balance sheet at the time they are sold.
Sales and transfers that do not meet the criteria for surrender
of control are accounted for as borrowings. Receivables are
considered sold when the receivables are transferred beyond the
reach of our creditors, the transferee has the right to pledge
or exchange the assets and we have surrendered control over the
rights and obligations of the receivables.

Gains or losses from the sale of finance
receivables are recognized in the period the sale occurs based
on the relative fair value of the portion sold and the portion
allocated to retained interests. The retained interests are
recorded at fair value estimated by discounting future cash
flows using a rate that reflects the credit, interest and
prepayment risks associated with similar types of instruments.
Changes in fair value are recorded, net of tax, as

Accumulated other comprehensive income/ (loss)

, a
component of stockholders’ equity.

Foreign Currency Translation

Results of operations and cash flows of foreign
subsidiaries are, in most cases, translated to U.S. dollars
at average-period currency exchange rates. Assets and
liabilities are translated at end-of-period exchange rates.

FS-9


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING
POLICIES — Continued

Included in the statement of income is the impact
of re-measuring assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries
using U.S. dollars as their functional currency, gains and
losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency, and the results of our foreign
currency hedging activities (Note 16). The net income
effects of these adjustments were gains of $454 million,
and losses of $19 million, and $315 million in 2003,
2002, and 2001 respectively.

Translation adjustments related to foreign
subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional
currency are generally included in

Accumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss)

, a component of
stockholders’ equity. Translation adjustments were a
$2.9 billion increase in 2003, a $2.9 billion increase
in 2002 and a $1.1 billion decrease in 2001.

Depreciation and Amortization of Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost and
depreciated primarily using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the asset. Special tools placed in
service before January 1, 1999 are amortized using an
accelerated method over the estimated life of those tools.
Special tools placed in service beginning in 1999 are amortized
using the units-of-production method. Maintenance, repairs, and
rearrangement costs are expensed as incurred.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We test for impairment when events and
circumstances warrant such a review. We evaluate the carrying
value of long-lived assets for potential impairment on a
regional operating business unit basis or at the individual
asset level, if held for sale, using undiscounted after-tax
estimated cash flows. An asset group is considered impaired when
the anticipated separately identifiable cash flows from the
asset group are less than the carrying value.

Stock Options

Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted the
fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

for stock-based
employee compensation. Under the modified prospective method of
adoption selected by the Company under the provisions of SFAS
No. 148,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure

,
stock-based employee compensation expense recognized in 2003 is
the same as that which would have been recognized had the fair
value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 been applied
to all awards from its original effective date. Results of prior
years have not been restated.

FS-10


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING
POLICIES — Continued

The following table illustrates the effect on net
income and earnings per share if the fair value method had been
applied to all unvested outstanding stock option awards in each
year (in millions):

Transactions Between Automotive and Financial
Services Sectors

Intersector transactions occur in the ordinary
course of business. The Company and Ford Motor Credit Company
(“Ford Credit”) formally documented certain
long-standing business practices in a 2001 agreement. Additional
details on certain transactions and the effect on each
sector’s balance sheet at December 31 is shown below
(in billions):

Periodically, Ford Credit receives interest
supplements and other support cost payments from Automotive for
providing special vehicle financing for low-interest-rate
marketing programs. Ford Credit records these transactions as
revenue over the life of the contract. Amounts recorded as
revenue by the Financial Services sector, and billed to the
Automotive sector, were $3.5 billion in 2003,
$3.7 billion in 2002, and $4.1 billion in 2001.

The Automotive sector records the estimated costs
for these sales incentive programs as described above under
“Marketing Incentives”.

FS-11


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 2. INCOME TAXES

Components of income taxes, excluding equity in
net results of affiliated companies accounted for after-tax, are
as follows:

Annual tax provisions include amounts considered
sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations
of prior year tax returns; however, the amount ultimately paid
upon resolution of issues raised may differ materially from the
amount accrued. No provision for deferred taxes has been made on
$860 million of unremitted earnings (primarily prior to
1998) that are considered to be indefinitely invested in
non-U.S. subsidiaries. Deferred taxes for these unremitted
earnings are not practicable to estimate.

FS-12


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 2. INCOME TAXES
(Continued)

The components of deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31 were as follows (in millions):

Operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes
were $4.6 billion at December 31, 2003. A substantial
portion of these losses has an indefinite carryforward period;
the remaining losses will begin to expire in 2004. Tax credits
available to offset future tax liabilities are
$2.4 billion. A substantial portion has an indefinite
carryforward period; the remainder begins to expire in 2005. Tax
benefits of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are
evaluated on an ongoing basis, including a review of historical
and projected future operating results, the eligible
carryforward period, and other circumstances. Management
believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax
assets will be realized.

NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED AND HELD-FOR-SALE
OPERATIONS

Automotive Sector

The Automotive sector completed the sale of
several of its non-core businesses initiated in 2002, including
our former automotive recycling businesses in the United States
and Canada and our electric vehicle business in Norway.
Associated with these sales, we recorded after-tax net losses of
$168 million in 2002 reflected in

Loss on disposal of
discontinued/held-for sale operations

.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, management
committed to sell certain additional non-core Automotive sector
businesses. We expect to sell or unwind these businesses during
2004 and have reported these businesses as held-for-sale under
SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets,

for all periods shown. We have
recognized an after-tax charge of $99 million in 2003, on
the anticipated loss on sale of these assets, reflected in

Loss on disposal of discontinued/held-for-sale
operations

. This amount represents the difference between
the anticipated selling price of these assets, less costs to
sell them, and their recorded book value.

FS-13


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED AND HELD-FOR-SALE
OPERATIONS (Continued)

The operating results of the discontinued and
held-for-sale Automotive operations are as follows
(in millions):

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, inventories
associated with discontinued and held-for-sale operations
totaled $2 million and $52 million, respectively. At
December 31, 2003 and 2002, net property of the entities
totaled $8 million and $40 million, respectively.

Financial Services Sector

The Financial Services sector completed the sale,
initiated in 2002, of its all-makes vehicle fleet leasing
operations in Europe, New Zealand and Australia. We recognized
an after-tax charge of $31 million in 2002, reflected in

Loss on disposal of discontinued/held-for-sale
operations

. This amount represents the difference between
the selling price of these assets, less costs to sell them, and
their recorded book value.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, management
committed to a plan to sell a wholly-owned subsidiary in the
U.S. that offers full service car and truck leasing. We
expect to complete the sale of this business during 2004 and
have reported this business as held-for-sale under SFAS
No. 144 for all periods shown. We recognized an after-tax
charge of $55 million in 2003 on the anticipated loss on
sale of these assets, reflected in

Loss on disposal of
discontinued/held-for-sale operations

. This amount
represents the difference between the anticipated selling price
of these assets, less costs to sell them, and their recorded
book value.

The operating results of the discontinued and
held-for-sale Financial Services operations are as follows
(in millions):

NOTE 4.

MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
    SECURITIES

Trading securities are recorded at fair value
with unrealized gains and losses included in income.
Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with
net unrealized holding gains and losses reported, net of tax, in

Accumulated other comprehensive income

. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost. Realized gains and
losses are accounted for using the specific identification
method.

The fair value of substantially all securities is
determined by quoted market prices. The estimated fair value of
securities for which there are no quoted market prices is based
on similar types of securities that are traded in the market.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair
values are recorded at cost. Book value approximates fair value
for all securities.

FS-14


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 4.

MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
    SECURITIES (Continued)

Expected maturities of debt securities may differ
from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right
to call or prepay obligations with or without penalty.

On October 2, 2002, we purchased ¥
20 billion (equivalent of U.S. $164 million)
aggregate principal amount of convertible bonds issued by Mazda
Motor Corporation. The bonds are accounted for as an
available-for-sale security and included in

Equity in net
assets of affiliated companies

. As of December 31, 2003
and 2002, these bonds had a fair value of $210 million and
$161 million, respectively.

We loan certain securities from our portfolio to
other institutions. Such securities are classified as

Loaned
securities

on the balance sheet. Collateral for the loaned
securities, consisting of cash or other securities, is required
to be maintained at a rate of 102% of the market value of a
loaned security. Cash collateral received is recorded as an
asset in

Other current assets,

offset by an obligation to
return the collateral in

Other payables

. Income received
from loaning securities is recorded as

Interest income

.

Investments in marketable and loaned securities
at December 31 were as follows (in millions):

The proceeds and gains/(losses) from sales of
available-for-sale securities were as follows (in millions):

FS-15


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 4.

MARKETABLE, LOANED AND OTHER
    SECURITIES (Continued)

The amortized cost and fair value of investments
in available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities by
contractual maturity for Automotive and Financial Service
sectors were as follows (in millions):

NOTE 5.

INVENTORIES — AUTOMOTIVE
    SECTOR

Inventories at December 31 were as follows
(in millions):

Inventories are stated at lower of cost or
market. About one-third of inventories were determined under the
last-in, first-out method.

FS-16


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 6. NET PROPERTY AND RELATED
EXPENSES — AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

Net property at December 31 was as follows
(in millions):

Property-related expenses were as follows (in
millions):

*

Includes impairment charges of
    $3,555 million in 2001 (see Note 18).

NOTE 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER
INTANGIBLES

Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS
No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

which
eliminates amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible
assets and requires annual testing for impairment (comparison of
estimated fair value to carrying value). In 2002, after-tax,
non-cash transition charges were taken of $708 million in
the Automotive sector, primarily relating to the impairment of
goodwill in Kwik-fit, our former all-makes European vehicle
repair business, and $294 million in the Financial Services
sector, related to the impairment of goodwill in Hertz’
industrial and construction equipment rental business. We
perform annual testing in the second quarter to determine if any
impairment has occurred. No impairment resulted from our annual
test in the second quarter of 2003.

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as
follows (in millions):

In addition, included within

Equity in net
assets of affiliated companies

was goodwill of
$390 million at December 31, 2003.

FS-17


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER
INTANGIBLES (Continued)

The components of identifiable intangible assets
are as follows as of December 31, 2003 (in millions):

Pre-tax amortization expense related to these
intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 was $35 million and $40 million, respectively.
Intangible asset amortization is forecasted to range from $25 to
$35 million per year for the next five years.

If SFAS No. 142 had been in effect for the
year ended December 31, 2001, our earnings would have been
improved due to reduced amortization, as described below (in
millions):

*

$227 million Automotive and $32 million
    Financial Services.

NOTE 8. FINANCE
RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

Net finance receivables at December 31 were
as follows (in millions):

Finance receivables that originated outside the
U.S. were $45.7 billion and $42.0 billion at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other finance
receivables consisted primarily of real estate, commercial and
other collateralized loans and accrued interest. Included in
wholesale and other finance receivables at December 31,
2003 and 2002 were $2.9 billion and $2.5 billion,
respectively, of accounts receivable purchased by certain
Financial Services sector operations from Automotive sector
operations.

Future maturities, exclusive of the effects of
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,

of total finance receivables including
minimum lease rentals are as follows (in billions):
2004 — $61.9; 2005 — $22.9; 2006 —
$12.6; thereafter — $12.0. Experience indicates that a
substantial portion of the portfolio generally is repaid before
the contractual maturity dates.

FS-18


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 8. FINANCE
RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES
SECTOR (Continued)

Finance receivables subject to fair value at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $102.9 billion and
$88.3 billion, respectively. The fair value of these
finance receivables at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was
$103.9 billion and $89.9 billion, respectively.

Included in retail receivables above are
investments in direct financing leases. The net investment at
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

The investment in direct financing leases relates
to the leasing of vehicles, various types of transportation and
other equipment and facilities. Future maturities of minimum
lease rentals, as included above, are as follows (in billions):
2004 — $2.1; 2005 — $1.7; 2006 —
$1.2; thereafter — $0.5 billion.

The Financial Services sector sold receivables in
off-balance sheet securitizations and whole-loan transactions
and retained servicing rights. In off-balance sheet
securitizations, we retain interests in the sold receivables,
and with respect to subordinated retained interests, we have
credit risk. At December 31, 2003, outstanding sold
receivables were as follows (in billions):

Retained interests in sold receivables were as
follows (in millions):

Most of the retained interests in sold wholesale
receivables represents our undivided interest in wholesale
receivables that are available to support the issuance of
additional securities by the securitization entity
($8.0 billion and $11.4 billion as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively); the balance
represents credit enhancements. Interest-only strips represent
the right to receive collections on the sold finance receivables
in excess of amounts needed by the securitization entities to
pay interest and principal to investors, servicing fees and
other required payments. Investments in subordinated securities
and restricted cash are senior to interest-only strips.

Ford Credit uses a special purpose trust
(“FCAR”), as a source of funds for its operations.
FCAR’s activities are limited to issuing asset-backed
commercial paper and other securities and

FS-19


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 8. FINANCE
RECEIVABLES — FINANCIAL SERVICES
SECTOR (Continued)

buying highly-rated asset-backed securities
issued by securitization special purpose entities
(“SPEs”) sponsored by Ford Credit.

In the second quarter of 2003, Ford Credit
purchased a portion of equity interests in FCAR from
unaffiliated parties. As a result of this transaction,
FCAR’s assets, liabilities and results of operations were
consolidated into Ford Credit’s financial statements. In
addition, the consolidation of FCAR also caused certain of the
Ford Credit-sponsored securitization SPEs that sell asset-backed
securities to FCAR to lose their status as qualifying SPEs under
SFAS No. 140,

Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.

Consequently, the receivables previously sold by us to these
SPEs were deemed to be reacquired (“reacquired
receivables”) by us in accordance with SFAS No. 140
requirements and were consolidated in the second quarter at fair
value. Following the consolidation of FCAR, most sales of
receivables to Ford Credit-sponsored SPEs that sell asset-back
securities to FCAR will not qualify as an accounting sale and
will be reported on-balance sheet.

The consolidation of FCAR and related
securitization SPEs for financial reporting purposes did not
change the bankruptcy-remote status of FCAR or the Ford
Credit-sponsored securitization SPEs. The accounting
consolidation did not have a material impact on Ford
Credit’s earnings, back-up credit facilities, unsecured
debt funding programs or other securitization programs. No gain
or loss was recorded upon consolidation.

At December 31, 2003, about
$14.3 billion of retail installment receivables reported on
our balance sheet have been sold for legal purposes to Ford
Credit-sponsored securitization SPEs that sell asset-backed
securities to FCAR and are available only to pay securitization
investors and other participants and are not available to pay
the obligations of Ford Credit or the claims of Ford
Credit’s creditors. These finance receivables supported
$9.0 billion of asset-backed commercial paper issued by
FCAR, which is payable solely out of collections on these
receivables and is not the legal obligation of Ford Credit. At
December 31, 2003, FCAR had capacity to issue externally an
additional $3.9 billion of asset-backed commercial paper,
based on the existing amount of retail installment receivables
that supported this program.

NOTE 9. NET INVESTMENT IN OPERATING
LEASES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

The net investment in operating leases at
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

Minimum rentals on operating leases are
contractually due as follows: 2004 —
$5.9 billion; 2005 — $4.0 billion;
2006 — $2.1 billion; 2007 —
$656 million; 2008 — $214 million;
thereafter — $464 million.

Assets subject to operating leases are
depreciated primarily on the straight-line method over the term
of the lease to reduce the asset to its estimated residual
value. Estimated residual values are based on assumptions for
used vehicle prices at lease termination and the number of
vehicles that are expected to be returned. Operating lease
depreciation expense (which includes gains and losses on
disposal of assets) was $8.5 billion in 2003,
$9.9 billion in 2002, and $9.9 billion in 2001.

FS-20


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 10. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
LOSSES — FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR

The allowance for credit losses is our estimate
of probable credit losses related to impaired receivables and
operating leases as of the date of the financial statements.
This allowance is based on factors including historical credit
loss trends, the credit quality of our present portfolio, trends
in historical and projected used vehicle values and general
economic measures. Additions to the allowance for credit losses
are made by recording charges to the provision for credit losses
on our income statement. In general, finance receivables and
lease investments are charged to the allowance for credit losses
at the earlier of when an account is deemed to be uncollectible
or when an account is 120 days delinquent, taking into
consideration the financial condition of the borrower or lessee,
the value of the collateral, recourse to guarantors and other
factors. Recoveries on finance receivables and lease investments
previously charged off as uncollectible are credited to the
allowance for credit losses.

Changes in the allowance for credit losses for
finance receivables, investment in direct financing leases and
investment in operating leases were as follows (in millions):

NOTE 11. LIABILITIES —
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR (IN MILLIONS)

FS-21


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 12. DEBT AND COMMITMENTS

Automotive and Financial Services debt as of
December 31 was as follows (in millions):

Subordinated Indebtedness

At December 31, 2003, Ford Motor Company
Capital Trust, a subsidiary trust (“Trust I”), had
outstanding 9% Trust Originated Preferred Securities with an
aggregate liquidation preference of $632 million (the
“Preferred Securities”). The sole assets of the Trust
were $651 million aggregate principal amount of Ford Motor
Company 9% Junior Subordinated Debentures due December 2025 (the
“Debentures”). On January 2, 2004, we redeemed
the Debentures, which reduced our subordinated debt included in

Debt payable within one year

by $688 million. The
redemption of the Debentures resulted in the simultaneous
mandatory redemption by Trust I of the Preferred Securities at
$25 per share plus accrued and unpaid distributions.

Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II, a subsidiary
trust (“Trust II”), has outstanding 6.50% Cumulative
Convertible Trust Preferred Securities with an aggregate
liquidation preference of $5 billion (the “Trust II
Preferred Securities”). The sole assets of Trust II are
$5,155 million principal amount of 6.50% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2032 of Ford Motor Company (the

FS-22


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 12. DEBT AND COMMITMENTS
(Continued)

“Subordinated Debentures”). At our
option, we may redeem the Subordinated Debentures, in whole or
in part, on or after January 15, 2007. To the extent we
redeem the Subordinated Debentures or upon the maturity of the
Subordinated Debentures, Trust II is required to redeem the
Trust II Preferred Securities at $50 per share plus accrued and
unpaid distributions. We guarantee the payment of all
distribution and other payments of the Trust II Preferred
Securities to the extent not paid by Trust II, but only if and
to the extent we have made a payment of interest or principal on
the Subordinated Debentures.

Credit Facilities*

Automotive Sector

At December 31, 2003, the Automotive sector
had $7.0 billion of contractually committed credit
agreements with various banks of which $6.9 billion were
available for use. Ninety-two percent of the total facilities
are committed through June 30, 2008. Of the
$7.0 billion, $6.8 billion constitute global credit
facilities and may be used, at Ford’s option, by any of its
direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiaries on a guaranteed
basis. Ford also has the ability to transfer, on a
non-guaranteed basis, $2.5 billion of such global credit
facilities to Ford Credit and $543 million to FCE Bank plc.
(“FCE”), Ford Credit’s European operation. All of
the global credit facilities are free of material adverse change
clauses and restrictive financial covenants (for example,
debt-to-equity limitations, minimum net worth requirements and
credit rating triggers that would limit our ability to borrow).

Financial Services Sector

For additional funding and to maintain liquidity,
Ford Credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries (including FCE)
have contractually committed credit facilities with financial
institutions that totaled approximately $7.7 billion at
December 31, 2003, including $3.3 billion and
$3.2 billion of global credit facilities at Ford Credit and
FCE, respectively and $1.2 billion of non-global credit
facilities with varying terms and conditions that support local
financing needs. Approximately $1.0 billion of the total
facilities were in use at December 31, 2003. Forty-seven
percent of these facilities are committed through June 30,
2008. The global credit facilities may be used, at Ford
Credit’s or FCE’s option, by any of their direct or
indirect majority-owned subsidiaries. Ford Credit or FCE, as the
case may be, will guarantee any such borrowings. All of the
global credit facilities are free of material adverse change
clauses and restrictive financial covenants (for example,
debt-to-equity limitations, minimum net worth requirements and
credit rating triggers that would limit our ability to borrow).

Additionally, at December 31, 2003, banks
provided $18.6 billion of contractually committed liquidity
facilities supporting two asset-backed commercial paper
programs; $18.2 billion support Ford Credit’s FCAR
program and $425 million support Ford Credit’s Motown
Notes

SM

Program.

In addition, Ford Credit also has entered into
agreements with several bank-sponsored, commercial paper issuers
under which such issuers in the aggregate are contractually
committed to purchase from Ford Credit, at Ford Credit’s
option, up to $12.8 billion of receivables. The agreements
have varying maturity dates between June 24, 2004 and
October 29, 2004. As of December 31, 2003,
approximately $4.4 billion of these commitments have been
used. These agreements do not contain restrictive financial
covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations or minimum
net worth requirements) or material adverse change clauses that
would relieve the bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper
issuer of its obligation to purchase receivables, but do contain
provisions that could terminate the unused portion of those
commitments if the performance

*

Credit facilities of our Variable Interest
    Entities are excluded as we do not control their use.

FS-23


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 12. DEBT AND COMMITMENTS
(Continued)

of the sold receivables deteriorates beyond
specified levels. None of these arrangements may be terminated
based on a change in Ford Credit’s credit rating.

At December 31, 2003, Hertz had committed
credit facilities totaling $2.8 billion. Of this amount,
$1.3 billion represented global and other committed credit
facilities ($810 million of which are available through
June 30, 2008 and $488 million of which have various
maturities of up to four years); $500 million consisted of
a revolving credit line provided by Ford, which currently
expires in June 2005; $215 million consisted of
asset-backed Letters of Credit, and $814 million consisted
of 364-day asset-backed commercial paper facilities.

NOTE 13. VARIABLE INTEREST
ENTITIES

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Interpretation
No. 46 (“FIN 46”),

Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51

,
which expands upon and strengthens existing accounting guidance
concerning when a company should include in its financial
statements the assets, liabilities and activities of another
entity. A Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”) does not
share economic risk and rewards through typical equity ownership
arrangements; instead, contractual or other relationships
re-distribute economic risks and rewards among equity holders
and other parties. Once an entity is determined to be a VIE, the
party with the controlling financial interest, the primary
beneficiary, is required to consolidate it. FIN 46 also requires
disclosures about VIEs that the Company is not required to
consolidate but in which it has a significant variable interest.

Effective July 1, 2003, we adopted FIN 46
for VIEs formed prior to February 1, 2003. As a result of
consolidating the VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary,
in the third quarter of 2003, we recognized a non-cash charge of
$264 million as the

Cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle

in our statement of income. The charge
represented the difference between the fair value of the assets,
liabilities and minority interests recorded upon consolidation
and the carrying value of the investments. Recorded assets
excluded goodwill in accordance with FIN 46.

The liabilities recognized as a result of
consolidating the VIEs do not represent additional claims on our
general assets, rather, they represent claims against the
specific assets of the consolidated VIEs. Conversely, assets
recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not
represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy claims
against our general assets. Reflected in our December 31,
2003 balance sheet are $3.4 billion of VIE assets.

Automotive Sector

VIEs of which we are the primary
beneficiary:

As of July 1, 2003, the Automotive sector
consolidated certain joint ventures determined to be VIEs, which
we have invested in and contracted with to manufacture and/or
assemble vehicles and/or components. The activities with these
joint ventures include purchasing substantially all of the joint
ventures’ output under a cost plus margin arrangement
and/or volume dependent pricing. Described below are the most
significant of the VIEs that were consolidated.

Ford Otosan (“Otosan”) is a joint
venture in Turkey with Ford (41% partner), the Koc Group of
Turkey (41% partner) and public investors (18%). Otosan is the
single assembly supplier of the new Ford Transit Connect and an
assembly supplier of the Ford Transit van.

Getrag Ford Transmissions GmbH (“GFT”)
is a 50/50 joint venture with Getrag Deutsche Venture GmbH &
Co. Kg i.G., a German company, to which we transferred our
European manual

FS-24


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 13. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
(Continued)

transmission operations in Halewood, England,
Cologne, Germany and Bordeaux, France. GFT is the primary
supplier of manual transmissions for use in our European
vehicles.

ZF Transmission Technologies L.L.C. is a company
jointly owned between Ford (49%) and ZF Friedrichshafen Germany
(“ZF”) (51%). At December 31, 2003, this company
owned automatic transmission intellectual property and an
automatic transmission plant in Batavia, Ohio (ZF Batavia, LLC).
The Batavia, Ohio plant produces both a front wheel drive
continuously variable transmission (“CVT”) and a front
wheel drive 4-speed automatic transmission for use in certain of
our vehicles sold in North America and Europe. On
February 3, 2004, Ford acquired 100% ownership of ZF
Batavia, LLC (renamed Batavia Transmissions, LLC). Ford and ZF
will maintain their joint ownership of ZF Transmission
Technologies, LLC, which will concentrate on future CVT product
development.

Tekfor Cologne Gmbh (“Tekfor”) is a
50/50 joint venture with Neumayer Holdings GmbH, a German
company, to which we transferred our Cologne forging operations.
Tekfor produces transmission and chassis components for use in
our vehicles. Tekfor was formed and consolidated in the second
quarter of 2003.

We hold equity interests in certain Ford and/or
Lincoln Mercury dealerships. As of July 1, 2003, we
consolidated a portfolio of approximately 160 dealerships that
are part of our Dealer Development program. The program’s
purpose is to facilitate the establishment of independent
franchised dealers by allowing a participating dealership
operator to become the sole owner of a Ford and/or Lincoln
Mercury dealership corporation by purchasing equity from Ford
using the operator’s share of dealership net profits. We
supply and finance the majority of vehicles and parts to these
dealerships and the operators have a contract to buy Ford’s
equity interest over a period of time.

VIEs of which we are not the primary
beneficiary:

At December 31, 2003, Ford had investments
in two subsidiary trusts, Ford Motor Company Capital Trust I
(“Trust I”) and Ford Motor Company Capital Trust II
(“Trust II”) that are VIEs of which Ford is not the
primary beneficiary. Prior to July 1, 2003, Trust I and
Trust II were consolidated in our financial statements and the
preferred securities of Trust I and Trust II were presented as
Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures
of the Company on our balance sheet. Effective July 1,
2003, we deconsolidated Trust I and Trust II. Our obligation to
Trust I is presented as

Dept payable within one year

and
our obligation to Trust II is presented as

Subordinated
debt

on our balance sheet. For further discussions of our
obligations to Trust I and Trust II, see Notes 12 and 14.

Ford has several investments in other joint
ventures deemed to be VIEs of which we are not the primary
beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with our interests
in these entities are based primarily on ownership percentages.
Our maximum exposure (approximately $104 million at
December 31, 2003) to any potential losses, should they
occur, associated with these VIEs is limited to our equity
investments and, where applicable, receivables due from the VIEs.

Financial Services Sector

FCAR is considered a VIE under FIN 46 and has
been consolidated. See Note 8 for a description of FCAR.

Ford Credit has investments in certain joint
ventures deemed to be VIEs of which it is not the primary
beneficiary. The risks and rewards associated with Ford
Credit’s interests in these entities are based primarily on
ownership percentages. Ford Credit’s maximum exposure
(approximately

FS-25


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 13. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
(Continued)

$125 million at December 31, 2003) to
any potential losses, should they occur, associated with these
VIEs is limited to its equity investments.

We also sell receivables to bank-sponsored
asset-backed commercial paper issuers that are SPEs of the
sponsor bank and are not consolidated by us. At
December 31, 2003, these SPEs held about $5.5 billion
of retail installment sale contracts previously owned by us.

NOTE 14. CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER
SHARE

All general voting power is vested in the holders
of Common Stock and the holders of Class B Stock. Holders
of Common Stock have 60% of the general voting power and holders
of Class B Stock are entitled to such number of votes per
share as would give them the remaining 40%. Shares of Common
Stock and Class B Stock share equally in dividends, with
stock dividends payable in shares of stock of the class held. If
liquidated, each share of Common Stock will be entitled to the
first $0.50 available for distribution to holders of Common
Stock and Class B Stock, each share of Class B Stock
will be entitled to the next $1.00 so available, each share of
Common Stock will be entitled to the next $0.50 so available and
each share of Common and Class B Stock will be entitled to
an equal amount thereafter.

In December 2002, we redeemed for cash, at an
aggregate redemption price of $177 million, all of our
outstanding Series B Depositary Shares, representing 1/2000
of a share of $1.00 par value Series B Cumulative Preferred
Stock.

As discussed in Note 12, Trust II Preferred
Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference of
$5 billion are outstanding. At the option of the holder,
each Preferred Security is convertible, at any time on or before
January 15, 2032, into shares of Ford Common Stock at a
rate of 2.8249 shares for each Preferred Security (equivalent to
a conversion price of $17.70 per share). Conversion of all
shares of such securities would result in the issuance of
282.5 million shares of Ford Common Stock.

Changes to the number of shares of capital stock
issued were as follows (shares in millions):

FS-26


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 14. CAPITAL STOCK AND AMOUNTS PER
SHARE (Continued)

Amounts Per Share of Common and Class B
Stock

The calculation of diluted income per share of
Common and Class B Stock takes into account the effect of
obligations, such as stock options and convertible securities,
considered to be potentially dilutive. Basic and diluted
income/(loss) per share were calculated using the following
number of shares (in millions):

Not included in calculation of diluted earnings
per share due to their antidilutive effect:

(a)

30 million potential shares related to
    options in 2001.

(b)

282 million shares related to convertible
    preferred securities in 2003 and 2002.

NOTE 15. STOCK OPTIONS

We have stock options outstanding under two
Long-term Incentive Plans (“LTIP”), the 1990 LTIP and
the 1998 LTIP. No further grants may be made under the 1990 LTIP
and all outstanding options are exercisable. Grants may be made
under the 1998 LTIP through April 2008. All outstanding options
under the 1990 LTIP continue to be governed by the terms and
conditions of the existing option agreements for those grants.
Under the 1998 LTIP, 33% of the options are generally
exercisable after the first anniversary of the date of grant,
66% after the second anniversary, and 100% after the third
anniversary. Stock options expire ten years from the grant date
and, beginning in 2003, are expensed. Additionally, we have
outstanding performance stock rights, restricted stock units,
restricted stock grants and equivalents, and stock appreciation
rights.

Under the 1998 LTIP, 2% of our issued common
stock as of December 31 becomes available for granting plan
awards in the succeeding calendar year. Any unused portion is
available for later years. The limit may be increased up to 3%
in any year, with a corresponding reduction in shares available
for grants in future years. At December 31, 2003, the
number of unused shares carried forward aggregated to
36.2 million shares.

FS-27


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 15. STOCK OPTIONS
(Continued)

(a)

Exercised at option prices ranging from $10.99 to
    $13.54 during 2003, $7.09 to $12.53 during 2002, and $5.75 to
    $26.59 during 2001.

Details on various stock option exercise price
ranges are as follows:

The estimated fair value of stock options at the
time of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model was
as follows:

*

Previously disclosed values adjusted to conform
    with SFAS 123 requirements.

See Note 1 for a discussion of the impact on
earnings of our adoption of SFAS No. 123 in respect to
stock option awards, effective January 1, 2003.

NOTE 16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

We adopted SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,

as amended
and interpreted, on January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments and requires that all derivatives be recorded at
fair value on our balance sheet, including embedded derivatives.

Our operations are exposed to global market
risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, certain commodity prices and interest rates. The
objective of our risk management program is to manage the
financial and operational exposure arising from these risks by
offsetting gains and losses on the underlying exposures with
gains and losses on derivatives

FS-28


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

used to hedge them. We have comprehensive hedge
documentation that defines the hedging objectives, practices,
procedures, and accounting treatment. Our hedging program and
our derivative positions and strategy are reviewed on a regular
basis by our management. In addition, we have entered into
agreements that allow us to settle positive and negative
positions with the same counterparty on a net basis.

Derivative positions are used only to manage
identified exposures. We have elected to apply hedge accounting
to a portion of our derivatives. Hedges that receive designated
hedge accounting treatment are evaluated for effectiveness at
the time they are designated as well as throughout the hedge
period. Some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting
under SFAS No. 133; for others, we elect not to apply
hedge accounting treatment. For both of these, the mark to fair
value is reported currently through earnings.

Automotive Sector

Adjustments to pre-tax income as a result of the
ineffectiveness in our SFAS No. 133 designated hedges
and our non-designated hedges, for the years ended
December 31, were a gain of $237 million in 2003 and a
loss of $437 million in 2002.

Cash Flow Hedges

We use forwards and options contracts, which
qualify as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to foreign
currency exchange and commodity price risks. The effective
portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is
deferred in

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

(“OCI”) and is recognized in

Cost of sales

when
the hedged item affects earnings. We have excluded a time value
component of derivatives on certain commodity hedges from the
measurement of effectiveness. The amount of the excluded
component was not significant in 2003 and 2002.

Derivatives used to manage financial exposures
for foreign exchange and commodity price risks generally mature
within three years or less, with a maximum maturity of five
years. Cash flow hedges are discontinued when it is probable
that the original forecasted transaction will not occur. Due to
the change in contractual commitments and the discontinuation of
hedges on certain foreign currency related debt, we recognized a
net gain of $38 million in

Cost of sales

during
2003. The impact to earnings associated with hedge
ineffectiveness from cash flow hedges was recorded in

Cost of
sales

as a loss of $2 million in 2003 and a gain of
$7 million in 2002.

Net Investment Hedges

We use designated foreign currency forward
exchange contracts to hedge the net assets of certain foreign
entities to offset the translation and economic exposures
related to our investment in these entities. The change in the
value of these derivatives is recorded in OCI as a foreign
currency translation adjustment. The ineffectiveness related to
net investment hedges is recorded in

Cost of sales

. Gains
of $95 million and of $97 million were recorded in
2003 and 2002, respectively.

Other Derivative Instruments

In accordance with corporate risk management
policies, we use derivatives, such as forward contracts and
options that economically hedge certain exposures. As previously
stated, in certain instances we elect not to apply hedge
accounting, which results in recording in income on a quarterly
basis, the change in fair value of the derivative. Both the
unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivatives that
economically hedge commodity and foreign exchange exposures are

FS-29


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

reported in

Cost of Sales

. The impact to
earnings associated with non-designated hedges was a gain of
$106 million in 2003 and a loss of $541 million in
2002.

Financial Services Sector

Ford Credit’s overall risk management
objective is to maximize financing income while limiting the
effect of changes in foreign currencies and interest rates. Ford
Credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch
exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency
of the debt funding those receivables. Ford Credit also executes
cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert
substantially all of the foreign currency debt obligations to
the local currency of the receivables. Interest rate swaps are
used to manage exposure to re-pricing risk, which arises when
assets and the debt funding those assets have different
re-pricing periods that consequently respond differently to
interest rate changes.

Cash Flow Hedges

Ford Credit designates interest rate swaps as
cash flow hedges to manage its exposure to interest rate risks.
The impact to earnings associated with hedge ineffectiveness was
recognized in

Revenues

as a gain of $3 million in
2003 and a gain of $1 million in 2002. In assessing hedge
effectiveness for cash flow hedges related to interest rates,
Ford Credit uses the variability of cash flows method and
excludes accrued interest. Net interest settlements and accruals
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were
expenses of $482 million in 2003 and $765 million in
2002 and recorded in

Interest expense

. While net interest
settlements and accruals are excluded from hedge effectiveness
testing, they are included in evaluating the overall risk
management objective.

Ford Credit’s designated cash flow hedges
include hedges of revolving commercial paper balances. At
December 31, 2003, thirty months was the maximum length of
time that forecasted transactions were hedged.

Fair Value Hedges

Ford Credit uses interest rate swaps to hedge its
exposure to interest rate risk. Unrealized gains and losses on
designated fair value hedges, along with the changes in the fair
value of the underlying hedged exposure are recognized and
recorded in

Revenues

. The impact to earnings from hedge
ineffectiveness was a gain of $255 million in 2003 and a
loss of $193 million in 2002. In assessing hedge
effectiveness, we exclude certain components, representing
accrued interest on the receive and pay legs of the swap. Net
interest settlements and accrual income of $1.8 billion in
2003 and $1.5 billion in 2002 was recorded as a reduction
in

Interest expense

. Ford Credit also excludes from the
assessment of hedge effectiveness foreign exchange adjustments,
representing the portion of the derivative’s fair value
attributable to the change in foreign currency exchange rates
for the reporting period, which were favorable adjustments
totaling $1.3 billion in 2003 and $1.5 billion in
2002. While net settlements and foreign currency adjustments are
excluded from Ford Credit’s hedge effectiveness testing,
they are included in evaluating the overall risk management
objective. The favorable adjustments related to the foreign
currency derivatives reported above were offset by net
unfavorable revaluation impacts on debt denominated in a
currency other than the location’s functional currency,
which was also recorded in

Revenues.

FS-30


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

Net Investment Hedges

Ford Credit uses foreign currency forward
exchange contracts and options to hedge the net asset of certain
foreign entities to offset the translation and economic
exposures related to its investment in foreign entities. Changes
in the value of these derivatives are recorded in OCI as a
foreign currency translation adjustment. Ineffectiveness, which
is recognized in

Revenues,

was a loss of $17 million
in 2003 and the amount in 2002 was not significant.

Other Derivative Instruments

In accordance with corporate risk management
policies, Ford Credit uses derivative instruments, such as swaps
and forward contracts that economically hedge certain exposures
(foreign currency and interest rates). In certain instances,
these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
or Ford Credit elects not to apply hedge accounting
(non-designated hedges). For non-designated hedges we recorded a
gain of $58 million in 2003 and a loss of $33 million
in 2002 related to unrealized gains and losses resulting from
the effect of changes in interest rates. In addition, net
interest settlements and accruals related to derivatives that
were non-designated resulted in income of $105 million in
2003 and expense of $251 million in 2002. These net
interest settlement and accrual amounts were included in
evaluating Ford Credit’s overall risk management objective.
Unrealized and realized gains and losses related to certain
non-designated foreign currency derivatives resulted in
favorable adjustments totaling $1.9 billion in 2003 and
$1.6 billion in 2002. The favorable adjustments related to
foreign currency derivatives reported above were offset by net
unfavorable revaluation impacts on the related debt denominated
in a currency other than the location’s functional
currency. Both the unrealized and realized gains and losses on
non-designated derivatives were recorded in

Revenues

.

Summary of OCI Activity

The following table summarizes activity in OCI
excluding foreign currency translation adjustments on net
investment hedges for both the Automotive and Financial Services
sectors during the years ended December 31, (in
millions):

We expect to reclassify for Automotive and
Financial Services sectors, existing net gains of
$748 million from OCI to net income during the next twelve
months as the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. The
effects of related underlying transactions will offset future
reclassifications.

FS-31


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(Continued)

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The fair value of derivatives reflects the price
that a third party would be willing to pay or receive in
arm’s length transactions and includes mark-to-market
adjustments to reflect the effects of changes in the related
index. The following tables summarize the estimated fair value
of our derivative financial instruments, taking into
consideration the effects of legally enforceable netting
agreements, at December 31 (in billions):

NOTE 17.

OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE SECURITIES
    TRADING

The reconciliation of

Net income/(loss) from
continuing operations

to cash flows from operating
activities before securities trading is as follows (in millions):

Automotive sector cash equivalents at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $4.0 billion and
$4.4 billion, respectively; Financial Services sector cash
equivalents at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were
$14.2 billion and $5.3 billion, respectively.

FS-32


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 17.

OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE SECURITIES TRADING
    (Continued)

Cash paid/(received) for interest and income
taxes was as follows (in millions):

NOTE 18.

ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS, RESTRUCTURINGS AND
    OTHER ACTIONS


European
Charges —

Reflecting the
ongoing restructuring of the Ford Europe business unit of our
International Automotive segment, we recorded pre-tax charges in
Automotive cost of sales totaling $513 million in the third
and fourth quarters of 2003. The charges included costs
associated with employee separations. These actions and the
approximate reduction in personnel are as follows:


Sale of Kwik-Fit Holdings Ltd. and
Other —

In November 2002, we
completed the sale of our interest in Kwik-Fit Holdings Ltd.,
our European all-makes vehicle repair business, to an
acquisition company formed by CVC Capital Partners. The sales
price of £330 million (equivalent to about
$500 million) consisted of a combination of approximately
$300 million in cash and a note with a face value of
approximately $200 million. We recognized a pre-tax loss of
$519 million in cost of sales in 2002. Additionally, in
2002, we acquired a 19% equity stake in the acquisition company.
Our disposal of our interest in Kwik-Fit was not reflected as a
discontinued operation due to our continued involvement as an
equity investor in the acquisition company. In 2003, we
recognized pre-tax income of $49 million related to the
acceleration of payments received on the note.

Other pre-tax charges during the year totaled
$143 million which represented primarily impairments and
dispositions of our interest in e-commerce ventures.

European
Charges —

With respect to
our Ford Europe business unit of our International Automotive
segment, we recorded a pre-tax charge in Automotive cost of
sales of $173 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. These
actions and the approximate reduction in personnel are as
follows:

Premier Automotive Group
Charges —

We recorded a
restructuring pre-tax charge in Automotive cost of sales of
$157 million in the fourth quarter 2002 related to
workforce reductions in our Premier Automotive Group. These
actions and the approximate reduction in personnel are as
follows:

FS-33


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 18.

ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS, RESTRUCTURINGS AND
    OTHER ACTIONS (Continued)


Asset Impairment
Charges —

In response to
significantly deteriorating business conditions resulting in
operating losses, we conducted extensive business reviews of our
Automotive operations in North America and South America during
the fourth quarter. As part of these reviews, we determined that
projected undiscounted cash flows were not sufficient to justify
the carrying values of the related long-lived assets. Asset
impairment charges of $3,084 million in North America and
$744 million in South America were recorded in Automotive
cost of sales, reflecting a write-down to estimated fair value,
as determined by independent valuations. The impairment
increased depreciation, special tool amortization, and goodwill
amortization by $2,688 million, $867 million, and
$273 million, respectively.

Precious Metals Related
Charges —

Precious metals
(primarily palladium) are used in catalytic converters, which
are used in vehicles to meet required automotive emission
standards. Our business objective has been to ensure adequate
supply of these critical commodities. In 2000 and early 2001, we
acquired precious metals and entered into forward purchase
contracts at then-prevailing market prices in an environment of
uncertain supply and outlook. In the fourth quarter of 2001, our
engineers validated a breakthrough catalyst design, which will
help reduce our usage of palladium. For the precious metals
physically held, we substantially reduced our holdings in excess
of those stocking requirements. Beginning in the fourth quarter
of 2001, we wrote down the value of the excess metal to its
estimated realizable value. In addition, precious metal forward
contracts were settled in lieu of taking physical delivery of
the related metal. Therefore, as required by
SFAS No. 133, precious metal forward purchase
contracts were marked-to-market. The total pre-tax charge for
precious metals in the fourth quarter of 2001 was
$953 million.

Other Charges —

Other charges during the during the
fourth quarter of 2001 included personnel charges of
$565 million before taxes primarily reflected voluntary
salaried employee separations in North America.

Purchase of Remainder of Hertz
Corporation —

In March 2001,
we acquired (for $735 million) the common stock of Hertz
that we did not own, which represented about 18% of the economic
interest in Hertz. The excess of the purchase price over the
fair market value of net assets acquired was approximately
$390 million and was accounted for under the purchase
method.

NOTE 19.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Employee Retirement Plans

We have two principal qualified defined benefit
retirement plans in the U.S. The Ford-UAW Retirement Plan
covers hourly employees represented by the UAW, and the General
Retirement Plan covers substantially all other Ford employees in
the U.S. hired on or before December 31, 2003. The hourly
plan provides noncontributory benefits related to employee
service. The salaried plan provides similar noncontributory
benefits and contributory benefits related to pay and service.
Other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries have separate
plans that generally provide similar types of benefits for their
employees. We established, effective January 1, 2004, a
defined contribution plan generally covering new salaried
U.S. employees hired on or after that date. Ford-UAW
Retirement Plan expense accruals for UAW-represented employees
assigned to Visteon (“Visteon Hourly Employees”) are
charged to Visteon.

In general, our plans are funded, with the main
exceptions of the U.S. defined benefit plans for senior
management and certain plans in Germany; in such cases, an
unfunded liability is recorded.

FS-34


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued)

We also sponsor defined contribution plans for
certain of our U.S. and non-U.S. employees. Our
expense, primarily for matching contributions, for various plans
was $37 million in 2003, $23 million in 2002 and
$167 million in 2001.

Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance
Benefits

We, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor
plans to provide selected health care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees. Our U.S. and Canadian
employees generally may become eligible for those benefits if
they retire; however, benefits and eligibility rules may be
modified from time to time.

In 2003, we agreed to relieve Visteon of its
responsibility for the postretirement health care and life
insurance liability related to service prior to June 30,
2000 for the Visteon Hourly Employees. This resulted in a
one-time charge to expense of $1,646 million, and the
forgiveness of associated Visteon promissory notes previously
included in plan assets. Pursuant to the agreement, the expense
associated with service after June 30, 2000 for Visteon
Hourly Employees is charged to Visteon.

Postretirement health care and life insurance
expense for former salaried Ford employees who transferred to
Visteon and met certain age and service conditions at
June 30, 2000 (the “Visteon Salaried Employees”,
and, together with the Visteon Hourly Employees, the
“Visteon Employees”) is also charged to Visteon.

A long-term receivable representing
Visteon’s remaining costs of postretirement health care and
life insurance liability for the Visteon Employees in the amount
of $480 million has been recorded by Ford. We expect the
receivable to increase with expense charged to Visteon and to
decrease as Visteon or the Visteon Voluntary Employees
Beneficiary Association trust (“VEBA”) makes cash
payments to us directly in case of a payment from Visteon or to
us as Ford Plan Administrator, in case of a payment from the
Visteon VEBA.

Visteon has agreed to make a series of cash
payments to the Visteon VEBA so that by December 31, 2049,
the assets in the Visteon VEBA will equal Visteon’s
postretirement healthcare and life insurance liability for the
Visteon Employees on that date. The cash payments to the Visteon
VEBA will commence no later than January 2, 2006 for the
Visteon Hourly Employees and January 1, 2011 for the
Visteon Salaried Employees.

On December 8, 2003, the President signed
into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003. The law provides for a federal
subsidy to sponsors of retiree healthcare benefit plans that
provide a benefit at least actuarially equivalent to the benefit
established by the law. We provide retiree drug benefits that
exceed the value of the benefits that will be provided by
Medicare Part D, and our retirees’ out-of-pocket costs
are less than they would be under Medicare Part D.
Therefore, we have concluded that our plan is at least
“actuarially equivalent” to the Medicare Part D
plan and that we will be eligible for the subsidy. We have
reflected the impact of the subsidy as an unrecognized gain,
which reduced our benefit obligation by $1.8 billion at
December 31, 2003. Final authoritative guidance, when
issued by the FASB, could require us to re-determine the impact
of this legislation.

FS-35


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued)

The measurement date for our worldwide
postretirement benefit plans is December 31. Our expense
for pension, postretirement health care and life insurance
benefits was as follows (in millions):

The year-end status of these plans was as follows
(in millions):

FS-36


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued)

A one percentage point increase/ (decrease) in
the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/
(decrease) the postretirement health care benefit obligation by
approximately $4.6 billion/ $(3.8) billion and the service
and interest component of health care expense by
$310 million/ $(260) million.

Company Contributions

Our policy for funded plans is to contribute
annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws,
regulations, and union agreements. We do from time to time make
contributions beyond those legally required. For example, in
2003 we made over $2 billion of discretionary cash
contributions to our U.S. pension funds.

During 2004, we expect worldwide Company cash
outflow in respect of our defined benefit pension plans will
total $1.1 billion, consisting of contributions to pension
funds and benefit payments for unfunded plans.

FS-37


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 19.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS (Continued)

Plan Asset Information

Our investment strategy has a long-term horizon
and is tolerant of return volatility, in keeping with the
long-term nature of the liabilities. The target asset allocation
for our major plans worldwide generally is 70% equities, 30%
fixed income. The present allocation to alternative investments
is below 1%. All assets are externally managed and investment
managers have discretion to invest globally within their
respective mandates. A diverse array of investment processes
within asset classes reduces volatility. Most assets are
actively managed; manager skill and broad mandates have
generally produced long-term returns in excess of common market
indices. Ford securities comprised less than one-half of one
percent of the value of our worldwide pension plan assets during
2003 and 2002.

The equity allocation shown at year-end 2003 and
2002 includes public equity securities, private equity
investments, and REITS. Real estate investments shown separately
reflect a liquidation strategy that has been in place for
several years. Other assets include cash held for near-term
benefit funding; cash held by investment managers for liquidity
purposes is included in the appropriate asset class balance.

The long-term return assumption at year-end 2003
is 8.75% for the U.S. and averages 8.38% for
non-U.S. plans. A consistent approach generally is used
worldwide to develop this assumption. This approach utilizes
long-run equilibrium assumptions from a range of advisors for
capital market returns, inflation and other variables, adjusted
for specific aspects of our strategy. This exercise is conducted
periodically, and changes in our assumption reflect changes in
equilibrium views over time; we do not expect to modify this
assumption frequently. The long-term performance of our funds
generally has been in excess of long-term return assumptions
worldwide.

We previously established a VEBA to pay a portion
of U.S. hourly retiree health and life insurance benefits.
In December 2003, we contributed $3.5 billion to the trust,
and all the assets were invested in short-term fixed income
securities. Subsequent to year-end, VEBA assets of
$2.0 billion were invested in long-term investments, to be
managed in a strategy similar to the pension investment strategy
described previously. The remaining VEBA assets will continue to
be invested in short-term fixed income securities, a portion of
which is managed internally, with the remainder externally. The
long-term expected return assumption applicable to the total
retiree VEBA is 6.2%, reflecting the weighted average of the
expected returns on the long-term and short-term portions of the
portfolio.

NOTE 20.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company’s operating activity consists of
two operating sectors, Automotive and Financial Services.

The Automotive sector consists of the design,
development, manufacture, sale and service of cars, trucks and
service parts. In 2003, we began reporting our Automotive sector
results as two primary segments, Americas and International.

The Americas segment includes primarily the sale
of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brand vehicles and related service
parts in North America (U.S., Canada and Mexico) and Ford-brand
vehicles and related service parts in South America, and the
associated costs to design, develop, manufacture and service
these vehicles and parts.

The International segment includes primarily the
sale of Ford-brand vehicles and related service parts outside of
North and South America and the sale of Premier Automotive Group
brand vehicles (i.e., Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston
Martin) and related service parts throughout the world

FS-38


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 20.

SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)

(including North and South America), together
with the associated costs to design, develop, manufacture and
service these vehicles and parts. Additionally, the
International segment includes our share of the results of Mazda
Motor Corporation and Mazda-related joint ventures.

The Other Automotive component of the Automotive
sector consists primarily of net interest expense, which is not
managed individually by the two segments.

Transactions between Automotive segments are
presented on an absolute cost basis, eliminating the effect of
legal entity transfer prices within the Automotive sector for
vehicles, components and product engineering. Prior to 2003, the
Automotive sector was reported as one segment. Prior year
information reflects the two reporting segments within the
Automotive sector.

The Financial Services sector includes two
primary segments, Ford Credit and Hertz. Ford Credit provides
vehicle-related financing, leasing, and insurance. Hertz rents
cars, light trucks and industrial and construction equipment.

Segment selection is based upon the
organizational structure that we use to evaluate performance and
make decisions on resource allocation, as well as availability
and materiality of separate financial results consistent with
that structure.

FS-39


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 20.

SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)

(a)

Financial Services sector’s interest income
    is recorded as Revenues.

(b)

Includes intersector transactions occurring in
    the ordinary course of business.

FS-40


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 21. GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION

NOTE 22. SUMMARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA (UNAUDITED)

NOTE 23. COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES

Lease Commitments

We lease land, buildings and equipment under
agreements that expire in various years. Minimum rental
commitments under non-cancelable operating leases were as
follows (in millions):

Rental expense was $1.3 billion in 2003,
$1.1 billion in 2002 and $1.0 billion in 2001.

FS-41


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 23. COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

Guarantees

On November 26, 2002, FASB issued
Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”),

Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others

. For certain guarantees issued after
December 31, 2002, FIN 45 requires a guarantor to
recognize, upon issuance of a guarantee, a liability for the
fair value of the guarantee. The fair values of guarantees and
indemnifications issued during 2003 are recorded in the
financial statements and are de minimis. At December 31,
2003, the following guarantees were issued and outstanding:

Guarantees related to affiliates and third
parties:

We guarantee debt and lease
obligations of certain joint ventures as well as certain
financial obligations of outside third parties to support
business and economic growth. Expiration dates vary, and
guarantees will terminate on payment and/or cancellation of the
obligation. A payment would be triggered by failure of the
guaranteed party to fulfill its obligation covered by the
guarantee. In some circumstances, we are entitled to recover
from the third party amounts paid by us under the guarantee.
However, our ability to enforce these rights is sometimes stayed
until the guaranteed party is paid in full. The maximum
potential payments under these guarantees total approximately
$465 million, the majority of which relates to the
Automotive sector.

In 1992, we issued $500 million of 7.25%
Notes due October 1, 2008 (“Notes”). In 1999, the
bondholders agreed to relieve us as the primary obligor with
respect to the principal of these Notes. As part of this
transaction, Ford placed certain financial assets into an escrow
trust for the benefit of the bondholders, and the trust became
the primary obligor with respect to the principal (Ford became
secondarily liable for the entire principal amount).
Approximately $150 million is recorded in the financial
statements as

Senior debt

related to this transaction,
which is being amortized over the life of the Notes.

We also have guarantees outstanding associated
with two subsidiary trusts, Trust I and Trust II. For further
discussions of Trust I and Trust II, see Notes 12 and 14.

Sales to third parties of Automotive
receivables, with recourse:

From time
to time, the Automotive sector sells receivables to third
parties with recourse. Receivables are sold on a rolling basis
and individual sales liquidate at different times. A payment
would be triggered by failure of the obligor to fulfill its
obligations covered by the contract. The maximum potential
amount of future payments is approximately $14 million.

Indemnifications:

In
the ordinary course of business, we execute contracts involving
indemnifications standard in the industry and indemnifications
specific to a transaction such as the sale of a business. These
indemnifications might include claims against any of the
following: environmental, tax and shareholder matters;
intellectual property rights; governmental regulations and
employment-related matters; dealer, supplier, and other
commercial contractual relationships; and financial matters,
such as securitizations. Performance under these indemnities
would generally be triggered by a breach of terms of the
contract or by a third party claim. We regularly evaluate the
probability of having to incur costs associated with these
indemnifications and have accrued for expected losses that are
probable. We are party to numerous indemnifications and many of
these

FS-42


FORD MOTOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — Continued

NOTE 23. COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

indemnities do not limit potential payment;
therefore, we are unable to estimate a maximum amount of
potential future payments that could result from claims made
under these indemnities.

Product Performance,
Warranty:

Estimated warranty costs and
additional service actions are accrued for at the time the
vehicle is sold to a dealer. Included in the warranty cost
accruals are costs for basic warranty coverages on vehicles
sold. Product recalls and other customer service actions are not
included in the warranty reconciliation below but are also
accrued for at the time of sale. Estimates for warranty costs
are made based primarily on historical warranty claim
experience. The following is a tabular reconciliation of the
product warranty accrual (in millions):

*

Other includes newly consolidated VIEs (see
    Note 13).

Litigation and Claims

Various legal actions, governmental
investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be
instituted or asserted in the future against us, including those
arising out of alleged defects in our products; governmental
regulations relating to safety, emissions and fuel economy;
financial services; employment-related matters; dealer, supplier
and other contractual relationships; intellectual property
rights; product warranties; environmental matters; and
shareholder matters. Certain of the pending legal actions are,
or purport to be, class actions. Some of the foregoing matters
involve or may involve compensatory, punitive, or antitrust or
other treble damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for
recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions,
or other relief, which, if granted, would require very large
expenditures.

Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and
the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable
with assurance. We have established accruals for certain of the
matters discussed in the foregoing paragraph where losses are
deemed probable. It is reasonably possible, however, that some
of the matters discussed in the foregoing paragraph for which
accruals have not been established could be decided unfavorably
to us and could require us to pay damages or make other
expenditures in amounts or a range of amounts that cannot be
estimated at December 31, 2003. We do not reasonably
expect, based on our analysis, that such matters would have a
material effect on future financial statements for a particular
year, although such an outcome is possible.

FS-43


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Ford Motor Company:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of income,
of stockholders’ equity and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Ford Motor
Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion,
the accompanying sector balance sheet and the related sector
statements of income and of cash flows, presented for purposes
of additional analysis, present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated and sector financial statements (collectively,
the “financial statements”) are the responsibility of
the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these financial statements in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States
of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to the financial
statements, on January 1, 2003, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure.” As
discussed in Note 13 to the financial statements, on
July 1, 2003, the Company adopted Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB
No. 51.” As discussed in Note 7 to the financial
statements, on January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
As discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, on
January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets.”

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Detroit, Michigan

March 10, 2004

FS-44


Ford Motor Company

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

(in millions)

(a)

Finance receivables and lease investments deemed
    to be uncollectible and other changes, principally amounts
    related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments.

(b)

Accounts and notes receivable deemed to be
    uncollectible and translation adjustments.

(c)

Net change in inventory allowances.

FSS-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Ford Motor Company:

Our audits of the financial statements referred
to in our report dated March 10, 2004 appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15.(a)2. of
this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Detroit, Michigan

March 10, 2004

FSS-2


EXHIBIT INDEX