ITEM 1 BUSINESS

CORPORATE BACKGROUND

General

Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of innovative business and financial management solutions for small and medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting professionals and financial institutions. Our flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken, simplify small business management including payment and payroll processing, tax preparation and filing, and personal finance. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit’s leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Our Intuit Financial Services business provides online banking solutions and services to banks and credit unions that help them make it easier for consumers to manage their money and pay their bills.

We had revenue of

$3.9 billion

in our fiscal year ended

July 31, 2011

, and had approximately 8,000 employees in major offices in the United States, Canada, India, the United Kingdom and other locations at that time.

Intuit was incorporated in California in March 1984. We reincorporated in Delaware and completed our initial public offering in March 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2700 Coast Avenue, Mountain View, California, 94043, and our main telephone number is 650-944-6000. Our corporate website,

www.intuit.com

, provides materials for investors and information relating to Intuit’s corporate governance. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. When we refer to “we,” “our” or “Intuit” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (Intuit Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries.

Available Information

We file reports required of public companies with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and amendments to these reports. The public may read and copy the materials we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at

www.sec.gov

that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website all of the reports we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished. Copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Intuit Inc., P.O. Box 7850, Mountain View, California 94039-7850 or by calling 650-944-6000.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

Intuit’s Mission

We seek to be a premier innovative growth company that improves our customers’ financial lives so profoundly they can’t imagine going back to the old way.

Our customers include small and medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting professionals and financial institutions. We help them solve important business and financial management problems, such as running a small business, paying bills and income taxes, or managing personal finances. Our innovative products and services simplify the lives of more than 50 million people, helping them save and make money.

Emerging technology and market trends are changing the way people live and work, and the way we help customers. We’re evolving, too. We've adapted our product line, moving from the desktop to the Web and mobile devices. By offering many services online, we're connecting customers to our solutions and with each other in ways that add more value to our products


Tables of Contents

and services. We’re taking a global view as well, whether helping our customers expand their business to overseas markets, creating and selling our own products internationally, or extending our hiring horizons beyond geographic borders.

Our Business Portfolio

We organize our portfolio of businesses into four principal categories — Small Business Group, Tax, Financial Services and Other Businesses. These categories include seven financial reporting segments.

Small Business Group:

This category includes three segments — Financial Management Solutions, Employee Management Solutions, and Payment Solutions.

•

Our Financial Management Solutions segment includes QuickBooks financial and business management software and services; technical support; financial supplies; and Intuit Websites, which provides website design and hosting services for small and medium-sized businesses.

•

Our Employee Management Solutions segment provides payroll products and services for small businesses.

•

Our Payment Solutions segment provides merchant services for small businesses, including credit and debit card processing, electronic check conversion and automated clearing house services.

Tax:

This category includes two segments — Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals.

•

Our Consumer Tax segment includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services for consumers and small businesses.

•

Our Accounting Professionals segment includes Lacerte, ProSeries and ProLine Tax Online professional tax products and services. This segment also includes QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and the QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program for accounting professionals.

Financial Services:

This segment consists primarily of outsourced online financial management solutions for banks and credit unions provided by our Intuit Financial Services business.

Other Businesses:

This segment includes Quicken personal finance products and services, Mint.com online personal finance services, Intuit Health online patient-to-provider communication solutions, and our businesses in Canada, the United Kingdom, India and Singapore.

Our Growth Strategy

We innovate to drive growth, adapting our approach to meet changing demographic, technology, market and geographic trends. We build innovative offerings to solve our customers’ problems, based upon our three-point growth strategy.

•

Driving growth in our core businesses.

We’re committed to helping consumers, small businesses and accountants save and make money through our core business offerings, including TurboTax, Quicken, QuickBooks, ProSeries and Lacerte. In addition, we offer other relevant products to encourage existing customers to upgrade to more feature-rich versions that meet their personal and business needs.

•

Building adjacent businesses and entering new geographies.

By pursuing partnerships, completing acquisitions and creating new offerings, we’re accelerating our entry into new businesses.  The Intuit Payment Network, for example, increases the value of QuickBooks by giving businesses an electronic alternative to accepting checks for payment. Intuit Health provides clinical, administrative and financial services that connect providers and patients.

•

Accelerating our transition to connected services.

Through our Connected Services strategy, we’re providing new ways for people and businesses to connect with each other and use their data to full advantage, whether on the desktop, the Web or mobile devices. Intuit ProLine Tax Online, for example, lets accounting professionals prepare and file tax returns for consumer and small business clients online rather than on the desktop. Through this strategy we intend to delight customers by offering easy-to-use connected services that solve their problems, while building a durable competitive advantage for Intuit.

This strategy recognizes the emergence and influence of the digital generation, the increasing relevance of social networks, and customers’ growing reliance on the Web, mobile devices and information-based technology to manage important tasks. It also acknowledges the potential of new market opportunities in rapidly developing economies. The end result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand and embrace the benefits of connected services.


Tables of Contents

Our Connected Services Vision

To meet the needs of an increasingly connected world, we are moving aggressively on three fronts to create products and services that are available how, where and when customers want them.

•

How we connect people: Our products bring people and services together. They connect customers to the cloud, and people to each other. And in the burgeoning social arena, we've created online communities, available in nearly every product, that allow customers to connect and work together to share insights, advice and expertise.

Our

software-advantaged services

enable customers to seamlessly connect our products, such as QuickBooks, to other offerings, such as small business payroll.

Our

software as a service

offerings, also known as SaaS, connect customers to our online products, such as TurboTax Online or QuickBooks Online.

And we are increasingly using our products as a platform, or

platform as a service,

to connect people to each other - and to us - enabling them to share information and solve problems together.

The Intuit Partner Platform enables third-party developers to create and sell applications to our customers.

•

Where we connect people: Mobility is mandatory - for customers and Intuit. As smartphones and tablets become indispensible, we're developing products that customers can use wherever they are and on whatever device they carry. This focus helps us acquire new customers by putting our products on the newest devices, and improves ease of use on existing products.

•

When we connect them: Availability is essential. Customers demand the convenience of accessing our services and their data from anywhere, at any time. As we move to the cloud, we're working to provide the reliability customers expect and the functionality to help them improve their financial lives, while securely protecting their information. We're committed to providing customers with highly reliable service that meets or exceeds industry standards.

We continue to make significant progress in this environment. Connected services generated $2.4 billion, or more than 60 percent of our total revenue in the


fiscal year. Within connected services, software-as-a-service offerings by themselves produced about $1.5 billion, or nearly 40 percent of our total revenue in that period.

Summary

Generations age. Borders blur. Technology advances. As the way we live and work evolves, we adapt our strategy to meet and lead these changes. Yet our commitment remains consistent: Developing innovative products and services that are so convenient and easy to use that customers actively recommend them to others. It’s been our success formula for more than a quarter-century as we’ve worked to solve people’s important business and financial management problems. And we’ll maintain that commitment as we continue to evolve, working to help people solve each other’s problems, connecting people to people and to solutions, wherever they are, whenever they want them.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We offer our products and services in the seven business segments described in

“Business Overview”

above. The following table shows the classes of similar products or services, consistent with our reportable segments, that accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the last three fiscal years.


Tables of Contents

Our products and services are sold mainly in the United States and are described below. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for fiscal


,


and


. For financial information about these segments, see

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”

in Item 7 and Note 15 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this report.

Financial Management Solutions

QuickBooks.

Our QuickBooks product line brings bookkeeping capabilities and business management tools to small and medium-sized business users in an easy-to-use design that does not require them to be familiar with debit and credit accounting. We offer a range of desktop and online products and services to suit the needs of different types of businesses. Our desktop software products include QuickBooks Pro and QuickBooks Pro for Mac, which provide accounting functionality for small businesses; QuickBooks Premier, which provides small businesses with advanced accounting functionality and business planning tools; and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions, designed for larger businesses. Our Premier and Enterprise products also come in a range of industry-specific editions, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, Professional Services, and Retail. Our online offerings include QuickBooks Simple Start Online, which provides accounting functionality suitable for very small, less complex businesses. QuickBooks Online Essentials and QuickBooks Online Plus provide online accounting functionality suitable for slightly larger businesses. All three offerings allow multiple users to access the application from any location via the Internet using a personal computer, tablet device or smartphone.

QuickBooks Technical Support

. We offer several technical support options to our QuickBooks customers. These include support plans that are sold separately and priced based on the length of the plan. We also offer a limited amount of free technical support assistance to customers, a free self-help information section on our QuickBooks.com website and free access to the QuickBooks Community, an online forum where QuickBooks users can share information with each other.

Websites for Small Businesses.

Our Intuit Websites offering helps small businesses establish a presence on the Web, maintain and promote their websites, and sell or market their products and services online.

Financial Supplies

. We offer a range of financial supplies designed for small businesses and individuals that use QuickBooks and Quicken. These include standard paper checks and CheckLock voucher checks with advanced fraud protection features; envelopes, invoices and deposit slips; and business identity products such as business cards and stationery. We also offer tax forms, tax return presentation folders and other supplies for professional tax preparers.

QuickBase.

Our QuickBase offering is a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform that allows business users to select ready-made online workgroup applications or create custom solutions for their businesses. The most common solutions include project collaboration, sales team management and employee management. QuickBase customers pay a monthly or annual subscription fee that varies based on the number of users and the amount of data and file storage they need.

Intuit Partner Platform:

The Intuit Partner Platform provides the tools developers need to create Web and mobile applications that add value to QuickBooks. The platform allows developers to build applications that integrate with QuickBooks data  and solve the unique needs of our customers. Developers can create applications on the Intuit Partner Platform using any development platform they choose, and must pass a standards and security check before offering their programs to customers. All applications are available through the Intuit App Center at

apps.com

. Here QuickBooks users can find, buy and use applications connected to the platform. A growing number of companies already offer applications built for the platform, including Bill.com, Expensify and Salesforce.com. In addition, FreshBooks and eBay have applications in development which are expected to be available in fiscal 2012.

Employee Management Solutions

QuickBooks Payroll.

QuickBooks Payroll is a family of products sold on a subscription basis to small businesses that use QuickBooks and prepare their own payroll or want some assistance with preparing their payroll. It is also sold to accountants who use QuickBooks and help their clients manage their payrolls. The product family includes:

•

QuickBooks Basic Payroll, which provides payroll tax tables and payroll reports;

•

QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll, which provides payroll tax tables, payroll reports, federal and state payroll tax forms, and eFile & Pay for federal and state payroll taxes;

•

QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll for Accountants, which has several accountant-specific features in addition to the features in QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; and

•

QuickBooks Online Payroll, for use with QuickBooks Online.


Tables of Contents

We also offer QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, through which we provide the back-end aspects of payroll processing, including tax payments and filings, for customers who process their payrolls using QuickBooks. Direct deposit is included with QuickBooks Online Payroll and available with each of the other offerings for an additional fee.

Intuit Online Payroll.

Intuit Online Payroll provides small business payroll services that do not require the use of QuickBooks. This offering is sold on a subscription basis and includes online payroll tax calculation, payroll reports, federal and state payroll tax forms, electronic payment of federal and state payroll taxes, and direct deposit.

Intuit Full Service Payroll.

This offering is also sold on a subscription basis and provides comprehensive payroll services to customers who prefer not to perform payroll tasks themselves. Intuit Full Service Payroll does not require the use of QuickBooks and includes initial setup of payroll records, processing of payrolls based on information submitted online by the payroll customer, direct deposit of paychecks, electronic payment of federal and state payroll taxes, electronic filing of federal and state payroll tax forms, and preparation and issuance of year end W-2 forms.

Other Employee Management Solutions.

We offer workers’ compensation administration and 401(k) administration services to small business employers for additional fees.

Payment Solutions

Merchant Services.

We offer a full range of merchant services to small businesses that include credit card, debit card, electronic benefits, and gift card processing services; check verification, check guarantee, and electronic check conversion, including automated clearing house (ACH) and Check 21 capabilities; and Web-based transaction processing services for online merchants. In addition to transaction processing services, we provide a full range of support for our clients that includes customer service, merchant and consumer collections, chargeback and retrieval support, and fraud and loss prevention screening.

GoPayment.

GoPayment allows users to accept credit card payments using a smartphone or tablet device. They can enter the credit card information manually or use a card swiper that attaches to the phone to capture the information. They can also send electronic receipts to their customers via email or text message.

Point of Sale Solutions

. We offer Basic and Pro versions of QuickBooks Point of Sale, which helps retailers process sales using barcodes, track inventory and customer purchases, and integrates with QuickBooks financial software. The Pro version has advanced inventory features and provides the ability to manage up to 20 stores from a single office. We sell these software products with or without the accompanying hardware and technical support.

Consumer Tax

Our TurboTax products and services are designed to enable individuals and small business owners to prepare and file their own federal and state personal and small business income tax returns quickly and accurately. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. Some of these offerings are available on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.

Tax Return Preparation Offerings

. For the


tax season we offered a range of software products and services that included desktop and online versions of TurboTax Basic, for simple returns; TurboTax Deluxe, for taxpayers who itemize deductions; TurboTax Premier, for taxpayers who own investments or rental property; and TurboTax Home and Business, for small business owners. We also offered TurboTax Business desktop software for larger businesses; TurboTax Free Edition online for the simplest returns; and SnapTax, an application that allows users with simple federal and state returns to prepare and electronically file them from their smartphones. These offerings are subject to change for the


tax season. TurboTax Live Community is an online forum where participants can learn from and share information with other users while preparing their income tax returns.

Electronic Filing and Other Services

. Our desktop, online and mobile tax preparation customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing center. For the


tax season our online tax preparation and filing services were offered through the websites of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants, and on Yahoo!® Finance Tax Center, MSN Money® Tax Center and AOL Tax Center. Financial institutions can offer our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online or through TurboTax for Online Banking, which provides functionality that is integrated with their online banking services. For the


tax season we also offered TurboTax customers the option to receive their income tax refunds on a prepaid debit card.


Tables of Contents

Intuit Tax Freedom Project

. Under the Intuit Tax Freedom Project, we provide online federal and state income tax return preparation and electronic filing services at no charge to eligible taxpayers. In fiscal


we provided approximately 1.3 million free federal returns under this initiative. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government to provide free online federal tax preparation and filing services to eligible taxpayers. See also

“Competition — Consumer Tax”

later in this Item 1 for more information on the Free File Alliance.

Accounting Professionals

Our Accounting Professionals segment provides software and services for accountants and tax preparers in public practice. These include offerings that help professional accountants and tax preparers provide accounting, payroll, tax planning and tax compliance services to their individual and business clients, and that help them manage their own practices more effectively.

Tax Offerings

. Our tax offerings for accounting professionals are Lacerte, ProSeries and ProLine Tax Online. Lacerte software is designed for full-service accounting firms that prepare the most complex returns. We offer two versions of our ProSeries software: ProSeries Professional Edition, designed for year-round tax practices that prepare moderately complex tax returns; and ProSeries Basic Edition, designed for the needs of smaller and seasonal tax practices. ProLine Tax Online is designed for year-round tax practices that prepare moderately complex tax returns and want the advantages of an online offering. Accounting professionals license these tax products for a flat fee for unlimited use, or use them to print or electronically file tax returns on a “pay-per-return” basis. Accountants and tax preparers using Lacerte, ProSeries and Proline Tax Online can file their clients’ tax returns using our electronic filing services.

Accounting Offerings

. Our accounting offering for professionals, QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition, provides the tools and file-sharing capabilities needed to efficiently complete bookkeeping, trial balance, write-up, and financial reporting tasks. Our QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program is a subscription-based membership that provides QuickBooks and QuickBooks Payroll software for professional accountants, technical support, training, product certification, access to marketing tools and discounts on products purchased on behalf of clients.

Financial Services

Our Intuit Financial Services business provides outsourced online banking solutions that are hosted in our data centers and delivered as on-demand services to medium-sized financial institutions. We also work with these financial institutions to provide other Intuit products and services, such as TurboTax for Online Banking, to their customers.

We offer online banking services that financial institutions make available to their retail customers. These services include the ability to view transaction history, account balances, check images and statements; fund transfers between accounts; inter-institutional transfers; bill payment and bill presentment; Personal FinanceWorks, our comprehensive online personal financial management solution; and TurboTax for Online Banking, which provides tax preparation and filing services that are integrated with online banking. Several of these services can be accessed from mobile devices.

Other Businesses

Personal Finance

Our personal finance offerings help users organize, understand and manage their personal finances. Our Quicken line of desktop software products allow customers to reconcile bank accounts, pay bills, record credit card and other transactions, and track investments, mortgages and other assets and liabilities. Quicken also allows customers to flag their tax-related financial transactions and download that information into our TurboTax consumer tax return preparation software. We offer Quicken Starter Edition and Quicken Deluxe as well as Quicken Premier, which offers more robust investment and tax planning tools; Quicken Home and Business, which allows customers to manage both personal and small business finances in one application; and Quicken Essentials for Mac. Our Mint.com personal finance service is free to users and shows them all of their financial accounts in one online location; provides tools that help them set up budgets and monitor spending; identifies money-saving ideas; and provides step-by-step guidance and advice on achieving their financial goals. We also offer a Mint application that is accessible from smartphones.

Intuit Health

Our Intuit Health offerings provide online patient-to-provider communication solutions. Services are delivered through a standard Web browser on a subscription basis and typically include features such as appointment scheduling, patient pre-registration, prescription renewal and electronic bill payment.


Tables of Contents

Global Business

In Canada, we offer versions of QuickBooks that we have “localized,” that is, customized to meet the unique needs of customers in that specific international location. These include QuickBooks software offerings, payroll offerings and service plans. We also offer consumer tax return preparation software, professional tax preparation products and services, merchant payment processing services, and localized versions of Quicken and Mint in Canada. In the United Kingdom, we offer localized versions of QuickBooks and QuickBooks Payroll, including products and services sold in partnership with banks. In Singapore, we offer a localized version of Quickbooks Online in partnership with a large telecommunications provider. In India, we offer Intuit Money Manager, a mobile personal financial management solution, in partnership with a large Indian bank.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Since the markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements, a continuous high level of investment is required to innovate and quickly develop new products and services as well as enhance existing offerings. Our product development efforts are becoming more important than ever as we pursue our Connected Services strategy, which reflects a world where people and businesses are increasingly connected by technology and expect access to services at any time in any place.

We develop many of our products and services internally. We have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our Connected Services strategy.

Our traditional core desktop software products — QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, ProSeries and Quicken — tend to have predictable annual development and product release cycles. We also develop innovative new offerings such as Intuit GoPayment for which development cycles can be more rapid. Developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our payroll, merchant services, financial institutions, and patient-to-provider communication offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project.

In our Financial Services business, we have developed interfaces with the systems of many of the major providers of core processing software and services to financial institutions. These system interfaces allow us to access a financial institution’s host system to provide end users access to their account data. In addition to developing new interfaces, we continue to enhance our many existing interfaces in order to deliver more robust connectivity and increase operating efficiencies.

We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services and on developing new products and services that will offer increased ease of use, be customized for specific customer categories, be Web-based or mobile, and feature improved integration with other Intuit and third party products and services and with our internal information systems. We also expect to continue to focus significant research and development efforts on ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. Our research and development expenses were

$634

million or

16%

of total net revenue in fiscal


;

$573

million or

17%

of total net revenue in fiscal


; and

$556

million or

18%

of total net revenue in fiscal


.

SEASONALITY

Our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals businesses are highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products tends to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has been occurring later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which revenue is recognized upon printing or electronic filing of a tax return. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift from our second fiscal quarter to future fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third


Tables of Contents

quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31, when revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while operating expenses continue at relatively consistent levels. We believe the seasonality of our revenue and profitability is likely to continue in the future.

MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS

Markets

Our primary target customers are small and medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting professionals, and medium-sized financial institutions. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. Over the past several years, the widespread availability of the Internet, mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate and purchase products and services.

Real-time, personalized online and mobile shopping experiences are rapidly becoming the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This creates a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, alternative distribution methods and other changes in the way we do business.

Our target customers for online banking services are medium-sized financial institutions seeking an outsourced solution that allows them to compete with the larger national banks in their market. We also provide online financial management solutions to financial institution customers of core processors.

Marketing Programs

To sell our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals, we use a variety of traditional and innovative marketing programs to generate software orders, stimulate demand, and generally maintain and increase customer awareness of our product portfolio. These programs include: Web marketing and targeted advertising, such as search engine optimization and purchasing key words from major search engine companies; placing and promoting our mobile applications in "app stores;" direct-response mail and email campaigns; telephone solicitations; newspaper, magazine, billboard, radio and television advertising; social media campaigns; and coordinated promotional offers with major retailers. We also use workflow-integrated, in-product discovery in some of our software products to market other related products and services, including third-party products and services. In addition, we create marketing campaigns that attract new users through free promotional offerings that are designed to ultimately convert them to paying customers.

Our Financial Services business focuses its marketing efforts on identifying potential financial institution clients and marketing our online banking services to consumer end users in cooperation with our financial institution clients. We also work with these financial institutions to provide their customers with other Intuit products and services, such as TurboTax for Online Banking.

Sales and Distribution Channels

Multi-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences.

Our consumer and small and medium-sized business customers increasingly use the Internet and mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, to research products and services. Some customers buy and use our products and services entirely online or through their mobile devices. Others purchase desktop products and services using the Internet. Still others make their final decision at a retail location. We coordinate our websites, promotions and retail displays to support this integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy model.

Direct Sales Channel

. We sell many of our products and services for small and medium-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals directly through our websites and call centers. Telesales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers that want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs.

Our Financial Services business sells its products and services to financial institutions using a direct sales model and, to a lesser but increasing extent, in cooperation with core processing partners. Our typical sales cycle is approximately nine to 18 months for new financial institutions, and four to six months for add-on sales to existing customers.

Retail Channel

. We sell our QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken desktop software, as well as our QuickBooks Payroll and Intuit Online Payroll services and merchant credit card payment processing services, at retail locations across the United States. We sell these products and services directly and through distributors to office supply superstores, warehouse clubs, consumer electronics retailers, general mass merchandisers, online retailers and catalogs. In Canada and other international markets we


Tables of Contents

also rely on distributors and other third parties who sell products into the retail channel. The retail channel provides broad customer reach through retailer-sponsored advertising and exposure to retail foot traffic. This channel also gives us the opportunity to communicate our products, services and messages through multiple touch points and allows us to serve our customers at relatively modest cost.

Other Channels.

We have strategies to address the alliance partner, solution provider and personal computer hardware manufacturer channels. Revenue from these channels is currently less significant than revenue from our direct and retail channels, but it is growing. We sell our consumer and small business products and services through selected alliance partners, primarily banks, credit unions, and securities and investment firms. These alliance partners help us reach new customers at the point of transaction and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. Solution providers combine our products and services with value-added marketing, sales and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. Relationships with selected personal computer hardware manufacturers help us attract new customers for our core software offerings. As we expand our mobile and global offerings, we expect that strategic partnerships will become increasingly important to our business. For example, we are marketing and selling some of our offerings through mobile phone service and hardware providers.

Our Financial Services business has joint marketing arrangements with several core processing vendors. They include Fiserv, Inc.; Open Solutions, Inc.; Fidelity Information Services, Inc.; and Computer Services Inc. To deliver bill payment and bill presentment services to our financial institution customers, we also maintain value-added reseller relationships with major providers such as Fidelity Information Services and Fiserv.

COMPETITION

Overview

We face intense competition in all of our businesses, both domestically and internationally. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve, particularly small business, consumer tax and online banking, have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. Some of our existing competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, the competitive landscape can shift rapidly as new companies enter markets in which we compete. This is particularly true for online products and services, where the barriers to entry are lower than they are for desktop software products and services. To attract customers, many online competitors are offering free or low-priced entry-level products which we must take into account in our pricing strategies.

Our most obvious competition comes from other companies that offer technology solutions similar to ours. However, for many of our products and services, other important competitive alternatives for customers are third party service providers such as professional accountants and seasonal assisted tax preparation businesses. Manual tools and processes, or general-purpose software, are also important competitive alternatives. Many of our new customers previously used pencil and paper or software such as word processors and spreadsheets, rather than competitors’ software and services, to perform financial tasks. We believe that there is a long-term trend away from manual methods and toward the use of desktop and online software as well as mobile devices to accomplish these tasks that will continue to provide growth opportunities.

Competition Specific to Business Segments

Small Business Group.

Our QuickBooks desktop product is the leading small business financial management software in the U.S. retail channel. Our small business products and services face competitive challenges from companies such as The Sage Group plc, which offers software and associated services that directly target small business customers. Increasingly, our small business products and services also face competition from free or low-cost online accounting offerings as well as free online banking and bill payment services offered by financial institutions and others. In our payroll business we compete directly with Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), Paychex and many other companies with payroll offerings, including online payroll offerings. In our merchant services business we compete directly with large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America and with many payment processors, including First Data Corporation, Elavon, Global Payments and FIS-Certegy.

Consumer Tax

. In the private sector we face intense competition from H&R Block, which provides assisted tax preparation services in its stores and a competing software offering called H&R Block At Home, and from several other tax preparation service providers and online offerings, including 2nd Story Software’s TaxACT. These competing offerings subject us to significant price pressure.


Tables of Contents

We also face competitive challenges in our Consumer Tax business from publicly funded government entities that offer electronic tax preparation and filing services at no cost to individual taxpayers. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government. Under this agreement, the member companies provide online federal tax preparation and filing services at no cost to eligible federal taxpayers, and the federal government has agreed not to provide a competing service. Approximately 20 states have also adopted Free File Alliance public-private agreements while approximately 20 other states offer some form of direct government tax preparation and filing services free to qualified taxpayers. We continue to actively work with others in the private and public sectors to advance the goals of the Free File Alliance policy initiative and to support successful public-private partnerships. However, future administrative, regulatory or legislative activity in this area could harm our Consumer Tax business.

Accounting Professionals.

Our Lacerte professional tax offerings face competition from competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include integration with non-tax functionality. These include CCH’s ProSystems fx Office Suite and Thomson Reuters’ CS Professional Suite and GoSystems Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face competition from CCH’s ATX and TaxWise offerings. We also face growing competition from online tax and accounting offerings, which may be marketed more effectively or have lower pricing than our offerings for accounting professionals.

Financial Services.

The market for online banking services is highly competitive. In the area of consumer online banking, a number of companies offer outsourced online banking services to financial institutions, including Online Resources, S1 Corporation and FundsXpress (a subsidiary of First Data Corporation). In addition, several companies whose primary offerings are core processing or bill payment processing services also provide online banking services. These companies include Fiserv, Inc., Open Solutions, Inc., Fidelity Information Services, Inc., and Jack Henry. In addition, many of these firms offer our products through a referral or reseller arrangement with us. We also compete for new customers with relatively recent entrants into the online financial management solutions market. As we negotiate service contract renewals with current customers, competitive pressures may require us to make concessions on pricing and other material terms to convince these customers to remain with us.

Competitive Factors

We believe the most important competitive factors for our core offerings — QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, ProSeries and Quicken — are ease of use, product features, size of the installed customer base, brand name recognition, value proposition, cost, reliability, and product and support quality. Access to distribution channels is also important for our QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken software products. In addition, support from accounting professionals and the ability for customers to upgrade within product families as their businesses grow are significant competitive factors for our QuickBooks products. Productivity is an important competitive factor for the full-service accounting firms to which we market our Lacerte software products. We believe we compete effectively on these factors as our QuickBooks, TurboTax, and Quicken products are the leading products in the U.S. retail sales channel for their respective categories.

For our service offerings such as small business payroll, merchant payment processing, outsourced online banking, and patient-to-provider communication solutions, features and ease of use, the integration of these products with related software, brand name recognition, effective distribution, quality of support, cost, and scalability of operations are important competitive factors.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

We provide customer service and technical support by telephone, e-mail, online chat, text messaging, online communities, and our customer service and technical support websites. We have full-time and outsourced customer service and technical support staffs. We supplement these staffs with seasonal employees and additional outsourcing during periods of peak call volumes, such as during the tax return filing season or following a major product launch. We outsource to several firms domestically and internationally. Most of our internationally outsourced consumer and small business customer service and technical support personnel are currently located in India and the Philippines.

We offer free self-help information through our technical support websites for our QuickBooks, TurboTax, Accounting Professionals and Quicken software products. Customers can use our websites to find answers to commonly asked questions and check on the status of orders. Under certain support plans, customers can also use our websites to receive product updates electronically. Support alternatives and fees vary by product. We also sponsor online user communities such as Intuit Community for small businesses and accounting professionals, and TurboTax Live Community, where consumers can share knowledge and product advice with each other.


Tables of Contents

MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION

Desktop Software and Supplies

The key processes in manufacturing desktop software are manufacturing compact discs (CDs), printing boxes and related materials, and assembling and shipping the final products.

For retail manufacturing, we have an agreement with Arvato Digital Services, Inc. (ADiS), a division of Bertelsmann AG, under which ADiS provides a majority of the manufacturing volume for our launches of QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken, as well as for day-to-day replenishment after product launches. ADiS has operations in multiple locations that can provide redundancy if necessary. We also have an agreement with JVC America Inc. under which JVC provides secondary outsourced manufacturing volume for these launches and for day-to-day replenishment.

For retail distribution, we have an agreement with ADiS under which ADiS handles all logistics services. Our retail product launches are operationally complex. Our model for product delivery for retail launches and replenishment is a hybrid of direct to store deliveries and shipments to central warehouse locations. This allows improved inventory management by our retailers. We also ship products for many of our smaller retail customers through distributors.

ADiS also provides most of the manufacturing volume and distribution services for our direct desktop software orders. We have an exclusive agreement with Harland Clarke, a division of M&F Worldwide Corporation, to fulfill orders for all of our printed checks and most other products for our financial supplies business.

We have multiple sources for all of our raw materials and availability has historically not been a significant problem for us.

Prior to major product releases for our core desktop software products we tend to have significant levels of backlog, but at other times backlog is minimal and we typically ship products within a few days of receiving an order. Because of this fluctuation in backlog, we believe that backlog is not a reliable predictor of our future core desktop software sales.

Online Products and Services

Intuit’s data centers house most of the systems, networks and databases required to operate and deliver our online products and services. These include QuickBooks Online, online payroll services, merchant payment processing services, website hosting services for small businesses, TurboTax Online, ProLine Tax Online, consumer and professional electronic tax filing services, outsourced online banking services, and Mint.com. Through our data centers, we connect customers to our products and services and store customer and business information. As our businesses continue to move toward delivering more online products and services in conjunction with our Connected Services strategy, our infrastructure will become even more critical in the future.

Currently we have a number of data centers that are primarily located in the western United States. We are executing on a multi-year plan to transition to fewer data centers in more geographically diverse locations. Our primary data center is located in Washington state and over time we expect this data center to support the hosting and high availability requirements of many of our existing and future connected services offerings. We have a primary backup facility at a co-located data center in Nevada.

PRIVACY AND SECURITY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION AND TRANSACTIONS

We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations and to financial institution requirements relating to the privacy and security of customer and employee personal information. We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to the Internet, behavioral tracking, telemarketing, email activities, data hosting and retention, financial and health information, and credit reporting. Additional laws in all of these areas are likely to be passed in the future, which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the ways in which we can collect, use, host, store or transmit the personal information and data of our customers or employees, communicate with our customers, and deliver products and services, or may significantly increase our compliance costs. If our business expands to new industry segments and new uses of data that are regulated for privacy and security, or to countries outside the United States that have strict data protections laws, our compliance requirements and costs will increase.

Through a Master Privacy Policy Framework designed to be consistent with globally recognized privacy principles, we comply with United States federal and other country guidelines and practices to help ensure that customers and employees are aware of, and can control, how we use information about them. Our primary websites, such as QuickBooks.com and TurboTax.com, have


Tables of Contents

been certified by TRUSTe, an independent organization that operates a website privacy certification program representing industry standard practices to address users’ and regulators’ concerns about online privacy. We also use privacy statements to provide notice to customers of our privacy practices, as well as provide them the opportunity to furnish instructions with respect to use of their personal information. We participate in industry groups whose purpose is to develop or influence industry best practices, and to influence public policy for privacy and security.

To address security concerns, we use security safeguards to help protect the systems and the information customers give to us from loss, misuse and unauthorized alteration. Whenever customers transmit sensitive information, such as a credit card number or tax return data, to us through one of our websites we use industry standards to encrypt the data as it is transmitted to us. We work to protect our systems from unauthorized internal or external access using numerous commercially available computer security products as well as internally developed security procedures and practices.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. Our financial institution customers, which include commercial banks and credit unions, operate in markets that are subject to rigorous regulatory oversight and supervision. The compliance of our products and services with these requirements depends on a variety of factors including the particular functionality, the interactive design and the charter or license of the financial institution. Our financial services customers must independently assess and determine what is required of them under these regulations and are responsible for ensuring that our systems and the design of their websites conform to their regulatory obligations.

Our Intuit Financial Services business is not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to financial institutions, this business is examined by the Federal Financial Institution Examination Council under the Information Technology examination guidelines. Although we believe we are not subject to direct supervision by federal and state banking agencies with regard to other regulations, we have from time to time agreed to examinations of our business and operations by these agencies.

Our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals businesses are also subject to federal and state government requirements, including regulations related to the electronic filing of tax returns, the provision of tax preparer assistance and the use and disclosure of customer information. In addition, we offer certain other products and services, such as small business payroll, merchant payment processing services, prepaid debit cards, and patient-to-provider communication solutions, which are subject to special regulatory requirements. As we expand our products and services, we may become subject to additional government regulation. New laws or regulations may be adopted that could impose significant limitations on our business and increase our cost of compliance. We continually analyze new business opportunities, both domestically and internationally, and new businesses and business models that we pursue may require additional costs for regulatory compliance.

We are subject to federal and state laws and government regulations concerning employee safety and health and environmental matters. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal and state agencies have the authority to put regulations in place that may have an impact on our operations.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our success depends on the proprietary technology embodied in our offerings. We protect this proprietary technology by relying on a variety of intellectual property mechanisms, including copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. For example, we regularly file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks and service marks in order to protect intellectual property that we believe is important to our business. We hold a small but growing patent portfolio

that we believe is important to Intuit's overall competitive advantage, although we are not materially dependent on any one patent or particular group of patents in our portfolio at this time. W

e also have a number of registered trademarks that include Intuit, QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, ProSeries, Quicken and Mint. We have registered these and other trademarks and service marks in the United States and, depending on the relevance of each brand to other markets, in many foreign countries. Most registrations can be renewed perpetually at 10-year intervals. We also license intellectual property from third parties for use in our products.

Although our portfolio of patents is growing, the patents that have been issued to us could be determined to be invalid and may not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction. In addition, third parties have asserted and may, in the future, assert infringement claims against us and our customers. These claims and any litigation may result in invalidation of our proprietary rights or a finding of infringement along with an assessment of damages. Litigation, even if without merit,


Tables of Contents

could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, third party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all.

EMPLOYEES

As of

July 31, 2011

, we had approximately 8,000 employees in major offices in the United States, Canada, India, the United Kingdom and other locations. We believe our future success and growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of our business. We do not currently have any collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and we believe employee relations are generally good. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued service. We believe we offer competitive compensation and a good working environment. We were named one of

Fortune

magazine’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” in each of the last ten years. However, we face intense competition for qualified employees, and we expect to face continuing challenges in recruiting and retention.