ITEM 1 BUSINESS

CORPORATE BACKGROUND

General

Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and
medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting professionals and financial institutions. Our
flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax, simplify small business
management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and
Lacerte are Intuit’s leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Our Intuit
Financial Services business provides online banking solutions and services to banks and credit
unions that help them make it easier for consumers and businesses to manage their money and pay
their bills.

We had revenue of $3.5 billion in our fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, and had approximately 7,700
employees in major offices in the United States, Canada, India, the United Kingdom and other
locations at that time.

Intuit was incorporated in California in March 1984. We reincorporated in Delaware and completed
our initial public offering in March 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2700
Coast Avenue, Mountain View, California, 94043, and our main telephone number is 650-944-6000. Our
corporate website,www.intuit.com, provides materials for investors and information relating to
Intuit’s corporate governance. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not
incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. When we refer to “we,”
“our” or “Intuit” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation
(Intuit Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries.

Available Information

We file reports required of public companies with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
These include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and amendments to these reports. The public may read and
copy the materials we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available free of charge on the
Investor Relations section of our corporate website all of the reports we file with or furnish to
the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished. Copies of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations,
Intuit Inc., P.O. Box 7850, Mountain View, California 94039-7850 or by calling 650-944-6000.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

Intuit’s Mission

We seek to be a premier innovative growth company that improves our customers’ financial lives so
profoundly they can’t imagine going back to the old way.

Our customers include small and medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting professionals and
financial institutions. We help them solve important business and financial management problems,
such as running a small business, paying bills and income taxes, or managing personal finances. Our
innovative products and services simplify the lives of approximately 50 million people, helping
them save and make money.





Emerging technology and market trends are changing the way people live and work, and the way we
help customers. We’re connecting those customers to our solutions and with each other in ways that
add more value to our products and services. We’re taking a global view as well, whether helping
our customers expand their business to overseas markets, creating and selling our own products in
emerging nations, or extending our hiring horizons beyond geographic borders.

Our Business Portfolio

We organize our portfolio of businesses into four principal categories — Small Business Group,
Tax, Financial Services and Other Businesses. These categories include seven financial reporting
segments.

Small Business Group:This category includes three segments — Financial Management Solutions,
Employee Management Solutions, and Payment Solutions.

•Our Financial Management Solutions segment includes QuickBooks financial and business
management software and services; technical support; financial supplies; and Intuit
Websites, which provides website design and hosting services for small and medium-sized
businesses.

•Our Employee Management Solutions segment provides payroll products and services for
small businesses.

•Our Payment Solutions segment provides merchant services for small businesses,
including credit and debit card processing, electronic check conversion and automated
clearing house services.

Tax:This category includes two segments — Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals.

•Our Consumer Tax segment includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services
for consumers and small businesses.

•Our Accounting Professionals segment includes Lacerte and ProSeries professional tax
products and services. This segment also includes QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and
the QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program for accounting professionals.

Financial Services:This segment consists primarily of outsourced online services for banks and
credit unions provided by our Intuit Financial Services business. These include comprehensive
online financial management solutions for consumers and businesses.

Other Businesses:This segment includes Quicken personal finance products and services, Mint.com
online personal finance services, Intuit Health online patient-to-provider communication solutions,
and our businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.

Our Growth Strategy

We innovate to drive growth, adapting our approach to meet changing demographic, technology, market
and geographic trends. We build innovative offerings to solve our customers’ problems, based upon
our three-point growth strategy.

•Driving growth in our core businesses.We’re committed to helping consumers, small
businesses and accountants save and make money through our core business offerings,
including TurboTax, Quicken, QuickBooks, ProSeries and Lacerte. In addition, we offer other
relevant products to encourage existing customers to upgrade to more feature-rich versions
that meet their personal and business needs.

•Building adjacent businesses and entering new geographies.By pursuing partnerships,
completing acquisitions and creating new offerings, we’re accelerating our entry into new
businesses, such as employee management and customer management. Intuit Websites, for
example, gives us a new front door to cross-sell other products and services, such as
electronic payments, online payroll and, eventually, QuickBooks. Our investment in
healthcare offerings and our recent acquisition of Medfusion have expanded our portfolio of
software-as-a-service offerings. And our new Intuit Money Manager offering in India expands
our global reach into emerging markets.

•Accelerating our transition to connected services.Through our Connected Services
strategy, we’re providing new ways for people and businesses to connect with each other and
leverage their data, whether through desktop, laptop or handheld devices. In a world with
expanded connectivity, people expect access to services and information any time, any
place. Through this strategy we intend to delight customers by





offering easy-to-use connected services that solve their problems, while building durable
competitive advantage for Intuit.

This strategy recognizes the emergence and influence of the digital generation, the increasing
relevance of social networks, and customers’ growing reliance on the Web, mobile and
information-based technology to manage important tasks. It also acknowledges the potential of new
market opportunities in rapidly developing economies. The end result is a global market that is
shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar
bound, to one where people understand, demand and embrace the benefits of connected services.

Our Connected Services Vision

We provide connected services in three ways:

•Software-advantaged Services:We enable customers to seamlessly connect software, such
as QuickBooks, to other offerings, including small business payroll or merchant services.
This can create powerful solutions that we believe give us a competitive advantage.

•Software as a Service:We offer hosted services, also known as SaaS, to connect
customers to our online offerings. Through TurboTax Online, online payroll services for
small businesses, Intuit Websites, QuickBooks Online, online banking services for financial
institutions, Mint.com, and patient-to-provider communication services, we deliver clear
benefits and add value for our customers.

•Platform as a Service:We are increasingly using our products as a platform to connect
people to each other — and to us — allowing them to share information and solve problems
together. The Intuit Partner Platform enables third-party developers to create and sell
applications to our customers. This provides customers with new solutions and functionality
and gives developers a valuable audience.

We continue to make significant progress in this environment. Overall, connected services generated
nearly 60 percent of our revenue in the 2010 fiscal year. Software-as-a-service offerings by
themselves produced roughly one-third of our revenue.

To compete in this connected world, we plan to take advantage of three emerging technology and
market trends:

•Social:As businesses and consumers become increasingly connected, people shape product
development, share their expertise and influence opinion like never before. Customers can
share advice with each other by using the online forums available in each of our major
products. In a social world, people connect and contribute to our product offerings. For
example, our TurboTax Live Community allows participants to submit and answer each other’s
questions while preparing their income tax returns.

•Mobile:As technology moves from the desktop to the palmtop, we are creating mobile
services that deliver “in the pocket” — any place at any time that’s convenient for
customers. Intuit GoPayment, for example, helps small businesses improve sales and cash
flow by accepting credit card payments on their mobile phones.

•Global:As geographic borders become less important to businesses, we are working to
help customers take advantage of a global marketplace and find new customers in new
markets. Intuit Money Manager, our first product for the emerging markets, helps people in
India better manage their bank accounts.

Summary

Generations age. Borders blur. Technology advances. As the way we live and work evolves, we adapt
our strategy to meet and lead these changes. Yet our commitment remains consistent: Developing
innovative products and services that are so convenient and easy to use that customers actively
recommend them to others. It’s been our success formula for more than a quarter-century as we’ve
worked to solve people’s important business and financial management problems. And we’ll maintain
that commitment as we continue to evolve, working to help people solve each other’s problems,
connecting people to people and to solutions, wherever they are, whenever they want them.





PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We offer our products and services in the seven business segments described in“Business Overview”above. The following table shows the classes of similar products or services that accounted for 10%
or more of total net revenue in the last three fiscal years.

FiscalFiscalFiscal201020092008Financial Management Solutions18%19%20%Employee Management Solutions12%12%11%Consumer Tax33%32%31%Accounting Professionals11%11%11%Financial Services10%10%10%

Our products and services are sold mainly in the United States and are described below.
International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008. For financial information about these segments, see“Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”in Item 7 and Note 15 to the financial
statements in Item 8 of this report.

Financial Management Solutions

QuickBooks Software. Our QuickBooks product line brings bookkeeping capabilities and business
management tools to small and medium-sized business users in an easy-to-use design that does not
require them to be familiar with debit and credit accounting. We offer a range of products to suit
the needs of different types of businesses. Our desktop software products include QuickBooks Simple
Start, which provides accounting functionality suitable for very small, less complex businesses;
QuickBooks Pro and QuickBooks Pro for Mac, which provide accounting functionality suitable for
slightly larger businesses; QuickBooks Premier, which provides small businesses with advanced
accounting functionality and business planning tools; and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions, designed
for larger businesses. Our Premier and Enterprise products also come in a range of
industry-specific editions, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit,
Professional Services, and Retail. In addition, we offer a Web-based version of QuickBooks called
QuickBooks Online that is suitable for multiple users working in various locations.

QuickBooks Technical Support. We offer several technical support options to our QuickBooks
customers. These include support plans that are sold separately and priced based on the length of
the plan. We also offer a free self-help information section on our QuickBooks.com website and free
access to the QuickBooks Community, an online forum where QuickBooks users can share information
with each other.

Websites for Small Businesses.Our Intuit Websites offering helps small businesses establish a
presence on the Web, maintain and promote their websites, and sell or market their products and
services online.

Financial Supplies. We offer a range of financial supplies designed for small businesses and
individuals that use QuickBooks and Quicken. These include paper checks, envelopes, invoices and
deposit slips as well as business identity products such as business cards and stationery. We also
offer tax forms, tax return presentation folders and other supplies for professional tax preparers.
Our customers can personalize many of these products to incorporate their logos and use a variety
of color, font and design options.

QuickBase.Our QuickBase offering is a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform that allows business
users to select ready-made online workgroup applications or create custom solutions for their
businesses. The most common solutions include project collaboration, sales team management and
employee management. QuickBase customers pay a monthly or annual subscription fee that varies based
on the number of users and the amount of data and file storage they need.





Intuit Developer Network. The Intuit Developer Network is an initiative that encourages
third-party software developers to build applications that exchange data with QuickBooks and other
Intuit products by giving them
access to certain application programming interfaces. The Intuit Developer Network has launched the
Intuit Partner Platform, which allows developers to sell online applications to Intuit’s customers.
Developers in this program build on Intuit’s platform or any platform they choose, but all
applications must integrate with the platform in specific ways. Developers who register with the
Intuit Developer Network have access to the latest QuickBooks software development kit, the Intuit
Partner Platform, QuickBooks software downloads, and member benefits such as marketing tools,
developer forums and one-on-one engineering support. At July 31, 2010, approximately 365
third-party applications were available for QuickBooks and other Intuit products atwww.marketplace.intuit.com.

Employee Management Solutions

QuickBooks Payroll.QuickBooks Payroll is a family of products sold on a subscription basis to
small businesses that use QuickBooks and prepare their own payroll or want some assistance with
preparing their payroll. It is also sold to accountants who use QuickBooks and help their clients
manage their payrolls. The product family includes:

•QuickBooks Basic Payroll, which provides payroll tax tables and payroll reports;

•QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll, which provides payroll tax tables, payroll reports, federal
and state payroll tax forms, and eFile & Pay for federal and state payroll taxes;

•QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll for Accountants, which has several accountant-specific
features in addition to the features in QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; and

•QuickBooks Online Payroll, for use with QuickBooks Online.

We also offer QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, through which we provide the back-end aspects of payroll
processing, including tax payments and filings, for customers who process their payrolls using
QuickBooks. Direct deposit is included with QuickBooks Online Payroll and available with each of
the other offerings for an additional fee.

Intuit Online Payroll.Intuit Online Payroll provides small business payroll services that do not
require customers to use QuickBooks. This offering is sold on a subscription basis and includes
online payroll tax calculation, payroll reports, federal and state payroll tax forms, electronic
payment of federal and state payroll taxes, and direct deposit.

Other Employee Management Solutions.We offer workers’ compensation administration and 401(k)
administration services to small business employers for additional fees.

Payment Solutions

Merchant Services.We offer a full range of merchant services to small businesses that include
credit card, debit card, electronic benefits, and gift card processing services; check
verification, check guarantee, and electronic check conversion, including automated clearing house
(ACH) and Check 21 capabilities; and Web-based transaction processing services for online
merchants. In addition to transaction processing services, we provide a full range of support for
our clients that includes customer service, merchant and consumer collections, chargeback and
retrieval support, and fraud and loss prevention screening.

Point of Sale Solutions. We offer Cash Register Plus, an entry level product for small retail
businesses that helps them manage detailed sales data, track customers, and manage daily tasks more
efficiently. We also offer Basic, Pro and Multi-Store versions of QuickBooks Point of Sale, which
help retailers process sales using barcodes, track inventory and customer purchases, and integrate
with QuickBooks. We sell these software products with or without the accompanying hardware.

Consumer Tax

Our TurboTax products and services are designed to enable individuals and small business owners to
prepare and file their own federal and state personal and small business income tax returns quickly
and accurately. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax
returns.

Tax Return Preparation Offerings. For the 2009 tax season we offered a range of software products
and services that included desktop and online versions of TurboTax Basic, for simple returns;
TurboTax Deluxe, for taxpayers who itemize deductions; TurboTax Premier, for taxpayers who own
investments or rental property; and TurboTax





Home and Business, for small business owners. We also
offered TurboTax Business desktop software for larger businesses; TurboTax Free Edition online for
the simplest returns; and SnapTax, an application that allowed
California users with simple federal and state returns to prepare and electronically file them from
their iPhones. These offerings are subject to change for the 2010 tax season. TurboTax Live
Community is an online forum where participants can learn from and share information with other
users while preparing their income tax returns.

Electronic Filing and Other Services. Through our electronic filing center, our desktop and online
tax preparation customers can electronically file their federal income tax returns, as well as
state returns in all states that support electronic filing. For the 2009 tax year our online tax
preparation and filing services were offered through the websites of nearly 4,000 financial
institutions, more than 1,000 electronic retailers and other merchants, and on Yahoo!® Finance Tax
Center. Financial institutions can offer our online tax services to their end users through a link
to TurboTax Online or through TurboTax for Online Banking, which provides functionality that is
integrated with their online banking services.

Intuit Tax Freedom Project. Under the Intuit Tax Freedom Project, we provide online federal and
state income tax return preparation and electronic filing services at no charge to eligible
taxpayers. In fiscal 2010 we provided approximately 1.4 million free federal returns under this
initiative. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies
that has entered into an agreement with the federal government to provide free online federal tax
preparation and filing services to eligible taxpayers. See also“Competition — Consumer Tax”later
in this Item 1 for more information on the Free File Alliance.

Accounting Professionals

Our Accounting Professionals segment provides software and services for accountants and tax
preparers in public practice. These include offerings that help professional accountants and tax
preparers provide accounting, payroll, tax planning and tax compliance services to their individual
and business clients, and that help them manage their own practices more effectively.

Tax Offerings. Our tax offerings for accounting professionals are Lacerte and ProSeries. Lacerte
software is designed for full-service accounting firms that prepare the most complex returns. We
offer two versions of our ProSeries software: ProSeries Professional Edition, designed for
year-round tax practices that prepare moderately complex tax returns; and ProSeries Basic Edition,
designed for the needs of smaller and seasonal tax practices. Accounting professionals license
these tax products for a flat fee for unlimited use, or use them to print or electronically file
tax returns on a “pay-per-return” basis. Accountants and tax preparers using Lacerte and ProSeries
can file their clients’ tax returns using our electronic filing services.

Accounting Offerings. Our accounting offering for professionals, QuickBooks Premier Accountant
Edition, provides the tools and file-sharing capabilities needed to efficiently complete
bookkeeping, trial balance, write-up, and financial reporting tasks. Our QuickBooks ProAdvisor
Program is a subscription-based membership that provides QuickBooks and QuickBooks Payroll software
for professional accountants, technical support, training, product certification, access to
marketing tools and discounts on products purchased on behalf of clients.

Financial Services

Our Intuit Financial Services business (formerly known as Digital Insight) provides outsourced
online banking solutions that are hosted in our data centers and delivered as on-demand services to
medium-sized financial institutions. We also work with these financial institutions to provide
other Intuit products and services, such as TurboTax for Online Banking, to their end users. No
single financial institution accounted for more than 10% of this segment’s total net revenue in
fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008.

Consumer Banking.We offer online banking services that financial institutions make available to
their retail customers. These services include the ability to view transaction history, account
balances, check images and statements; fund transfers between accounts; inter-institutional
transfers; bill payment and bill presentment; Personal FinanceWorks, our comprehensive online
personal financial management solution; and TurboTax for Online Banking, which provides tax
preparation and filing services that are integrated with online banking.





Business Banking.We also offer online banking services that financial institutions make available
to their business customers. These services include features similar to those of our consumer
offering as well as lockbox reporting;
payroll direct deposit; wire and inter-account fund transfers; account reconciliations; foreign
exchange trade; and Small Business FinanceWorks, our online business financial management solution.

Other Businesses

Personal Finance

Our personal finance offerings help users organize, understand and manage their personal finances.
Our Quicken line of desktop software products allow customers to reconcile bank accounts, pay
bills, record credit card and other transactions, and track investments, mortgages and other assets
and liabilities. Quicken also allows customers to flag their tax-related financial transactions and
download that information into our TurboTax consumer tax return preparation software. We offer
Quicken Starter Edition and Quicken Deluxe as well as Quicken Premier, which offers more robust
investment and tax planning tools; Quicken Home and Business, which allows customers to manage both
personal and small business finances in one application; and Quicken for Mac. Our Mint.com personal
finance service is free to users and shows them all of their financial accounts in one online
location; provides tools that help them set up budgets and monitor spending; identifies
money-saving ideas; and provides step-by-step guidance and advice on achieving their financial
goals. We also offer a Mint application on mobile devices such as the iPhone.

Intuit Health

In May 2010 we acquired Medfusion, Inc., which provides online patient-to-provider communication
solutions. Services are delivered through a standard Web browser on a subscription basis and
typically include features such as appointment scheduling, patient pre-registration, prescription
renewal and electronic bill payment.

Global Business

In Canada, we offer versions of QuickBooks that we have “localized,” that is, customized to meet
the unique needs of customers in that specific international location. These include QuickBooks
software offerings, payroll offerings and service plans. We also offer consumer tax return
preparation software, professional tax preparation products and services, and localized versions of
Quicken in Canada. In the United Kingdom, we offer localized versions of QuickBooks and QuickBooks
Payroll, including products and services sold in partnership with banks.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Since the markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological
change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements, a
continuous high level of investment is required to innovate and quickly develop new products and
services as well as enhance existing offerings. Our product development efforts are becoming more
important than ever as we pursue our Connected Services strategy, which reflects a world where
people and businesses are increasingly connected by technology and expect access to services at any
time in any place.

We develop many of our products and services internally. We have a number of United States and
foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and
technology. We supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and
technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or
expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third party technology relationships as
we continue to pursue our Connected Services strategy.

Our traditional core desktop software products — QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, ProSeries and
Quicken — tend to have predictable annual development and product release cycles. We also develop
innovative new offerings such as Intuit GoPayment for which development cycles can be more rapid.
Developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because
of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate tax law and tax form changes
within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our payroll, merchant services, financial
institutions, and patient-to-provider communication offerings varies with





business needs and
regulatory requirements and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity
of each particular project.

In our Financial Services business, we have developed interfaces with the systems of many of the
major providers of core processing software and services to financial institutions. These system
interfaces allow us to access a financial institution’s host system to provide end users access to
their account data. In addition to developing new interfaces, we continue to enhance our many
existing interfaces in order to deliver more robust connectivity and increase operating
efficiencies.

We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our
future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services and on
developing new products and services that will offer increased ease of use, be customized for
specific customer categories, be Web-based or mobile, and feature improved integration with other
Intuit and third party products and services and with our internal information systems. We also
expect to continue to focus significant research and development efforts on ongoing projects to
update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. Our research and development expenses
were $573 million or 17% of total net revenue in fiscal 2010; $556 million or 18% of total net
revenue in fiscal 2009; and $593 million or 20% of total net revenue in fiscal 2008.

SEASONALITY

Our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals businesses are highly seasonal. Revenue
from our QuickBooks software products tends to be highest during our second and third fiscal
quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the
period from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our
revenue has been occurring later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of
TurboTax Online, for which revenue is recognized upon printing or electronic filing of a tax
return. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals revenue is also affected
by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those
agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or
the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift from our second
fiscal quarter to our third fiscal quarter. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue
is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30.
We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July
31, when revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while operating expenses continue at relatively
consistent levels. We believe the seasonality of our revenue and profitability is likely to
continue in the future.

MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS

Markets

Our primary target customers are small and medium-sized businesses, consumers, accounting
professionals, and medium-sized financial institutions. The markets in which we compete have always
been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product
introductions and enhancements by competitors. Over the past several years, the widespread
availability of the Internet has accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that
customers learn about and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online shopping
experiences are rapidly becoming the standard. In addition, many customers now begin their shopping
process in one channel and ultimately make their purchase in a different channel. This drives the
need to create integrated multi-channel shop and buy experiences. Market and industry changes are
quickly rendering existing products and services obsolete, so our success depends on our ability to
respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or
enhanced products and services, alternative distribution methods and other changes in the way we do
business.

Our target customers for online banking services are medium-sized financial institutions seeking an
outsourced solution that allows them to compete with the larger national banks in their market. We
also provide online financial management solutions to financial institution customers of core
processors.





Marketing Programs

To sell our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses, consumers and accounting
professionals, we use a variety of marketing programs to generate software orders, stimulate demand
and generally maintain and increase customer awareness of our products and services. These programs
include Web marketing and targeted advertising, including purchasing key words from major search
engine companies; direct-response mail and email campaigns; telephone solicitations; newspaper,
magazine, billboard, radio and television advertising; and promotional offers that we coordinate
with major retailers. We also use workflow-integrated in-product discovery in some of our software
products to market other related products and services, including third-party products and
services.

In our Financial Services business, our marketing efforts are primarily focused on identifying
potential financial institution clients and marketing our online banking services to consumer and
business end users in cooperation with our financial institution clients. We also work with these
financial institutions to provide other Intuit products and services, such as TurboTax for Online
Banking, to their end users.

Sales and Distribution Channels

Multi-Channel Shop and Buy Experiences.Our consumer and small and medium-sized business customers
increasingly use the Internet to research both online and desktop products and services. Some
customers buy and use our products and services entirely online. Others purchase desktop products
and services using the Internet. Still others prefer to make their final decision at a retail
location. We coordinate our websites, promotions and retail displays in support of this integrated
multi-channel shop and buy model.

Direct Sales Channel. We sell many of our products and services for small and medium-sized
businesses, consumers and accounting professionals directly to our customers through our websites
and call centers. Telesales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers that want
live help selecting the products and services that are right for their needs.

In our Financial Services business, we sell our products and services to financial institutions
using a direct sales model and, to a lesser but increasing extent, in cooperation with core
processing partners. Our typical sales cycle is approximately nine to eighteen months for new
financial institutions and four to six months for add-on sales to existing customers.

Retail Channel. We sell our QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken desktop software as well as our
QuickBooks Payroll and Intuit Online Payroll services and merchant credit card payment processing
services at retail locations across the United States. We sell these products and services directly
and through distributors to office supply superstores, warehouse clubs, consumer electronics
retailers, general mass merchandisers, online retailers, and catalogers. In Canada and other
international markets we also rely on distributors and other third parties who sell products into
the retail channel. The retail channel provides broad customer reach through retailer-sponsored
advertising and exposure to retail foot traffic. This channel also gives us the opportunity to
communicate our product and service lineup and messages through multiple touch points and allows us
to serve our customers at relatively modest cost.

Other Channels.We have strategies to address the alliance partner, solution provider and personal
computer hardware manufacturer channels. Revenue from these channels is currently less significant
than revenue from our direct and retail channels, but it is growing. We sell our consumer and small
business products and services through selected alliance partners, primarily banks, credit unions,
and securities and investment firms. These alliance partners help us reach new customers at the
point of transaction and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. Solution
providers combine our products and services with value-added marketing, sales and technical
expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. Relationships with selected personal
computer hardware manufacturers help us attract new customers for our core software offerings. As
we expand our mobile and global offerings, we expect that key strategic partnerships will become
increasingly important to our business. For example, we plan to market and sell some of our
offerings through mobile phone service and hardware providers.

In our Financial Services business, we have joint marketing arrangements with several core
processing vendors. They include Fiserv, Inc.; Open Solutions, Inc.; Fidelity Information Services,
Inc.; Metavante Corporation (now





part of Fidelity Information Services); and Computer Services Inc.
To deliver bill payment and bill presentment
services to our financial institution customers, we also maintain value-added reseller
relationships with major providers such as Metavante Corporation and CheckFree Corporation (part of
Fiserv).

COMPETITION

Overview

We face intense competition in all of our businesses, both domestically and internationally.
Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve, particularly small business,
consumer tax and online banking, have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this
trend to continue. Some of our existing competitors have significantly greater financial, technical
and marketing resources than we do. In addition, the competitive landscape can shift rapidly as new
companies enter markets in which we compete. This is particularly true for online products and
services, where the barriers to entry are lower than they are for desktop software products and
services. To attract customers, many online competitors are offering free or low-priced entry-level
products which we must take into account in our pricing strategies.

Our most obvious competition comes from other companies that offer technology solutions similar to
ours. However, for many of our products and services, other important competitive alternatives for
customers are third party service providers such as professional accountants and seasonal assisted
tax preparation businesses. Manual tools and processes, or general-purpose software, are also
important competitive alternatives. Many of our new customers previously used pencil and paper or
software such as word processors and spreadsheets, rather than competitors’ software and services,
to perform financial tasks. We believe that there is a long-term trend away from manual methods and
toward the use of both desktop and online software to accomplish these tasks that will continue to
provide growth opportunities.

Competition Specific to Business Segments

Small Business Group.Our QuickBooks desktop product is the leading small business financial
management software in the U.S. retail channel. Our small business products and services face
competitive challenges from companies such as NetSuite Inc. and The Sage Group plc, which offer
software and associated services that directly target small business customers. Increasingly, our
small business products and services also face competition from free or low-cost online accounting
offerings as well as free online banking and bill payment services offered by financial
institutions and others. In our payroll business we compete directly with Automatic Data
Processing, Inc. (ADP), Paychex and many other companies with payroll offerings, including online
payroll offerings. In our merchant services business we also compete directly with large financial
institutions such as Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America and with many payment
processors, including First Data Corporation, Elavon, Global Payments and FIS-Certegy.

Consumer Tax. In the private sector we face intense competition from H&R Block, which provides
assisted tax preparation services in its stores and a competing software offering called H&R Block
At Home, and from several other tax preparation service providers and online offerings, including
2nd Story Software’s TaxACT. These competing offerings subject us to significant price pressure.

We also face competitive challenges in our Consumer Tax business from publicly funded government
entities that offer electronic tax preparation and filing services at no cost to individual
taxpayers. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that
has entered into an agreement with the federal government. Under this agreement, the member
companies provide online federal tax preparation and filing services at no cost to eligible federal
taxpayers, and the federal government has agreed not to provide a competing service. Approximately
20 states have also adopted Free File Alliance public-private agreements while approximately 20
other states offer some form of direct government tax preparation and filing services free to
qualified taxpayers. We continue to actively work with others in the private and public sectors to
advance the goals of the Free File Alliance policy initiative and to support successful
public-private partnerships. However, future administrative, regulatory or legislative activity in
this area could harm our Consumer Tax business.

Accounting Professionals.Our Lacerte professional tax offerings face competition from
competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include integration with non-tax
functionality. These include CCH’s ProSystems fx





Office Suite and Thomson Reuters’ CS Professional
Suite and GoSystems Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax
offerings face competition from CCH’s ATX and TaxWise offerings. We also face growing competition
from online tax and accounting offerings, which may be marketed more effectively or have lower
pricing than our offerings for accounting professionals.

Financial Services.The market for online banking services is highly competitive. In the area of
consumer online banking, a number of companies offer outsourced online banking services to
financial institutions, including Online Resources, S1 Corporation and FundsXpress (a subsidiary of
First Data Corporation). In addition, several companies whose primary offerings are core processing
or bill payment processing services also provide online banking services. These companies include
Fiserv, Inc., Open Solutions, Inc., Fidelity Information Services, Inc., Jack Henry and Metavante
Corporation (now part of Fidelity Information Services). In addition, many of these firms offer our
products through a referral or reseller arrangement with us. We also compete for new customers with
relatively recent entrants into the online financial management solutions market. As we negotiate
service contract renewals with current customers, competitive pressures may require us to make
concessions on pricing and other material terms to convince these customers to remain with us.

Competitive Factors

We believe the most important competitive factors for our core offerings — QuickBooks, TurboTax,
Lacerte, ProSeries and Quicken — are ease of use, product features, size of the installed customer
base, brand name recognition, value proposition, cost, reliability, and product and support
quality. Access to distribution channels is also important for our QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken
software products. In addition, support from accounting professionals and the ability for customers
to upgrade within product families as their businesses grow are significant competitive factors for
our QuickBooks products. Productivity is an important competitive factor for the full-service
accounting firms to which we market our Lacerte software products. We believe we compete
effectively on these factors as our QuickBooks, TurboTax, and Quicken products are the leading
products in the U.S. retail sales channel for their respective categories.

For our service offerings such as small business payroll, merchant payment processing, outsourced
online banking, and patient-to-provider communication solutions, features and ease of use, the
integration of these products with related software, brand name recognition, effective
distribution, quality of support, cost, and scalability of operations are important competitive
factors.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

We provide customer service and technical support by telephone, e-mail, online chat, text
messaging, online communities, and our customer service and technical support websites. We have
full-time and outsourced customer service and technical support staffs. We supplement these staffs
with seasonal employees and additional outsourcing during periods of peak call volumes, such as
during the tax return filing season or following a major product launch. We outsource to several
firms domestically and internationally. Most of our internationally outsourced consumer and small
business customer service and technical support personnel are currently located in India and the
Philippines.

We offer free self-help information through our technical support websites for our QuickBooks,
TurboTax, Accounting Professionals and Quicken software products. Customers can use our websites to
find answers to commonly asked questions and check on the status of orders. Under certain support
plans, customers can also use our websites to receive product updates electronically. Support
alternatives and fees vary by product. We also sponsor online user communities such as Intuit
Community for small businesses and accounting professionals, and TurboTax Live Community, where
consumers can share knowledge and product advice with each other.





MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION

Desktop Software and Supplies

The key processes in manufacturing desktop software are manufacturing compact discs (CDs), printing
boxes and related materials, and assembling and shipping the final products.

For retail manufacturing, we have an agreement with Arvato Digital Services, Inc. (ADiS), a
division of Bertelsmann AG, under which ADiS provides a majority of the manufacturing volume for
our launches of QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken, as well as for day-to-day replenishment after
product launches. ADiS has operations in multiple locations that can provide redundancy if
necessary. We also have an agreement with JVC America Inc. under which JVC provides secondary
outsourced manufacturing volume for these launches and for day-to-day replenishment.

For retail distribution, we have an agreement with ADiS under which ADiS handles all logistics
services. Our retail product launches are operationally complex. Our model for product delivery for
retail launches and replenishment is a hybrid of direct to store deliveries and shipments to
central warehouse locations. This allows improved inventory management by our retailers. We also
ship products for many of our smaller retail customers through distributors.

ADiS also provides most of the manufacturing volume and distribution services for our direct
desktop software orders. We have an exclusive agreement with Harland Clarke, a division of M&F
Worldwide Corporation, to fulfill orders for all of our printed checks and most other products for
our financial supplies business.

We have multiple sources for all of our raw materials and availability has historically not been a
significant problem for us.

Prior to major product releases for our core desktop software products we tend to have significant
levels of backlog, but at other times backlog is minimal and we typically ship products within a
few days of receiving an order. Because of this fluctuation in backlog, we believe that backlog is
not a reliable predictor of our future core desktop software sales.

Online Products and Services

Intuit’s data centers house most of the systems, networks and databases required to operate and
deliver our online products and services. These include QuickBooks Online, online payroll services,
merchant payment processing services, website hosting services for small businesses, TurboTax
Online, consumer and professional electronic tax filing services, outsourced online banking
services, Mint.com, and patient-to-provider communication services. Through our data centers, we
connect customers to our products and services and store customer and business information. As our
businesses continue to move toward delivering more online products and services in conjunction with
our Connected Services strategy, our infrastructure will become even more critical in the future.

Currently we have a number of data centers primarily located in the western United States. Over
time we expect to transition to fewer data centers in more geographically diverse locations. In
fiscal 2008 and 2009 we built a data center in Washington state that we began occupying in the
second half of fiscal 2009. We expect this data center to support the hosting and high availability
requirements of many of our existing and future connected services offerings. We are also executing
a plan to create a new primary backup facility at a co-located data center in Nevada.

PRIVACY AND SECURITY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION AND TRANSACTIONS

We are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations and to financial
institution requirements relating to the privacy and security of customer and employee personal
information. We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to the Internet, behavioral
tracking, telemarketing, email activities, data hosting and retention, financial and health
information, and credit reporting. Additional laws in all of these areas are likely to be passed in
the future, which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the ways in which we





can collect, use, host, store or transmit the personal information and data of our customers or
employees, communicate with our customers, and deliver products and services, or may significantly
increase our compliance costs. If our business expands to new industry segments and new uses of
data that are regulated for privacy and security, or to countries outside the United States that
have strict data protections laws, our compliance requirements and costs will increase.

Through a Master Privacy Policy Framework designed to be consistent with globally recognized
privacy principles, we comply with United States federal and other country guidelines and practices
to help ensure that customers and employees are aware of, and can control, how we use information
about them. Our primary websites, such as QuickBooks.com and TurboTax.com, have been certified by
TRUSTe, an independent organization that operates a website privacy certification program
representing industry standard practices to address users’ and regulators’ concerns about online
privacy. We also use privacy statements to provide notice to customers of our privacy practices, as
well as provide them the opportunity to furnish instructions with respect to use of their personal
information. We participate in industry groups whose purpose is to influence public policy and
industry best practices for privacy and security.

To address security concerns, we use security safeguards to help protect the systems and the
information customers give to us from loss, misuse and unauthorized alteration. Whenever customers
transmit sensitive information, such as a credit card number or tax return data, to us through one
of our websites we use industry standards to encrypt the data as it is transmitted to us. We work
to protect our systems from unauthorized internal or external access using numerous commercially
available computer security products as well as internally developed security procedures and
practices.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation.
Our financial institution customers, which include commercial banks and credit unions, operate in
markets that are subject to rigorous regulatory oversight and supervision. The compliance of our
products and services with these requirements depends on a variety of factors including the
particular functionality, the interactive design and the charter or license of the financial
institution. Our financial services customers must independently assess and determine what is
required of them under these regulations and are responsible for ensuring that our systems and the
design of their websites conform to their regulatory obligations.

Our Intuit Financial Services business is not directly subject to federal or state regulations
specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks and credit unions. However, as a
provider of services to financial institutions, this business is examined by the Federal Financial
Institution Examination Council under the Information Technology examination guidelines. Although
we believe we are not subject to direct supervision by federal and state banking agencies with
regard to other regulations, we have from time to time agreed to examinations of our business and
operations by these agencies.

Our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals businesses are also subject to federal and state
government requirements, including regulations related to the electronic filing of tax returns, the
provision of tax preparer assistance and the use and disclosure of customer information. In
addition, we offer certain other products and services, such as small business payroll, payments,
and patient-to-provider communication solutions, which are subject to special regulatory
requirements. As we expand our financial institutions, tax and small business products and
services, we may become subject to additional government regulation. New laws or regulations may be
adopted in these areas that could impose significant limitations on our business and increase our
cost of compliance. We continually analyze new business opportunities, both domestically and
internationally, and new businesses and business models that we pursue may require additional costs
for regulatory compliance.

We are subject to federal and state laws and government regulations concerning employee safety and
health and environmental matters. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the
Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal and state agencies have the authority to put
regulations in place that may have an impact on our operations.





INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our success depends on our proprietary technology embodied in our offerings. We protect this
proprietary technology by relying on a variety of intellectual property mechanisms, including
copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.
For example, we regularly file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks and service
marks in order to protect intellectual property that we believe is important to our business. We
currently hold a small but growing patent portfolio. We also have a number of registered trademarks
that include Intuit, QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, ProSeries, Quicken and Mint. We have registered
these and other trademarks and service marks in the United States and, depending on the relevance
of each brand to other markets, in many foreign countries. Most registrations can be renewed
perpetually at 10-year intervals. We also license intellectual property from third parties for use
in our products.

Although our portfolio of patents is growing, the patents that have been issued to us could be
determined to be invalid and may not be enforceable against competitive products in every
jurisdiction. In addition, third parties have asserted and may, in the future, assert infringement
claims against us and our customers. These claims and any litigation may result in invalidation of
our proprietary rights or a finding of infringement along with an assessment of damages.
Litigation, even if without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and
management attention. In addition, third party licenses may not continue to be available to us on
commercially acceptable terms, or at all.

EMPLOYEES

As of July 31, 2010, we had approximately 7,700 employees in major offices in the United States,
Canada, India, the United Kingdom and other locations. We believe our future success and growth
will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of our business.
We do not currently have any collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and we believe
employee relations are generally good. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number
of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued service. We believe we offer
competitive compensation and a good working environment. We were named one ofFortunemagazine’s
“100 Best Companies to Work For” in each of the last nine years. However, we face intense
competition for qualified employees, and we expect to face continuing challenges in recruiting and
retention.







