Item 1.Business

Overview

Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company focused on discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing therapies for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) and other autoimmune disorders, neurodegenerative diseases and hemophilia. We also collaborate on the development and commercialization of RITUXAN for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and other conditions and share profits and losses for GAZYVA for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Summary information about our marketed products is set forth in the table below.

Product Revenuesto Biogen Idec (in millions)ProductIndicationsDevelopment orMarketing Collaborator201320122011AVONEX (1)Multiple sclerosisNone$3,005.5$2,913.1$2,686.6TYSABRI (2)Multiple sclerosisCrohn’s diseaseNone$1,526.5$1,135.9$1,079.5TECFIDERA (3)Multiple sclerosisNone$876.1$—$—FAMPYRA (4)Multiple sclerosis(walking ability)Acorda Therapeutics$74.0$57.4$13.6FUMADERM (5)PsoriasisNone$60.2$59.7$54.7Unconsolidated Joint BusinessRevenues to Biogen Idec (in millions)201320122011RITUXAN (6)Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomaRheumatoid arthritisChronic lymphocytic leukemiaANCA-associated vasculitisGenentech(Roche Group)$1,126.0$1,137.9$996.6

(1)AVONEX (interferon beta-1a), injection for intramuscular use, is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsing forms of MS to slow the accumulation of physical disability and decrease the frequency of clinical exacerbations.

(2)TYSABRI (natalizumab), injection for intravenous infusion, is indicated (1) as a monotherapy for the treatment of patients with relapsing forms of MS to delay the accumulation of physical disability and reduce the frequency of clinical exacerbations and (2) in the U.S. for inducing and maintaining clinical response and remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease with evidence of inflammation who have had an inadequate response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional Crohn's disease therapies and TNF inhibitors.

We previously collaborated with Elan Pharma International, Ltd (Elan), an affiliate of Elan Corporation, plc. on the development, manufacture and commercialization of TYSABRI. On April 2, 2013, we acquired full ownership of, and strategic, commercial and decision-making rights to, TYSABRI. Upon the closing of the transaction, our collaboration agreement with Elan was terminated.

(3)TECFIDERA (dimethyl fumarate), delayed release capsules for oral use, is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsing forms of MS. TECFIDERA was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in March 2013.     In February 2014, the European Commission (EC) approved the use of TECFIDERA in the European Union (E.U.) as a first-line oral treatment for people with relapsing-remitting MS.

(4)FAMPYRA (prolonged-release fampridine tablets) is indicated for the improvement of walking ability in adult patients with MS who have walking disability.

(5)FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters), prolonged release tablets,is only approved in Germany and is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis for whom topical therapy is ineffective.

(6)RITUXAN (rituximab), injection for intravenous infusion, is indicated for the treatment of (1)(a) relapsed or refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) as a single agent, (b) previously untreated follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with first line chemotherapy and, in patients achieving a complete or partial response to RITUXAN in combination with chemotherapy, as a single-agent maintenance therapy, (c) non-progressing (including stable disease), low-grade, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single agent, after first-line CVP chemotherapy, and (d) previously untreated diffuse large B-cell, CD20-positive NHL in combination with CHOP or









other anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens, (2) patients with CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic leukemia in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, (3) moderately- to severely-active rheumatoid arthritis, in combination with methotrexate, in adult patients who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies, and (4) Wegener's Granulomatosis and Microscopic Polyangiitis, in combination with glucocorticoids, in adult patients.

Additional financial information about our product revenues, other revenues, significant customers and geographic areas in which we operate is set forth in our consolidated financial statements, in Note 25,Segment Informationto our consolidated financial statements, and in Item 6.Selected Financial Dataand in Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsincluded in this report. A discussion of the risks attendant to our operations is set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of this report.

We devote significant resources to research and development programs and external business development opportunities, as summarized in the table below:

(In millions)201320122011Research and development$1,444.1$1,334.9$1,219.6Amortization of acquired intangible assets$342.9$202.2$208.6(Gain) loss on fair value remeasurement of contingent consideration$(0.5)$27.2$36.1

Additional information about our research and development programs and business development activity during 2013 is set forth below under the subsections entitled “Research and Development Programs” and “Business Development.”

We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a Delaware corporation in 1997. In 2003, we acquired Biogen, Inc. and changed our corporate name from IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation to Biogen Idec Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 225 Binney Street, Cambridge, MA 02142 and our telephone number is (617) 679-2000. Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available free of charge through the Investors section of our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We include our website address in this report only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this report.

Marketed Products

MS Products

We develop, manufacture and market a number of products designed to treat patients with MS. MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death. Patients with active relapsing MS experience an uneven pattern of disease progression characterized by periods of stability that are interrupted by flare-ups of the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of functioning.

AVONEX

AVONEX is one of the most prescribed treatments for relapsing forms of MS worldwide. AVONEX is a recombinant form of the interferon beta protein produced in the body in response to viral infection. In February 2012, the FDA approved two separate dosing innovations designed to improve the treatment experience for patients receiving once-a-week AVONEX for relapsing forms of MS: AVONEX PEN and a new dose titration regimen. AVONEX PEN is the first intramuscular autoinjector approved for MS and is designed to enhance the self-injection process for patients receiving AVONEX therapy. The dose titration regimen, facilitated by the AVOSTARTGRIP titration devices, provides patients with the option to gradually increase the dose of AVONEX at treatment initiation to reduce the incidence and severity of flu-like symptoms that patients may experience with therapy. These AVONEX dosing innovations are commercially available in the E.U., U.S. and other countries, and were recently approved for marketing in Japan.

TYSABRI

TYSABRI has advanced the treatment of relapsing MS with its established efficacy. TYSABRI is a monoclonal antibody approved in numerous countries as a monotherapy for relapsing MS and is also approved in the U.S. to treat Crohn's disease, an inflammatory disease of the intestines.









TYSABRI increases the risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an opportunistic infection of the brain by the JC virus (JCV) that usually leads to death or severe disability. Infection by the JC virus is required for the development of PML and patients who are anti-JCV antibody positive have a higher risk of developing PML. Factors that increase the risk of PML are presence of anti-JCV antibodies, prior immunosuppressant use, and longer TYSABRI treatment duration. Patients who have all three risk factors have the highest risk of developing PML. Reports of cases of PML in patients treated with TYSABRI in clinical studies led us to voluntarily suspend the marketing and commercial distribution of TYSABRI in February 2005 until its reintroduction to the market in July 2006. Because of the risk of PML, TYSABRI has a boxed warning and is marketed under risk management or minimization plans approved by regulatory authorities. In the U.S., for example, TYSABRI is marketed under the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a restricted distribution program designed to assess and minimize the risk of PML, minimize death and disability due to PML, and promote informed benefit-risk decisions regarding TYSABRI use.

U.S. and E.U. regulators continue to monitor and assess on an ongoing basis the criteria for confirming PML diagnosis, the number of PML cases, the incidence of PML in TYSABRI patients, the risk factors for PML, and TYSABRI's benefit-risk profile, which could result in modifications to the approved labels or other restrictions on TYSABRI treatment. We continue to research and develop protocols and therapies that may reduce risk and improve outcomes of PML in patients.

In 2012, the FDA approved the inclusion in the U.S. product label for TYSABRI of anti-JCV antibody status as an additional factor in stratifying patients for developing PML and a table summarizing the estimated incidence of PML according to the duration of TYSABRI treatment, prior immunosuppressant use and anti-JCV antibody status. In addition, the FDA granted Quest Diagnostics a de novo classification petition for the STRATIFY JCV Antibody ELISA testing service, which allows neurologists to determine their MS patients' anti-JCV antibody status. A second generation assay capable of detecting JCV antibodies at lower concentrations than the original assay, known as STRATIFY DX SELECT JCV Antibody ELISA, has also been developed.

2013Developments

•We previously collaborated with Elan on the development, manufacture and commercialization of TYSABRI. On April 2, 2013, we acquired full ownership of, and strategic, commercial and decision-making rights to, TYSABRI from Elan, for an upfront payment of$3.25 billiontogether with an agreement to make contingent payments to Elan. Upon the closing of the transaction, our collaboration agreement with Elan was terminated. For additional information related to this relationship, please read Note 2,Acquisitionsand Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included within this report.

•In 2013, the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved updates to the TYSABRI product labels. In July 2013, the EMA approved an expanded indication statement for TYSABRI to include glatiramer acetate (GA) treatment failures in the definition of non-responders eligible for TYSABRI, and in December 2013, the FDA approved a modification to the indication statement in the U.S. product label for TYSABRI clarifying the intended use of TYSABRI for people living with relapsing forms of MS, as well as updates to certain safety information. In May 2013, we withdrew the variation in our application we submitted to the EMA requesting to expand the indication statement to allow first-line use of TYSABRI for people living with certain relapsing forms of MS who have tested negative for antibodies to the JC virus.

•In 2013, we submitted an application for approval of TYSABRI in Japan.

TECFIDERA

TECFIDERA is our first-line oral treatment for people with relapsing forms of MS. TECFIDERA was approved by the FDA in March 2013 and by regulatory authorities in Canada and Australia in April 2013 and July 2013, respectively. In February 2014, the EC approved the use of TECFIDERA in the E.U. as a first-line oral treatment for people with relapsing-remitting MS. TECFIDERA is also currently under review by regulatory authorities in additional markets.

We acquired TECFIDERA as part of our acquisition of Fumapharm AG in 2006. For more information about this acquisition and associated milestone obligations, please read the subsection entitled “Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements - Contingent Consideration related to Business Combinations” of our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

FAMPYRA

FAMPYRA is the first treatment that addresses the unmet medical need of walking improvement in adult patients with MS who have walking disability. FAMPYRA is a prolonged-release tablet formulation of the drug fampridine. FAMPYRA has been approved in over 50 countries across Europe, Asia and the Americas, and we anticipate making FAMPYRA commercially available in additional markets in 2014.









We have a license from Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. to develop and commercialize FAMPYRA in all markets outside the U.S. For information about this relationship, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

2013Developments

•The EC granted a conditional marketing authorization for FAMPYRA in the E.U. in July 2011. A conditional marketing authorization is renewable annually and is granted to a medicinal product with a positive benefit-risk assessment that fulfills an unmet medical need when the benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. This marketing authorization was renewed as of July 2013. To meet the conditions of this marketing authorization, we will continue to provide additional data from on-going clinical studies regarding FAMPYRA's benefits and safety.

Other Products

FUMADERM

FUMADERM is approved for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in Germany. Psoriasis is a skin disease in which cells build up on the skin surface and form scales and red patches.

RITUXAN

RITUXAN is a widely prescribed monoclonal antibody used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and two forms of ANCA-associated vasculitis. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are cancers that affect lymphocytes, which are a type of white blood cell that help to fight infection. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease that occurs when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's joints, resulting in inflammation, pain and joint damage. ANCA-associated vasculitis is a rare autoimmune disease that largely affects the small blood vessels of the kidneys, lungs, sinuses, and a variety of other organs.

In the U.S., we collaborate with Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group, on the development and commercialization of RITUXAN. For information about this collaboration, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

GAZYVA

GAZYVA (obinutuzumab), injection for intravenous infusion, in combination with chlorambucil, is indicated for the treatment of patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The FDA granted GAZYVA breakthrough therapy designation due to the significance of the positive progression-free survival results from the Phase 3 CLL11 clinical trial and the serious and life threatening nature of CLL. GAZYVA, formerly known as GA101, was approved by the FDA in November 2013.

In the U.S., we share operating profits and losses relating to GAZYVA with Genentech. The Roche Group and its sub-licensees maintain sole responsibility for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of GAZYVA in the U.S. For information about our agreement with Genentech, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Other Sources of Revenue

Our other sources of revenue consist of royalties we receive from net sales of products related to patents that we licensed (royalty revenues) and revenues from our contract manufacturing, product supply and biosimilar arrangements (corporate partner revenues). Summary information about our other sources of revenue is set forth in the table below:

(In millions)201320122011Royalty revenues$185.7$168.7$158.5Corporate partner revenues$78.2$43.8$57.4









Our most significant source of royalty revenue is derived from net worldwide sales of ANGIOMAX, which is licensed to The Medicines Company (TMC). TMC markets ANGIOMAX primarily in the U.S. and Europe for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Under the terms of our royalty arrangement for ANGIOMAX, TMC is obligated to pay us royalties earned, on a country-by-country basis, until the later of (1) twelve years from the date of the first commercial sale of ANGIOMAX in such country or (2) the date upon which the product is no longer covered by a licensed patent in such country. The annual royalty rate is reduced by a specified percentage in any country where the product is no longer covered by a licensed patent and where sales have been reduced to a certain volume-based market share. TMC began selling ANGIOMAX in the U.S. in January 2001. In March 2012, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted the extension of the term of the principal U.S. patent that covers ANGIOMAX to December 15, 2014. We expect royalty revenue to decrease significantly when the term of the U.S. patent covering ANGIOMAX expires. For a further description of our royalty arrangement with TMC, please read the subsection entitled “Other Revenues - Royalty Revenues” in the “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report.

Research and Development Programs

A commitment to research is fundamental to our mission at Biogen Idec. Our research and development strategy is to discover and develop first-in-class molecules or best-in-class molecules that improve safety or efficacy for unmet medical needs. By applying our expertise in biologics and our growing capabilities in small-molecule and anti-sense drug discovery and development, we target specific medical needs where new or better treatments are needed.

We intend to continue committing significant resources to research and development opportunities. As part of our ongoing research and development efforts, we have devoted significant resources to conducting clinical studies to advance the development of new pharmaceutical products and to explore the utility of our existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently approved in their labels. The table below highlights our current research and development programs that are in clinical trials. Drug development involves a high degree of risk and investment, and the status, timing and scope of our development programs are subject to change. Important factors that could adversely affect our drug development efforts are discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of this report.

Therapeutic AreaProduct CandidateTargeted IndicationsCollaboratorStatusNeurologyPLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a)MSNoneU.S. BLA and EMA marketing authorisation application submitted and under regulatory reviewDaclizumab High Yield Process (HYP)MSAbbVie BiotherapeuticsPhase 3TYSABRISecondary progressive MSNonePhase 3StrokeNonePhase 2Anti-LINGOOptic NeuritisNonePhase 2MSNonePhase 2NeublastinNeuropathic painNonePhase 2BIIB037Alzheimer’s diseaseNonePhase 1bISIS - SMNRxSpinal muscular atrophyIsis PharmaceuticalsPhase 1b/2aBIIB061MSNonePhase 1HemophiliaALPROLIX [Coagulation Factor IX, Fc Fusion Protein (Recombinant)]Hemophilia BSwedish Orphan BiovitrumU.S. BLA submitted and under regulatory reviewELOCTATE [(Antihemophilic Factor, Fc Fusion Protein (Recombinant)]Hemophilia ASwedish Orphan BiovitrumU.S. BLA submitted and under regulatory reviewImmunologySTX-100Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosisNonePhase 2aAnti-TWEAKLupus nephritisNonePhase 2Anti-CD40 LigandGeneral lupusUCB, Inc.Phase 1OtherGAZYVA (obinutuzumab)Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomaGenentech (Roche Group)Phase 3









Late Stage Product Candidates

Additional information about our late stage product candidates is set forth below.

PLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a)

PLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a) is designed to prolong the effects and reduce the dosing frequency of interferon beta-1a.

In January 2013, we released the top-line efficacy analysis and safety data from the first year of the two-year global Phase 3 study, ADVANCE. Results support PLEGRIDY as a potential treatment dosed every two weeks or every four weeks for relapsing-remitting MS. The primary endpoint of ADVANCE, annualized relapse rate at one year, was met for both the two-week and four-week dosing regimens. Results showed that PLEGRIDY also met the secondary endpoints of risk of 12-week confirmed disability progression, proportion of patients who relapsed and magnetic resonance imaging assessments for both dose regimens.

During the second quarter of 2013, we submitted a Biologics License Application (BLA) to the FDA and a Marketing Authorisation Application to the EMA, in each case for marketing approval of PLEGRIDY in relapsing forms of MS. The regulatory submission was based on the results from the first year of the two-year global Phase 3 ADVANCE study. The FDA accepted our application in July 2013, and granted us a standard review timeline. The EMA validated our application in June2013. We have also submitted a regulatory application for PLEGRIDY in Japan.

Daclizumab High Yield Process (HYP)

Daclizumab HYP is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in relapsing-remitting MS. In April 2012, we completed patient enrollment in a Phase 3 study of daclizumab in relapsing-remitting MS, known as DECIDE, evaluating the efficacy and safety of daclizumab compared to interferon beta-1a (AVONEX). The DECIDE study is designed to have a two year endpoint and involves approximately 1,800 patients.

In August 2011, we announced positive results from SELECT, a global, registrational Phase 2b study designed to evaluate Daclizumab HYP in relapsing-remitting MS over one year. Results showed that Daclizumab HYP, administered subcutaneously once every four weeks, met primary and key secondary study endpoints, compared to placebo.

We collaborate with AbbVie Biotherapuetics, Inc., a subsidiary of AbbVie, Inc., on the development and commercialization of Daclizumab HYP. For information about this collaboration, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

TYSABRI (SPMS)

In May 2013, we completed patient enrollment in a Phase 3b study of TYSABRI in secondary progressive MS, known as ASCEND. The study is designed to have an endpoint of approximately two years and involves approximately 875 patients.  Secondary progressive MS is characterized by a steady progression of nerve damage, symptoms and disability.

Hemophilia Product Candidates

ELOCTATE [Antihemophilic Factor, Fc Fusion Protein (Recombinant)]

In October 2012, we announced positive top-line results from the Phase 3 study, known as A-LONG, investigating ELOCTATE in hemophilia A, a rare inherited disorder which inhibits blood coagulation. Top-line results from the A-LONG study showed that ELOCTATE was effective in the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, routine prophylaxis and perioperative management. Based on the results from the A-LONG clinical trial, we submitted a BLA to the FDA for marketing approval of ELOCTATE in the first quarter of 2013. In May 2013, the FDA accepted our application for ELOCTATE and granted us a standard review timeline. In October 2013, we announced that the FDA had requested additional information pertaining to the validation of certain steps in the manufacturing process for ELOCTATE. In December 2013, the FDA extended the initial Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date for the FDA’s review our application by three months, which is a standard extension period.

We have submitted additional regulatory applications for ELOCTATE in Australia, Canada and Japan.

Pediatric data will be required as part of the Marketing Authorisation Application for ELOCTATE that we plan to submit to the EMA, and we have initiated a global pediatric study of ELOCTATE.









ALPROLIX [Coagulation Factor IX, Fc fusion protein (Recombinant)]

In September 2012, we announced positive top-line results from the Phase 3 study, known as B-LONG, investigating ALPROLIX in hemophilia B, a rare inherited disorder which inhibits blood coagulation. Top-line results from the B-LONG study showed that ALPROLIX was effective in the control and prevention of bleeding episodes, routine prophylaxis, and perioperative management.Based on this data, we submitted a BLA to the FDA for marketing approval of ALPROLIX in the fourth quarter of 2012. In March 2013, the FDA accepted our application for ALPROLIX and granted us a standard review timeline. In November 2013, in response to a request from FDA, we submitted additional information to the FDA related to the validation of a manufacturing step for ALPROLIX. Due to the timing of this submission, the FDA extended the initial PDUFA date for its review of our application by three months, which is a standard extension period.

We have submitted additional regulatory applications for ALPROLIX in Australia, Canada and Japan.

Pediatric data will be required as part of the Marketing Authorisation Application for ALPROLIX that we plan to submit to the EMA, and we have initiated a global pediatric study of ALPROLIX.

We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB on the development and commercialization of ELOCATE and ALPROLIX. For information about this collaboration, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

GAZYVA

The Roche Group is managing the following Phase 3 studies of GAZYVA:

•GOYA: investigating the efficacy and safety of GAZYVA in combination with CHOP chemotherapy compared to RITUXAN with CHOP chemotherapy in previously untreated patients with CD20-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

•GALLIUM: investigating the efficacy and safety of GAZYVA in combination with chemotherapy followed by maintenance with GAZYVA compared to RITUXAN in combination with chemotherapy followed by maintenance with RITUXAN in previously untreated patients with indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

•GADOLIN: investigating the efficacy and safety of GAZYVA plus bendamustine compared with bendamustine alone in patients with RITUXAN-refractory, indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

For information about our agreement with Genentech, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Business Development

In January 2014, we entered into an exclusive worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo BioSciences, Inc. (Sangamo) focused on the development of therapeutics for hemoglobinopathies, inherited conditions that result from the abnormal structure or underproduction of hemoglobin. Under the terms of the agreement, Sangamo is responsible for all research and development activities through the first clinical proof of concept trial in beta-thalassemia, and both companies will perform activities to enable submission of an Investigational New Drug application for sickle cell disease. We will be responsible for subsequent worldwide clinical development, manufacturing and commercialization of products arising from the alliance. Sangamo retains an option to co-promote any licensed product to treat sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia in the U.S. Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including antitrust clearance in the U.S. under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. For additional information about this transaction, please read Note 27,Subsequent Eventsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

In December 2013, pursuant to our joint venture agreement with Samsung Biologics, we exercised our right to enter into an agreement with Samsung Bioepis to commercialize anti-TNF biosimilar product candidates in Europe. Under the agreement, we will be responsible for commercialization of these product candidates across Europe. For additional information about this transaction and our joint venture agreement with Samsung Biologics, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

In December 2013, we entered into a collaborative research, development, commercialization and license agreement with Proteostasis Therapeutics, Inc. (Proteostasis) under which both companies will develop and commercialize small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of neurological diseases. For additional information about this transaction, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.









In September 2013, we entered into a six-year research collaboration with Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Isis) under which both companies will perform discovery level research and develop and commercialize antisense and other therapeutics for the treatment of neurological disorders. Under the collaboration, Isis will perform research on a set of neurological targets identified within the agreement. Once the research has reached a specific stage of development we will make the determination whether antisense is the preferred approach to develop a therapeutic candidate or whether another modality is preferred. If antisense is selected, Isis will continue development and identify a product candidate. If another modality is used, we will assume the responsibility for identifying a product candidate and developing it. For additional information about this transaction, please read Note 20,Collaborative and Other Relationshipsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

In July 2013, we entered into a Platform Agreement with Adimab LLC (Adimab). Pursuant to the agreement, Adimab granted us a non-exclusive license to its proprietary antibody discovery platform that enables our researchers to utilize the Adimab technology for the discovery and optimization of all antibody formats, including bispecific antibodies.

In April 2013, we acquired full ownership of, and strategic, commercial and decision-making rights to, TYSABRI from Elan. Upon the closing of the transaction, our collaboration agreement with Elan was terminated. For additional information about this transaction, please read Note 2,Acquisitionsto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights

Patents are important to developing and protecting exclusive rights in our drugs and drug candidates. We regularly seek patent protection in the U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for inventions originating from our research and development efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and patent applications. U.S. patents, as well as most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years from the date the earliest application was filed; however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed before June 8, 1995 may be effective until 17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the 20 year date. In some cases, the patent term may be extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA regulatory review or because of U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. The duration of foreign patents varies similarly, in accordance with local law.

Regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, also can provide meaningful protection for our products. Regulatory data protection provides to the holder of a drug or biologic marketing authorization, for a set period of time, the exclusive use of the proprietary pre-clinical and clinical data that it created at significant cost and submitted to the applicable regulatory authority to obtain approval of its product. Our products also may qualify for market protection from regulatory authorities, pursuant to which a regulatory authority may not permit for a set period of time, the approval or commercialization of another product containing the same active ingredient(s) as our product. After that set period of time, third parties are then permitted to rely upon our data to obtain approval of their abbreviated applications to market generic drugs and biosimilars. Although the World Trade Organization's agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) requires signatory countries to provide regulatory exclusivity to innovative pharmaceutical products, implementation and enforcement varies widely from country to country.

We also rely upon other forms of unpatented confidential information to remain competitive. We protect such information principally through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these agreements also provide, in compliance with relevant law, that inventions and other intellectual property conceived by such employees during their employment shall be our exclusive property.

Our trademarks, including AVONEX, RITUXAN, TECFIDERA and TYSABRI, are important to us and are generally covered by trademark applications or registrations in the USPTO and the patent or trademark offices of other countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties, such as the trademark FAMPYRA which we license from Acorda Therapeutics.  Trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. Trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.

A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent position and proprietary rights is set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of this report.

Additional information about the patents and other proprietary rights covering our marketed products and several of our late-stage product candidates is set forth below.









AVONEX and PLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a)

Our U.S. patent no. 7,588,755, granted in September 2009, claims the use of recombinant beta interferon for immunomodulation or treating a viral condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors. This patent, which expires in September 2026, covers the treatment of MS with our product AVONEX, as well as the treatment of MS with our product candidate PLEGRIDY. A discussion of legal proceedings related to this patent is set forth in Note 21,Litigationto our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Additionally, we and another party each own a pending U.S. patent application related to recombinant interferon-beta protein. These applications, which fall outside of the GATT amendments to the U.S. patent statute, are not published by the USPTO and, if they mature into granted patents, may be entitled to a term of seventeen years from the grant date. There is a pending interference proceeding in the USPTO involving these applications. We do not know whether either of these applications will mature into patents with claims relevant to AVONEX or to PLEGRIDY.

Additional protection for PLEGRIDY is provided by patents and patent applications with expiration dates in 2021 in the U.S. and 2019 in the E.U., with the potential for patent term extension. We also expect that PLEGRIDY, if approved, will be granted regulatory exclusivity for 12 years from approval in the U.S. and 10 years from approval in the E.U.

TYSABRI

We have patents and patent applications covering TYSABRI in the U.S. and other countries. These patents and patent applications cover TYSABRI and related manufacturing methods, as well as various methods of treatment using the product. The principal patents covering the product and use of the product to treat MS are U.S. patent nos. 5,840,299 and 6,602,503 and European patent no. (EP) 0804237, which expire between 2015 and 2020. Additional U.S. patents and applications covering methods of treatment using the product and methods of manufacturing the product generally expire between 2014 and 2023. In other countries, additional patents and patent applications covering methods of treatment using the product and methods of manufacturing the product expire between 2014 and 2023, subject to any supplemental protection (i.e., patent term extension) certificates that may be obtained.

TECFIDERA

We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and a number of corresponding foreign counterparts, related to TECFIDERA.

Our principal U.S. patents and expiration dates, subject to any available patent term extension following product approval, are:

•U.S. patent no. 6,509,376, having claims to formulations of dimethyl fumarate for use in the treatment of autoimmune diseases including MS, expiring in 2019;

•U.S. patent no. 7,320,999, having claims to a method of treating MS using dimethyl fumarate, expiring in 2020;

•U.S. patent no. 7,619,001, having claims to a method of treating MS using dimethyl fumarate, monomethyl fumarate, or a combination thereof, expiring in 2018;

•U.S. patent no. 7,803,840, having claims to a method of treating an autoimmune disease selected from autoimmune polyarthritis and MS using dimethyl fumarate, expiring in 2018;

•U.S. patent no. 8,399,514, covering the dosing regimen of 240 mg of TECFIDERA administered twice a day, expiring in 2028; and

•U.S. patent no. 8,524,773, having claims to a method of treating MS using monomethyl fumarate, expiring in 2018.

Our principal European patents expiration dates, subject to any potential supplemental patent certificates that may be available, are:

•EP 1131065, directed to formulations of dimethyl fumarate and to uses thereof for treating autoimmune diseases, including MS, expiring in 2019; and

•EP 2137537, the counterpart patent to our U.S. patent covering the dosing regimen of 240 mg of TECFIDERA administered twice a day, expiring in 2028.









In addition to patent protection, in the U.S. TECFIDERA is entitled to regulatory exclusivity afforded to new chemical entities until 2018. In the E.U., the EMA has determined that dimethyl fumurate in TECFIDERA qualifies as a new active substance (NAS). TECFIDERA is entitled to regulatory exclusivity in the E.U., which is expected to provide 8 years of data protection plus two years of market exclusivity from the date of notification of approval of our marketing application by the EC in February 2014.

RITUXAN and Anti-CD20 Antibodies

We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and numerous corresponding foreign counterparts, directed to anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. The principal patents with claims to RITUXAN or its uses expire in the U.S. between 2015 and 2018 and expired in the rest of the world in 2013, subject to any available patent term extensions. In addition, we and our collaborator, Genentech, have filed numerous patent applications directed to anti-CD20 antibodies and their uses to treat various diseases. These pending patent applications have the potential of issuing as patents in the U.S. and in the rest of world with claims to anti-CD20 antibody molecules for periods beyond those stated above for RITUXAN. In 2008, a European patent of ours claiming the treatment with anti-CD20 antibodies of certain auto-immune indications, includingrheumatoid arthritis, was revoked by the European Patent Office.

Genentech, our collaborator on RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These patents have expired or will expire between 2007 and 2014. We, along with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in our co-promotion territory on sales of RITUXAN.

FAMPYRA

We have an exclusive license under two European granted patents, several pending European patent applications and numerous corresponding non-U.S. counterpart applications related to FAMPYRA. European patent EP 0484186B1 claims pharmaceutical formulations containing aminopyridines including fampridine. This patent expired in November 2011 but is subject to pending and granted supplemental protection (i.e., patent term extension) certificates which, if granted, will extend the patent term to 2016 on a country-by-country basis. European patent EP 1732548B1, which claims sustained-release aminopyridine compositions for increasing walking speed in patients with MS, and EP 2377536B1, which claims sustained-release aminopyridine compositions for treating multiple sclerosis both expire in 2025 but are subject to pending and granted supplemental protection certificates which, if granted, will extend one of the patents’ term to 2026 on a country-by-country basis. In addition to these patent rights, FAMPYRA is covered by regulatory exclusivity in Europe expected until 2021.

ELOCTATE [Antihemophilic Factor, Fc Fusion Protein (Recombinant)] and ALPROLIX [Coagulation Factor IX, Fc fusion protein (Recombinant)]

We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and a number of corresponding foreign counterparts, related to ELOCTATE and ALPROLIX, our long-lasting recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX product candidates and their use, including U.S. patents nos. 7,404,956, 8,329,182, 7,348,004 and 7,862,820. These patents will expire between 2024 and 2025, and some may be entitled to additional patent term pursuant to the patent term adjustment or patent term extension provisions of the U.S. patent laws. Related European patents EP 1624891 and EP 1625208 expire in 2024 and may be entitled to additional patent term in at least some countries. Additionally, pending patent applications, if granted, would provide additional patent protection through 2033.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We use customary pharmaceutical company practices to market our products and to educate physicians, such as sales representatives calling on individual physicians, advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, public relations and other methods. We provide customer service and other related programs for our products, such as disease and product-specific websites, insurance research services and order, delivery and fulfillment services. We have also established programs in the U.S. which provide qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with marketed products at no or reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria. Additional information about our sales, marketing and distribution efforts for our marketed products is set forth below.









AVONEX

We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the rest of world in the face of increased competition, including from our own products and products of our competitors. The principal markets for AVONEX are the U.S., Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. In the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and most of the major countries of the E.U., we market and sell AVONEX through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX to distribution partners who are then responsible for most marketing and distribution activities.

TYSABRI

The principal markets for TYSABRI are the U.S., the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Spain. Following the completion of our acquisition of 100% of the rights to TYSABRI from Elan in April 2013, we are solely responsible for the marketing and sale of TYSABRI for MS in the U.S. and the rest of world. We use a combination of our own sales force and marketing group and third party service providers for our marketing and distribution of TYSABRI.

TECFIDERA

The principal market for TECFIDERA is the U.S. and the E.U. In the U.S., E.U., Canada and Australia, we market and sell TECFIDERA through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute TECFIDERA principally through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or shipping service providers.

RITUXAN and GAZYVA

The Roche Group and its sub-licensees market and sell RITUXAN worldwide. In the U.S., we collaborate with Genentech on the development and commercialization of RITUXAN, but Genentech maintains sole responsibility for the U.S. sales and marketing efforts related to RITUXAN. RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers, specialty distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies.

Pursuant to our agreement with Genentech, the Roche Group and its sub-licensees will maintain sole responsibility for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of GAZYVA in the U.S.

FAMPYRA

We market and sell FAMPYRA in major markets outside the U.S., such as France, Germany, Spain and Canada, through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute FAMPYRA in those markets principally through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products. In other countries outside the U.S., we sell FAMPYRA to distribution partners who are then responsible for most marketing and distribution activities. Our commercialization rights do not include the U.S. market.

FUMADERM

FUMADERM is marketed only in Germany, through our own sales force and marketing group.

Competition

Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and comes from many and varied sources, including specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop products similar to those we are developing or already market and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we do.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry is based on managerial and technological excellence and innovation as well as establishing patent and other proprietary positions through research and development. The achievement of a leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to identify and exploit commercially the products resulting from research and the availability of adequate financial resources to fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and technicians. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific personnel.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety, convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition, early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the testing and approval process and supply commercial quantities of products will have an important impact on our competitive position.









We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the emergence of biosimilars. In the U.S., a number of our marketed products, including AVONEX, TYSABRI and RITUXAN, are licensed under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) as biological products. In March 2010, U.S. healthcare reform legislation amended the PHSA to authorize the FDA to approve biological products, known as biosimilars or follow-on biologics, that are shown to be highly similar to previously approved biological products based upon potentially abbreviated data packages. The approval pathway for biosimilars does, however, grant a biologics manufacturer a 12 year period of exclusivity from the date of approval of its biological product before biosimilar competition can be introduced. Biosimilars legislation has also been in place in the E.U. since 2003. In December 2012, guidelines issued by the EMA for approving biosimilars of marketed monoclonal antibody products became effective. If a biosimilar version of one of our products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that product.

Additional information about the competition that our marketed products face is set forth below.

AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA

Each of AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA competes with the following products:

•COPAXONE (glatiramer acetate), which is marketed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues of approximately $4.0 billion in 2012.

•REBIF (interferon-beta-1a), which is marketed by Merck (and co-promoted with Pfizer Inc. in the U.S.).  REBIF generated worldwide revenues of approximately $2.5 billion in 2012.

•BETASERON/BETAFERON (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by the Bayer Group.  BETASERON/BETAFERON generated worldwide revenues of approximately $1.6 billion in 2012.

•EXTAVIA (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Novartis AG.  EXTAVIA generated worldwide revenues of approximately $159.0 million in 2012.

•GILENYA (fingolimod), which is marketed by Novartis AG. GILENYA generated worldwide revenues of approximately $1.2 billion in 2012.

•AUBAGIO (teriflunomide), which is marketed by Sanofi. AUBAGIO generated worldwide revenues of approximately $9.2 million in 2012.

Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop additional treatments for MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA or all of them. For example, a marketing application for LEMTRADA (alemtuzumab) (developed by Sanofi) has been approved in the E.U. as a treatment for MS in September 2013. In addition, the commercialization of our own products, such as TECFIDERA, may negatively impact future sales of AVONEX, TYSABRI or both. Further, following the expected expiration of Teva Pharmaceutical’s patent protection for COPAXONE (May 2014 for its U.S. patents and in May 2015 for its European patents), we anticipate that additional companies will introduce similar versions of COPAXONE that may also create further competition in the MS market.

FAMPYRA

FAMPYRA is indicated as a treatment to improve walking in adult patients with MS who have walking disability and is the first treatment that addresses this unmet medical need with demonstrated efficacy in people with all types of MS. FAMPYRA is currently the only therapy approved to improve walking in patients with MS, and benefits from exclusivity rights that prohibit generic versions from being marketed.

FUMADERM

FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.

RITUXAN IN ONCOLOGY

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in the oncology market, including:

•TREANDA (bendamustine HCL) (marketed by Cephalon (Teva Pharmaceuticals)), which is indicated for CLL and for patients with indolent B-cell NHL that has progressed within 6 months of treatment with RITUXAN.

•ARZERRA (ofatumumab) (marketed by GenMab in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline), which is indicated for CLL patients refractory to both alemtuzumab and fludarabine.









We also expect that over time GAZYVA will compete with RITUXAN, TREANDA AND ARZERRA in the oncology market. In addition, we are aware of other anti-CD20 molecules, including biosimilars, in development that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN and GAZYVA in the oncology market.

RITUXAN IN RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS (RA)

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in the RA market, including:

•Traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen.

•TNF inhibitors, such as REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI and SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab) (marketed by Johnson & Johnson), HUMIRA (adalimumab) (marketed by AbbVie, Inc.), ENBREL (etanercept) (marketed by Amgen, Inc. and Pfizer) and CIMZIA (certolizumab pegol) (marketed by UCB, S.A.).

•ORENCIA (abatacept) (marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company).

•ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) (marketed by the Roche Group).

•XELJANZ (tofacitinib) (marketed by Pfizer).

We are also aware of other products, including biosimilars, in development that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN in the RA market.

Regulatory

Our current and contemplated activities and the products and processes that will result from such activities are subject to substantial government regulation.

Regulation of Pharmaceuticals

Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation in the United States

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the U.S., preclinical studies and clinical trials of the products must be conducted and the results submitted to the FDA for approval. With limited exceptions, the FDA requires companies to register both pre-approval and post-approval clinical trials and disclose clinical trial results in public databases. Failure to register a trial or disclose study results within the required time periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary penalties. Clinical trial programs must establish efficacy, determine an appropriate dose and dosing regimen, and define the conditions for safe use. This is a high-risk process that requires stepwise clinical studies in which the candidate product must successfully meet predetermined endpoints. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA or a New Drug Application (NDA). In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval.

Product development and receipt of regulatory approval takes a number of years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments, potential safety signals observed in preclinical or clinical tests, and the risks and benefits of the product as demonstrated in clinical trials. The FDA has substantial discretion in the product approval process, and it is impossible to predict with any certainty whether and when the FDA will grant marketing approval. The agency may on occasion require the sponsor of a BLA or NDA to conduct additional clinical studies or to provide other scientific or technical information about the product, and these additional requirements may lead to unanticipated delay or expense. Furthermore, even if a product is approved, the approval may be subject to limitations based on the FDA's interpretation of the existing pre-clinical or clinical data.

The FDA has developed four distinct approaches intended to make therapeutically important drugs available as rapidly as possible, especially when the drugs are the first available treatment or have advantages over existing treatments: accelerated approval, fast track, breakthrough therapy, and priority review.









The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” status to products that treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments. Under this pathway, the FDA may approve a product based on surrogate endpoints, or clinical endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. Under the agency's accelerated approval regulations, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it may require certain post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use. In addition, for products approved under accelerated approval, sponsors may be required to submit all copies of their promotional materials, including advertisements, to the FDA at least thirty days prior to initial dissemination. The FDA may withdraw approval under accelerated approval after a hearing if, for instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify any clinical benefit, it becomes clear that restrictions on the distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its safe use, or if a sponsor fails to comply with the conditions of the accelerated approval.

In addition, the FDA may grant “fast track” status to products that treat serious diseases or conditions and fill an unmet medical need. Fast track is a process designed to expedite the review of such products by providing, among other things, more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the product's development plan, more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about trial design, eligibility for accelerated approval, and rolling review, which allows submission of individually completed sections of a NDA or BLA for FDA review before the entire filing is completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.

The FDA may also grant “breakthrough therapy” status to drugs designed to treat, alone or in combination with another drug or drugs, a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and for which preliminary evidence suggests a substantial improvement over existing therapies.  Such drugs need not address an unmet need, but are nevertheless eligible for expedited review if they offer the potential for an improvement. Breakthrough therapy status entitles the sponsor to earlier and more frequent meetings with the FDA regarding the development of nonclinical and clinical data and permits the FDA to offer product development or regulatory advice for the purpose of shortening the time to product approval. Breakthrough therapy status does not guarantee that a product will be developed or reviewed more quickly and does not ensure FDA approval.

Finally, the FDA may grant “priority review” status to products that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. Priority review is intended to reduce the time it takes for the FDA to review a NDA or BLA.

Regardless of the approval pathway employed, the FDA may require a sponsor to conduct additional post-marketing studies as a condition of approval to provide data on safety and effectiveness. If a sponsor fails to conduct the required studies, the agency may withdraw its approval. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it can mandate post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use. In such a case, the sponsor may be required to establish rigorous systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions. These systems are usually referred to as Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS). The FDA can impose financial penalties for failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments, including REMS. In addition, any changes to an approved REMS must be reviewed and approved by the FDA prior to implementation.

We monitor information on side effects and adverse events reported during clinical studies and after marketing approval and report such information and events to regulatory agencies. Non-compliance with the FDA's safety reporting requirements may result in civil or criminal penalties. Side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Based on new safety information that emerges after approval, the FDA can mandate product labeling changes, impose a new REMS or the addition of elements to an existing REMS, require new post-marketing studies (including additional clinical trials), or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. These requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals.

If we seek to make certain types of changes to an approved product, such as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain ingredients or components, the FDA will need to review and approve such changes in advance. In the case of a new indication, we are required to demonstrate with additional clinical data that the product is safe and effective for a use other than that initially approved. FDA regulatory review may result in denial or modification of the planned changes, or requirements to conduct additional tests or evaluations that can substantially delay or increase the cost of the planned changes.









In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion activities and communications for products under its jurisdiction both before and after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However, physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the drug's labeling. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a physician's belief that the off-label use is the best treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the FDA regulations do impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label uses. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA, corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal penalties available to the FDA.

Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United States

We market our products in numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Most of these jurisdictions have product approval and post-approval regulatory processes that are similar in principle to those in the U.S. In Europe, where most of our ex-U.S. efforts are focused, there are several tracks for marketing approval, depending on the type of product for which approval is sought. Under the centralized procedure, a company submits a single application to the EMA. The marketing application is similar to the NDA or BLA in the U.S. and is evaluated by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the expert scientific committee of the EMA. If the CHMP determines that the marketing application fulfills the requirements for quality, safety, and efficacy, it will submit a favorable opinion to the EC. The CHMP opinion is not binding, but is typically adopted by the EC. A marketing application approved by the EC is valid in all member states. The centralized procedure is required for all biological products, orphan medicinal products, and new treatments for neurodegenerative disorders, and it is available for certain other products, including those which constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation.

In addition to the centralized procedure, Europe also has: (1) a nationalized procedure, which requires a separate application to and approval determination by each country; (2) a decentralized procedure, whereby applicants submit identical applications to several countries and receive simultaneous approval; and (3) a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants submit an application to one country for review and other countries may accept or reject the initial decision. Regardless of the approval process employed, various parties share responsibilities for the monitoring, detection, and evaluation of adverse events post-approval, including national authorities, the EMA, the EC, and the marketing authorization holder. In some regions, it is possible to receive an “accelerated” review whereby the national regulatory authority will commit to truncated review timelines for products that meet specific medical needs.

Good Manufacturing Practices

Regulatory agencies regulate and inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and product-specific regulations enforced by regulatory agencies following product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative sanctions or remedies against us, including significant financial penalties and the suspension of our manufacturing operations.

Good Clinical Practices

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate regulations and standards for designing, conducting, monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that the rights and welfare of trial participants are adequately protected (commonly referred to as current Good Clinical Practices (cGCP)). Regulatory agencies enforce cGCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites, contract research organizations (CROs), and institutional review boards. If our studies fail to comply with applicable cGCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and relevant regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. Noncompliance can also result in civil or criminal sanctions. We rely on third parties, including CROs, to carry out many of our clinical trial-related activities. Failure of such third parties to comply with cGCP can likewise result in rejection of our clinical trial data or other sanctions.









Orphan Drug Act

Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Legislation similar to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries to encourage the research, development and marketing of medicines to treat, prevent or diagnose rare diseases. In the E.U., medicinal products intended for diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or very serious diseases affecting less than five in 10,000 people receive 10-year market exclusivity, protocol assistance, and access to the centralized procedure for marketing authorization.

Regulation Pertaining to Pricing and Reimbursement

In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products depend, in part, on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third party payors, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and pricing of our products to control cost or affect utilization of our products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third party payors of newly approved health care products. The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect health care coverage and costs. Such reforms may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of our products which may have a significant impact on our business.

Within the U.S.

Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by the state Medicaid programs. For most brand name drugs, the amount of the basic rebate for each product is set by law as the greater of 23.1% (17.1% for clotting factors and certain other products) of the average manufacturer price (AMP) or the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any customer (with limited exceptions). The rebate amount must be adjusted upward if AMP increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index - Urban). This adjustment can cause the total rebate amount to exceed the minimum 23.1% (or 17.1%) basic rebate amount. The rebate amount is calculated each quarter based on our report of current AMP and best price for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The requirements for calculating AMP and best price are complex. We are required to report any revisions to AMP or best price previously reported within a certain period, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program provides for civil monetary penalties.

Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well as those with certain disabilities. Medicare Part B generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners; are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment; or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. Medicare Part B pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price (ASP) of the drugs. Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP information to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is used to calculate Medicare payment rates. The current payment rate for Medicare Part B drugs is ASP plus 6%. The payment rates for drugs in the hospital outpatient setting are subject to periodic adjustment. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services also has the statutory authority to adjust payment rates for specific drugs outside the hospital outpatient setting based on a comparison of ASP payment rates to widely available market prices or to AMP, which could decrease Medicare payment rates, but the authority has not yet been implemented. If a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties.

Medicare Part D provides coverage to enrolled Medicare patients for self-administered drugs (i.e., drugs that do not need to be injected or otherwise administered by a physician). Medicare Part D is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the U.S. government and each drug plan establishes its own Medicare Part D formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time-to-time. The prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by Medicare Part D beneficiaries when those beneficiaries reach the coverage gap in their drug benefits.









Our products are subject to discounted pricing when purchased by federal agencies via the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS). FSS participation is required for our products to be covered and reimbursed by the Veterans Administration, Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and Public Health Service (PHS). Coverage under Medicaid, the Medicare Part B program and the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program is also conditioned upon FSS participation. FSS pricing is negotiated periodically with the Department of Veterans Affairs. FSS pricing is intended not to exceed the price that we charge our most-favored non-federal customer for a product. In addition, prices for drugs purchased by the Veterans Administration, Department of Defense (including drugs purchased by military personnel and dependents through the TriCare retail pharmacy program), Coast Guard, and PHS are subject to a cap on pricing equal to 76% of the non-federal average manufacturer price (non-FAMP). An additional discount applies if non-FAMP increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index - Urban). In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties in addition to other penalties available to the government.

To maintain coverage of our products under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part B, we are required to extend discounts to certain covered entities that purchase products under the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program. Purchasers eligible for discounts include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics, hemophilia treatment centers and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS.

Outside the U.S.

Outside the U.S., the E.U. represents our major market. Within the E.U., our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. Governments may determine or influence reimbursement of products. Governments may also set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). Budgetary pressures in many E.U. countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates, and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing. If budget pressures continue, governments may implement additional cost-containment measures. For additional information related to our concentration of credit risk associated with certain international accounts receivable balances, please read the subsection below entitled “Market Risk-Credit Risk” in the “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report.

Regulation Pertaining to Sales and Marketing









Laws and regulations have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. The laws include federal “sunshine” provisions enacted in 2010 as part of the comprehensive federal health care reform legislation. The sunshine provisions apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers with products reimbursed under certain government programs and require those manufacturers to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments made to physicians and certain other healthcare practitioners or to teaching hospitals. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations. Outside the U.S., other countries have implemented requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws.

Other Regulations

Foreign Anti-Corruption

We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls.

The laws to which we are subject also include the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (Bribery Act) which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances.

NIH Guidelines

We conduct research at our U.S. facilities in compliance with the current U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH Guidelines). By local ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Research Triangle Park (RTP), North Carolina and are required to operate pursuant to certain permits.

Other Laws

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to national or international antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

We have three licensed biologics manufacturing facilities, which are located in RTP, North Carolina, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Hillerød, Denmark. The RTP site includes a 105,000 square foot manufacturing plant, which contains 6,000 (3 x 2,000) liters of bioreactor capacity, as well as a 218,000 square foot Large-Scale Manufacturing (LSM) plant which contains 90,000 (6 x 15,000) liters of bioreactor capacity. The Cambridge site is a 67,000 square foot facility that contains 10,000 (5 x 2,000) liters of bioreactor capacity. The Hillerød site is an LSM plant that contains 90,000 (6 x 15,000) liters of bioreactor capacity. Our Hillerød facility was approved by the FDA and EMA for the manufacture of commercial TYSABRI in July 2013.









We currently manufacture AVONEX, PLEGRIDY and ELOCTATE drug substance at our RTP and Cambridge facilities, ALPROLIX drug substance at our RTP facility and TYSABRI drug substance at our RTP and Hillerød facilities. Genentech is responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and GAZYVA and has sourced the manufacture of certain bulk RITUXAN and GAZYVA requirements to a third party. Acorda Therapeutics supplies FAMPYRA to us pursuant to its supply agreement with Alkermes, Inc.

We use third parties to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the final product for TECFIDERA and FUMADERM. In December 2012, we entered into an arrangement with Eisai, Inc. (Eisai) to lease a portion of their facility in RTP to manufacture oral solid dose products supplementing our outsourced small molecule manufacturing capabilities. That facility also manufactures oral solid dose products for Eisai. As part of that arrangement, Eisai also provides us with vial-filling services for biologic therapies and packaging services for oral solid dose products. We intend to continue to utilize third party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture the API and final product for our small molecule products, which we intend to supplement through our internal oral solid dose manufacturing capabilities.

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final product storage operations for our products, along with a substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated group of third party contractors. We have internal label and pack capability for clinical and commercial products at our Cambridge and Hillerød facilities. Raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products and product candidates are procured from various suppliers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. Continuity of supply of raw materials is assured using a strategy of dual sourcing where possible or by a risk-based inventory strategy. Our third party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers may be subject to routine cGMP inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions and undergo assessment and certification by our quality management group.

We believe that our manufacturing facilities provide sufficient capacity for our products. In February 2012, we finalized an agreement with Samsung Biologics that established an entity based in South Korea to develop, manufacture and market biosimilars. Under the agreement, Samsung takes a leading role in the entity, which has contracted with us for technical development services and biologics manufacturing. In December 2013, pursuant to our joint venture agreement with Samsung Biologics, we exercised our right to enter into an agreement with Samsung Bioepis to commercialize anti-TNF biosimilar product candidates in Europe.

Important factors that could adversely affect our manufacturing operations are discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of this report.

Our Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 6,850 employees worldwide.

Our Executive Officers (as ofFebruary 6, 2014)

George A. Scangos,Ph.D., 65, is our Chief Executive Officer and has served in this position since July 2010. From 1996 to July 2010, Dr. Scangos served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Exelixis, Inc., a drug discovery and development company, where he continues to serve on the board. From 1993 to 1996, Dr. Scangos served as President of Bayer Biotechnology, where he was responsible for research, business development, process development, manufacturing, engineering and quality assurance of Bayer’s biological products. Before joining Bayer in 1987, Dr. Scangos was a Professor of Biology at Johns Hopkins University for six years. Dr. Scangos served as non-executive Chairman of Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, from 2005 to July 2010 and was a director of the company from 2003 to July 2010. Dr. Scangos served as the Chair of the California Healthcare Institute in 2010 and was a member of the Board of the Global Alliance for TB Drug Developments until 2010. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Boston Museum of Science and the Biomedical Sciences Career Program, and a member of the National Board of Visitors of the University of California, Davis School of Medicine. He is currently an Adjunct Professor of Biology at Johns Hopkins. Dr. Scangos received his B.A. in Biology from Cornell University and Ph.D. in Microbiology from the University of Massachusetts, and was a Jane Coffin Childs Post-Doctoral Fellow at Yale University.

Susan H. Alexander, 57, is our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary and has served in these positions since December 2011. Prior to that, from 2006 to December 2011, Ms. Alexander served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From 2003 to January 2006, Ms. Alexander served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, a biopharmaceutical services company. From 2001 to 2003, Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA Technologies, a software company. From 1995 to 2001, Ms. Alexander served as Counsel at Cabot Corporation, a specialty chemicals and performance materials company. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine & Ambrogne. Ms. Alexander received her B.A. from Wellesley College and her J.D. from Boston University School of Law.









Spyros Artavanis-Tsakonas, Ph.D.,67,is our Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and has served in this position since May 2013.  Prior to his appointment in May 2013, Dr. Artavanis-Tsakonas served as our interim Chief Scientific Officer while on sabbatical from Harvard Medical School from March 2012 to May 2013. Dr. Artavanis-Tsakonas has been a Professor of Cell Biology at the Harvard Medical School since 1999. Prior to that, from 1999 through 2012, he was Professor, Collège de France, serving as Chair of Biology and Genetics of Development, and from 1999 to 2007, he was also the K.J. Isselbacher- P. Schwartz Professor at the Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Director of Developmental Biology and Cancer at the Harvard Medical School. Dr. Artavanis-Tsakonas is the scientific co-founder of Exelixis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug discovery and development company, Cellzome, a drug discovery and development company, and Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. Dr. Artavanis-Tsakonas obtained his M.Sc. in Chemistry from the Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich and a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology from the University of Cambridge, England. His postdoctoral research was completed at Biozentrum, University of Basel and Stanford University.

Paul J. Clancy, 52, is our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer and has served in these positions since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 and has held several senior executive positions with us, including Vice President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to that, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, a food and beverage company, serving in a range of financial and general management positions. Mr. Clancy serves on the board of directors of Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. Mr. Clancy received his B.S. in Finance from Babson College and M.B.A. from Columbia University.

Gregory F. Covino,48, is our Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer and has served in this position since April 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Covino served at Boston Scientific Corporation, a medical device company, as Vice President, Corporate Analysis and Control since March 2010, having responsibility for the company's internal audit function, and as Vice President, Finance, International from February 2008 to March 2010, having responsibility for the financial activities of the company's international division. Prior to that, Mr. Covino held several finance positions at Hubbell Incorporated, an electrical products company, including Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller from 2002 to January 2008, Interim Chief Financial Officer from 2004 to 2005, and Director, Corporate Accounting from 1999 to 2002. Mr. Covino received his B.S. in Business Administration from Bryant University.

John G. Cox, 51, is our Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology and has served in this position since June 2010. Mr. Cox joined Biogen, Inc. in 2003 and has held several senior executive positions with us, including Senior Vice President of Technical Operations, Senior Vice President of Global Manufacturing, and Vice President of Manufacturing and General Manager of Biogen Idec’s operations in RTP. Prior to that, Mr. Cox held a number of senior operational roles at Diosynth Inc., a life sciences manufacturing and services company, where he worked in technology transfer, validation and purification. Prior to that, Mr. Cox focused on the same areas at Wyeth Corporation, a life sciences company, from 1993 to 2000. Mr. Cox serves on the board of directors of Repligen Corporation, a life sciences company. Mr. Cox received his B.S. in Biology from Arizona State University, M.B.A. from the University of Michigan and M.S. in Cell Biology from California State University.

Kenneth Di Pietro, 55, is our Executive Vice President, Human Resources and has served in this position since January 2012. Mr. Di Pietro joined Biogen Idec from Lenovo Group, a technology company, where he served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from 2005 to June 2011. From 2003 to 2005, he served as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources at Microsoft Corporation, a technology company. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Di Pietro worked as Vice President, Human Resources at Dell Inc., a technology company. Prior to that, he spent 17 years at PepsiCo, a food and beverage company, serving in a range of human resource and general management positions. Mr. DiPietro serves on the board of directors of InVivo Therapeutics Corporation, a medical device company. Mr. Di Pietro received his B.S. in Industrial and Labor Relations from Cornell University.

Steven H. Holtzman, 59, is our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and has served in this position since January 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Holtzman was a founder of Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug discovery and development company, where he served as Chair of the Board of Directors from company inception in 2001 to November 2012, Executive Chair of the Board of Directors in 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer from 2001 to December 2009. From 1994 to 2001, Mr. Holtzman was Chief Business Officer at Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. From 1986 to 1994, he was a founder, member of the Board of Directors and Executive Vice President of DNX Corporation, a biotechnology company. From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Holtzman served as presidential appointee to the national Bioethics Advisory Commission. Mr. Holtzman received his B.A. from Michigan State University and B.Phil. graduate degree from Oxford University which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar.









Tony Kingsley, 50, is our Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations and has served in this position since November 2011. From January 2010 to November 2011, Mr. Kingsley served as our Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial Operations. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Gynecological Surgical Products business at Hologic, Inc., a provider of diagnostic and surgical products, from October 2007 to November 2009, and as Division President, Diagnostic Products at Cytyc Corp., a provider of diagnostic and medical device products, from July 2006 to October 2007. In those roles, Mr. Kingsley ran commercial, manufacturing and research and development functions. From 1991 to 2006, he was a Partner at McKinsey & Company focusing on the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Mr. Kingsley received his B.A. in Government from Dartmouth College and M.B.A. from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.

Alfred W. Sandrock, Jr., M.D., Ph.D.,56,is our Group Senior Vice President, Chief Medical Officer and has served in this position since May 2013. From February 2012 to April 2013, Dr. Sandrock served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Medical Officer. Prior to that, Dr. Sandrock held several senior executive positions since joining us in 1998, including Senior Vice President of Development Sciences, Senior Vice President of Neurology Research and Development and Vice President of Clinical Development, Neurology. Dr. Sandrock received his B.A. in Human Biology from Stanford University, an M.D. from Harvard Medical School, and a Ph.D. in Neurobiology from Harvard University. He completed an internship in Medicine, a residency and chief residency in Neurology, and a Clinical Fellowship in Neuromuscular Disease and Clinical Neurophysiology (electromyography) at Massachusetts General Hospital.

Douglas E. Williams, Ph.D.











