Item 1.Business

Overview



Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company that creates new
    standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical
    needs. Our business strategy is focused on discovering and
    developingfirst-in-classorbest-in-classproducts that we can deliver to specialty markets globally.
    Patients worldwide benefit from Biogen Idec’s significant
    products that address medical needs in the areas of neurology,
    oncology and immunology.



Marketed
    Products



We have four therapeutic products on the market, which are
    summarized in the table below.



Revenues to Biogen Idec (in millions)ProductSummary of Approved Indications200920082007AVONEX(interferon beta-1a)Multiple sclerosis$2,322.9$2,202.6$1,867.8RITUXAN(rituximab)Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomaRheumatoid arthritis$1,094.9$1,128.2$926.1TYSABRI(natalizumab)Multiple sclerosisCrohn’s disease$776.0$588.6$229.9FUMADERM(dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts)Psoriasis$49.6$43.4$21.5





Additional financial information about our product revenues,
    other revenues and geographic areas in which we operate is set
    forth in our Consolidated Financial Statements and in
    Note 20,Segment Informationto our Consolidated
    Financial Statements.



Research
    and Development



We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business development opportunities. We
    intend to focus our research and development efforts on finding
    novel therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need within
    our core and emergent focus areas of neurology, oncology,
    immunology, cardiopulmonary and hemophilia.



In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our research and development costs
    totaled $1,283.1 million, $1,072.1 million and
    $925.2 million, respectively. We incurred charges
    associated with acquired in-process research and development of
    $25.0 million and $84.2 million in 2008 and 2007
    respectively. No acquired in-process research and development
    charges were incurred in 2009.



CEO
    Retirement



On January 4, 2010, we announced that James C. Mullen will
    retire as our President and Chief Executive Officer on
    June 8, 2010, and will retire from our Board of Directors
    upon the completion of his current term as a director at our
    2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. We entered into a
    transition agreement with Mr. Mullen on January 4,
    2010, which is filed as an exhibit to this report. Under the
    transition agreement, we agreed with Mr. Mullen (1) to
    continue to pay Mr. Mullen’s current base salary of
    $1.2 million through June 8, 2010, (2) to pay
    Mr. Mullen a bonus for 2009 calculated as 125% of his 2009
    base salary of $1.2 million multiplied by our corporate
    multiplier for 2009 determined based on our achievement of goals
    established at the beginning of 2009, (3) to pay
    Mr. Mullen a bonus for 2010 calculated as 125% of his
    prorated base salary, (4) to vest all of
    Mr. Mullen’s unvested equity awards on the date of his
    retirement, (5) to allow Mr. Mullen to exercise his
    vested stock options until June 8, 2013 or their
    expiration, whichever is earlier, and (6) that if we make a
    public announcement of a transaction that constitutes a change
    in control prior to June 8, 2010, Mr. Mullen will be
    entitled to a severance payment in the





amount of three times the sum of his annual base salary and
    target bonus and a related tax payment provided under his
    employment agreement upon consummation of the transaction. We
    have initiated a search for Mr. Mullen’s successor.



Available
    Information



We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a
    Delaware corporation in 1997. Our principal executive offices
    are located at 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts
    02142 and our telephone number is(617) 679-2000.Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
    website our Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We
    include our website address in this report only as an inactive
    textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to
    our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    into this filing.

Marketed
    Products



Our marketed products address the following diseases: multiple
    sclerosis (MS); non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL); rheumatoid
    arthritis (RA); Crohn’s disease (CD); and psoriasis. As
    part of our ongoing development efforts, we are also seeking to
    expand our marketed products into other diseases, such as
    Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) associated
    vasculitis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and ulcerative
    colitis. The approved indications for, and ongoing development
    of, our marketed products are summarized in the table below.
    Drug development involves a high degree of risk, and the status,
    timing and scope of our clinical trials, drug approvals and
    applications for approval are subject to change. Important
    factors that could adversely affect our drug development efforts
    are discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of this
    report.



Approved orDevelopment orProductTargeted IndicationsStatusMarketing CollaboratorsAVONEXRelapsing MSApproved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwideNoneUlcerative colitisPhase 2NoneRITUXAN(1)NHLApproved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwideRoche Group and its sublicenseesRAApproved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwideRoche Group and its sublicenseesCLLIn U.S. registrationRoche Group and its sublicenseesANCA-associated vasculitisPhase 2/3Roche Group (Our rights are limited to U.S.)TYSABRI(2)Relapsing MSApproved in U.S. and numerous other countries worldwideElan PharmaceuticalsCDApproved in U.S.Elan PharmaceuticalsFUMADERMSevere psoriasisApproved in GermanyNone









(1)RITUXAN is indicated for the treatment of (1)(a) relapsed or
    refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL
    as a single agent, (b) previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide,
    vincristine and prednisone (CVP) chemotherapy,
    (c) non-progressing (including stable disease), low-grade,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single agent, after first-line
    CVP chemotherapy, and (d) previously untreated diffuse
    large B-cell, CD20-positive NHL in combination with
    cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, Oncovin and prednisone or other
    anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens and
    (2) moderately- to severely-active RA, in combination with
    methotrexate, in adult patients who have inadequate response to
    one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist therapies.(2)TYSABRI is indicated for the treatment of (1) relapsing MS
    as a monotherapy and (2) moderately to severely active CD
    with evidence of inflammation with an inadequate response to or
    inability to tolerate conventional CD therapies and TNF
    inhibitors.







AVONEX



AVONEX is one of the leading therapeutic products for relapsing
    forms of MS with over 135,000 patients currently using
    AVONEX. MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the
    body loses the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells,
    leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some
    cases, death. Patients with active relapsing MS experience an
    uneven pattern of disease progression characterized by periods
    of stability that are interrupted byflare-upsof
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of the interferon beta
    protein produced in the body in response to viral infection.
    AVONEX has been shown in clinical trials in relapsing MS both to
    slow the accumulation of disability and to reduce the frequency
    offlare-ups.



    Developments



•In September 2009, we were issued a U.S. patent for the use
    of beta interferon for immunomodulation or treating a viral
    condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors. This patent, which
    expires in September 2026, covers the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis with AVONEX.•In April 2009, we announced data results from an open label,
    ten-year extension study of MS patients, known as CHAMPIONS,
    indicating that early treatment with AVONEX reduces relapse
    rates and may reduce disease progression for up to ten years.



RITUXAN



RITUXAN is one of the most prescribed oncology therapeutics in
    the world with over 2.1 million patient exposures across
    all indications. RITUXAN is a monoclonal antibody that is used
    worldwide to treat NHL and RA. NHL is a cancer that affects
    lymphocytes, which are a type of white blood cell that help to
    fight infection. RA is a chronic disease that occurs when the
    immune system mistakenly attacks the body’s joints,
    resulting in inflammation, pain and joint damage.



We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, Inc., on the development and commercialization
    of RITUXAN. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.



    Developments





•In November 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (FDA) issued a complete response on applications for RITUXAN
    plus fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of
    people with CLL, a cancer that affects white blood cells. The
    FDA has not requested any new data to complete its review of
    these applications. We and Genentech have engaged in final label
    discussions with the FDA and expect to finalize these
    discussions during the first quarter of 2010.



•In October 2009, we announced that the FDA issued a complete
    response indicating that they did not believe that approval
    could be supported for RITUXAN in RA patients with an inadequate
    response to non-biological disease modifying agents.



•In October 2009, data from a Phase 2/3 clinical trial of RITUXAN
    in ANCA-associated vasculitis, known as RAVE, was presented at
    the American College of Rheumatology. The trial met its primary
    endpoint of noninferiority, showing that RITUXAN is as effective
    as cyclophosphamide in treatingANCA-associatedvasculitis, a type of inflammation of the blood vessels.



•In September 2009, we announced that a Phase 3 study showed that
    RITUXAN provided significant clinical benefit to patients with
    low-grade follicular lymphoma who were treated with RITUXAN as
    maintenance therapy after primary treatment with RITUXAN and
    chemotherapy.



•In March 2009, we announced that a Phase 3 study of RITUXAN in
    lupus nephritis did not meet its primary endpoint.







TYSABRI



We believe that TYSABRI is one of the most efficacious
    treatments for MS. TYSABRI is a monoclonal antibody
    (natalizumab) that was initially approved by the FDA in November
    2004 to treat relapsing MS. In February 2005, in consultation
    with the FDA, we and our collaborator Elan Corporation plc
    (Elan) voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial
    distribution of TYSABRI based on reports of cases of progressive
    multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with
    TYSABRI in clinical studies. PML is an opportunistic viral
    infection of the brain that often leads to death or severe
    disability. In July 2006, TYSABRI was reintroduced in the U.S.,
    and introduced in the European Union, as a monotherapy treatment
    for relapsing MS. TYSABRI is also approved in the U.S. to
    treat CD, which is an inflammatory disease of the intestines.



TYSABRI is marketed under risk management or minimization plans
    as agreed to with local regulatory authorities. In the U.S.,
    TYSABRI was reintroduced with a risk minimization action plan
    known as the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a rigorous system
    intended to educate physicians and patients about the risks
    involved and to assure appropriate use of the product.



We collaborate with Elan on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.



    Developments



•In November 2009, we revised the U.S. prescribing
    information for TYSABRI to reflect that the risk of developing
    PML increases with longer treatment duration, and for patients
    treated for 24 to 36 months is generally similar to the
    rates seen in clinical trials. The revised label also reflects
    that there is limited experience beyond three years of treatment.•In the fourth quarter 2009, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
    began a review of TYSABRI to determine whether any additional
    measures were necessary to ensure the safe use of TYSABRI. In
    January 2010, the EMA recommended updating the TYSABRI label in
    the E.U. to reflect that the risk of PML increases after two
    years of therapy. The EMA also recommended that patients have
    regular MRI scans and be re-informed of the risk of PML after
    two years on therapy.



FUMADERM



FUMADERM is the most prescribed oral systemic treatment for
    severe psoriasis in Germany. Psoriasis is a skin disease in
    which cells build up on the skin surface and form scales and red
    patches.

Other
    Sources of Revenue



We receive royalty revenues on sales by our licensees of other
    products covered under patents that we own. We have also sold or
    exclusively licensed to third parties rights to certain products
    previously included within our product line. Royalty or supply
    agreement revenues received based upon those products are
    recorded as corporate partner revenue.



Our royalty revenues are dependent upon our licensees’
    sales of licensed products which could vary significantly due to
    competition, manufacturing difficulties and other factors that
    are outside our control. In addition, the expiration or
    invalidation of any underlying patents could reduce or eliminate
    the royalty revenues derived from such patents. Royalties on
    sales of ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company (TMC)
    represent our most significant source of other revenue. TMC
    markets ANGIOMAX primarily in the U.S. and the European
    Union for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing
    percutaneous coronary intervention. Please read the subsection
    entitled “Other Revenue — Royalty Revenues”
    in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of
    this report for a description of this royalty arrangement and
    factors that could adversely effect this portion of our revenues.



In 2009, 2008 and 2007, our royalty revenues totaled
    $124.4 million, $116.2 million and
    $102.1 million, respectively, and our corporate partner
    revenues totaled $5.1 million, $13.4 million and
    $6.6 million, respectively. Additional financial
    information about our product revenues, other revenues and
    geographic areas in which we operate is set forth in our
    Consolidated Financial Statements and in Note 20,Segment Informationto our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.





Registrational
    Product Candidates



In addition to the ongoing development of our marketed products,
    we currently have a number of product candidates in or near
    registrational stage development. Drug development involves a
    high degree of risk, and the status, timing and scope of our
    clinical trials, drug approvals and applications for approval
    are subject to change. Important factors that could adversely
    affect our drug development efforts are discussed in the
    “Risk Factors” section of this report.



BG-12



BG-12 is an oral compound that is being tested in relapsing MS.
    During 2009, we completed patient enrollment in two Phase 3
    trials of BG-12 in relapsing MS, known as DEFINE and CONFIRM,
    with the CONFIRM trial including a glatiramer acetate (COPAXONE)
    reference comparator arm. Both studies have a two year treatment
    period with each study involving approximately 1,200 to
    1,500 patients worldwide. The FDA has granted BG-12 fast
    track status, which may result in an expedited review.



Daclizumab



Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in
    relapsing MS. A Phase 2b trial of daclizumab in MS, known as
    SELECT, is currently underway. The SELECT trial has a one year
    treatment period and is expected to involve approximately
    600 patients worldwide. The SELECT trial is the first of
    two registrational trials required by regulatory authorities. We
    expect to begin patient enrollment in a Phase 3 trial of
    daclizumab in relapsing MS, known as DECIDE, during the first
    half of 2010. The DECIDE trial has a two year treatment period
    and is expected to involve approximately 1,400 patients
    worldwide. The DECIDE trial is the second registrational trial
    required by regulatory authorities.



We collaborate with Facet Biotech Corporation (Facet) on the
    development and commercialization of daclizumab. In January
    2010, we agreed with our collaborator, Facet, to assume the
    manufacture of daclizumab and began the process of transferring
    from Facet the manufacturing technology necessary for us to
    manufacture daclizumab. Any delay in completing or implementing
    such transfer could adversely affect the timing of our
    daclizumab trials. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description
    of this collaboration.



Fampridine



Fampridine is an oral compound that is being developed as a
    treatment to improve walking ability in people with MS. In
    December 2009, we filed for approval of fampridine in the
    European Union and Canada for this indication. Fampridine was
    approved in the U.S. on January 22, 2010 under the trade name
    AMPYRA (dalfampridine). AMPYRA is indicated to improve walking
    in patients with MS. This was demonstrated by an increase in
    walking speed. Acorda is developing and marketing AMPYRA in the
    U.S. We collaborate with Acorda on the development and
    commercialization of fampridine in markets outside the U.S.
    Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.



GA101



GA101 is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in CLL.
    During the second half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a
    Phase 3 trial of GA101 in combination with chlorambucil as
    compared to rituximab plus chlorambucil or chlorambucil alone in
    patients with previously untreated CLL. The study is designed to
    have a treatment period of approximately 6 months, with a
    minimum five yearfollow-upperiod, and involve approximately 800 patients worldwide.



We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, on the development and commercialization of
    GA101. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.





Humanized
    Anti-CD20 MAb (ocrelizumab)



Ocrelizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in RA.
    We and Genentech initiated four Phase 3 trials evaluating
    ocrelizumab in RA, known as SCRIPT, FEATURE, STAGE and FILM, and
    a Phase 2 trial known as CINEMA.



The SCRIPT study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
    ocrelizumab, compared with placebo, in patients with active RA
    who have an inadequate response to at least one anti-TNF-alpha
    therapy. This study has a one year treatment period and involves
    approximately 800 patients worldwide.



In January 2010, we and Genentech determined that the FEATURE
    study, which evaluated a single infusion of ocrelizumab versus
    placebo (with dual infusions as an active control) in
    seropositive RA patients with an inadequate response to prior
    therapies, did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint as a
    single infusion.



In December 2009, we and Genentech announced that STAGE, which
    evaluated ocrelizumab in combination with methotrexate, met its
    primary endpoint of improving signs and symptoms (as measured by
    criteria, known as the ACR 20 response, established by the
    American College of Rheumatology) in RA patients who had an
    inadequate response to methotrexate at both 24 and 48 weeks.



In October 2009, a safety review of ocrelizumab data in RA and
    lupus nephritis (LN) clinical trials was performed revealing an
    apparent imbalance in opportunistic infections among
    ocrelizumab-treated RA and LN patients in these clinical trials.
    Based upon this review, redosing was stopped in FILM, which
    evaluated ocrelizumab given in combination with methotrexate to
    methotrexate naïve RA patients. Redosing was also stopped
    in the Asia Pacific region for the SCRIPT, FEATURE and STAGE
    studies.



The CINEMA study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
    ocrelizumab in combination with methotrexate compared with
    infliximab plus methotrexate in patients with active RA who have
    an inadequate response to certain anti-TNF-alpha therapies. This
    study has a treatment period of approximately 6 months and
    involves approximately 300 patients.



We collaborate with the Roche Group, through its wholly-owned
    member Genentech, on the development and commercialization of
    ocrelizumab. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto
    our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this
    collaboration.



Lixivaptan



Lixivaptan is an oral compound that is being tested in
    hyponatremia, an electrolyte disorder that contributes to
    negative patient outcomes in congestive heart failure and many
    other chronic diseases. Three Phase 3 trials of lixivaptan in
    hyponatremia are currently underway. These studies have a
    60 day or six month treatment period and involve
    approximately 100 to 650 patients worldwide.



We collaborate with Cardiokine Biopharma LLC on the development
    and commercialization of lixivaptan. Please read Note 17,Collaborationsto our Consolidated Financial Statements
    for a description of this collaboration.



Long-Acting
    rFactor IX



Long-acting recombinant Factor IX (Factor IX) is a
    proprietary long-acting Factor IX product that is being tested
    in hemophilia B, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    In January 2010, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 2b/3
    trial of Factor IX in hemophilia B, known asB-LONG.This
    study has a 14 month treatment period and will involve
    approximately 75 patients. Factor IX has received orphan
    drug designation for the treatment of hemophilia B from both the
    FDA and EMA.



We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Biovitrum) on
    the development and commercialization of Factor IX. Please read
    Note 17,Collaborationsto our Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a description of this collaboration.





PEGylated
    interferon beta-1a



PEGylated interferon beta-1a is designed to prolong the effects
    and reduce the dosing frequency of interferon beta-1a. During
    the first half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 3
    trial of PEGylated interferon beta-1a in relapsing MS, known as
    ADVANCE. The study is designed to have a two year treatment
    period and involve approximately 1,200 patients worldwide.
    The FDA has granted PEGylated interferon beta-1a fast track
    status, which may result in an expedited review.



Former
    Registrational Programs



Based upon the October 2009 safety review of ocrelizumab data in
    RA and LN clinical trials described above, we decided to close
    the ocrelizumab BELONG study in LN. The SCRIPT study of
    ocrelizumab in RA described above remains ongoing. We plan to
    work with regulators to determine the next step for this program.



In October 2009, after a strategic review of our Anti-CD80 MAb
    (galiximab) and Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab) programs, we decided
    to stop recruitment in the lumiliximab LUCID trial in CLL and
    end the galiximab TARGET trial in NHL. Neither decision was a
    consequence of any safety concerns. We are evaluating our
    options for these programs.



In December 2009, we determined to close our ADENTRI clinical
    trial for the treatment of acute decompensated heart failure
    with renal insufficiency after reviewing preliminary results
    from the trial.

Other
    Research and Development Programs



We intend to continue to commit significant resources to
    research and development opportunities, focusing on novel
    therapeutics in areas of high unmet medical need. Highlighted
    below are several of our development programs that currently are
    not in registrational trials. Drug development involves a high
    degree of risk, and the status, timing and scope of our
    development programs are subject to change. Important factors
    that could adversely affect our drug development efforts are
    discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of this report.



Development orTherapeutic AreaProduct CandidateTargeted IndicationsStatusMarketing CollaboratorsNeurologyBIIB014Parkinson’s disease — early and late stagePhase 2OcrelizumabMSPhase 2Roche GroupNeublastinNeuropathic painPhase 1LINGOMSPhase 1BARTAlzheimer’s DiseasePreclinicalNeurimmune SubOne AGOncologyHsp90 Inhibitor (CNF2024)Solid tumors — gastrointestinal stromal tumorsPhase 2GA101NHLPhase 2Roche Group (Our rights are limited to U.S.)Anti-CD80 MAb (galiximab)NHLPhase 2Anti-CD23 MAb (lumiliximab)CLLPhase 2Anti-IGF-1R (BIIB022)Solid tumors — liver cancerPhase 2Volociximab (M200)Non-small cell lung cancerPhase 1Facet Biotech CorporationAnti-CRIPTOSolid tumorsPhase 1RAF Inhibitor (BIIB024)Solid tumorsPreclinicalAnti-Fn14Solid tumorsPreclinicalImmunologyBG-12RAPhase 2Anti-TWEAKRAPhase 1Anti-CD40L FabSystemic lupus erythematosusPreclinicalUCB, S.A.Anti-FcRnPemphigusPreclinicalCardiopulmonaryLixivaptanCongestive heart failurePhase 2Cardiokine Biopharma LLCHemophiliaLong-acting rFactor VIIIHemophilia APhase 1Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB







Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights



Patents are important to developing and protecting our
    competitive position. We regularly seek patent protection in the
    U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for
    inventions originating from our research and development
    efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and
    patent applications, generally, in return for the payment of
    royalties to the patent owner. U.S. patents, as well as
    most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years
    from the date the earliest (priority) application was filed;
    however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed
    before June 8, 1995 may be effective until
    17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the
    20 year date. In some cases, the patent term may be
    extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA
    regulatory review or because of U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. The
    duration of foreign patents varies similarly, in accordance with
    local law.



We also rely upon unpatented confidential information to remain
    competitive. We protect such information principally through
    confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these
    agreements also provide, in compliance with relevant law, that
    inventions and other intellectual property conceived by such
    employees during their employment shall be our exclusive
    property.



Our trademarks, including RITUXAN and AVONEX, are important to
    us and are generally covered by trademark applications or
    registrations in the USPTO and the patent offices of other
    countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties,
    such as the mark TYSABRI which we license from Elan. Trademark
    protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in
    some countries as long as the mark is used and in other
    countries as long as the mark is registered. Trademark
    registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.



Our patent position and proprietary rights are subject to
    certain risks and uncertainties. Please read the “Risk
    Factors” section of this report for information about
    certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent
    position and proprietary rights.



Additional information about the patents and other proprietary
    rights covering our marketed products is set forth below.



AVONEX
    and Beta Interferon



Our U.S. patent No. 7,588,755, granted in September
    2009, claims the use of beta interferon for immunomodulation or
    treating a viral condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors.
    This patent, which expires in September 2026, covers the
    treatment of MS with AVONEX.



We have non-exclusive rights under certain third-party patents
    and patent applications to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX,
    including patents owned by the Japanese Foundation for Cancer
    Research which expire in 2011 and 2013 in the U.S., and a
    European patent owned by Rentschler Biotechnologie GmbH and
    which expires in 2012. Additionally, third parties own pending
    U.S. patent applications related to recombinant
    interferon-beta. These applications, which fall outside of the
    GATT amendments to the U.S. patent statute, are not
    published by the USPTO and, if they mature into granted patents,
    may be entitled to a term of seventeen years from the grant
    date. There is at least one pending interference proceeding in
    the USPTO involving such third party applications, and
    additional interferences could be declared in the future. We are
    unable to predict which, if any, such applications will mature
    into patents with claims relevant to our AVONEX product.



RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies



We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and
    numerous corresponding foreign counterparts, directed to
    anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. The principal
    patents with claims to RITUXAN or its uses expire in the
    U.S. between 2015 and 2018 and in the rest of the world in
    2013, subject to any available patent term extensions. In
    addition, we and our collaborator, Genentech, have filed
    numerous patent applications directed to anti-CD20 antibodies
    and their uses to treat various diseases. These pending patent
    applications have the potential of issuing as patents in the
    U.S. and in the rest of world with claims to anti-CD20
    antibody molecules for periods beyond that stated above for
    RITUXAN. In 2008, a European patent of ours claiming the
    treatment with





anti-CD20 antibodies of certain auto-immune indications,
    including rheumatoid arthritis, was revoked by the European
    Patent Office. We are appealing that decision.



Genentech, our collaborator on RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive
    license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and
    foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that
    relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These
    patents expire between 2007 and 2014. Genentech has granted us a
    non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
    RITUXAN under these patents and patent applications. We, along
    with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in
    our co-promotion territory on sales of RITUXAN.



TYSABRI



We and our collaborator, Elan, have patents and patent
    applications covering TYSABRI in the U.S. and other
    countries. These patents and patent applications cover TYSABRI
    and related manufacturing methods, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the U.S., the principal patents
    covering the product and use of the product to treat MS
    generally expire between 2015 and 2020. Additional
    U.S. patents and applications covering other indications,
    including treatment of irritable bowel disease, and methods of
    manufacturing generally expire between 2012 and 2020. In the
    rest of world, patents on the product and methods of
    manufacturing the product generally expire between 2015 and
    2020, subject to any supplemental protection (i.e., patent term
    extension) certificates that may be obtained. In the rest of
    world, patents and patent applications covering methods of
    treatment using TYSABRI generally expire between 2012 and 2020.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution



We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist
    physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We
    use customary pharmaceutical company practices to market our
    products and to educate physicians, such as sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, selling
    initiatives, public relations and other methods. We provide
    customer service and other related programs for our products,
    such as disease and product-specific websites, insurance
    research services and order, delivery and fulfillment services.
    We have also established programs in the U.S. which provide
    qualified uninsured or underinsured patients with marketed
    products at no or reduced charge. Additional information about
    our sales, marketing and distribution efforts for our marketed
    products is set forth below.



AVONEX



We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the rest
    of world in the face of increased competition. The principal
    markets for AVONEX are the U.S., Germany, France, and Italy. In
    the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and most
    of the major countries of the European Union, we market and sell
    AVONEX through our own sales forces and marketing groups and
    distribute AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of
    pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or
    shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX
    to distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.



RITUXAN



In the U.S., we contribute a sales force and other resources to
    the marketing of RITUXAN, which is managed primarily by the
    Roche Group through its wholly-owned member and our collaborator
    Genentech. RITUXAN is generally sold to wholesalers, specialty
    distributors and directly to hospital pharmacies. Marketing
    efforts are focused on hematologists, medical oncologists and
    rheumatologists in private practice, at community hospitals and
    at major medical centers in the U.S. The Roche Group
    provides marketing support services for RITUXAN, including
    customer service, order entry, shipping, billing, insurance
    verification assistance, managed care sales support, medical
    information and sales training.



In the rest of world, the Roche Group and its sublicensees
    market and sell RITUXAN without our participation.





TYSABRI



The principal markets for TYSABRI are the U.S., Germany, France
    and Italy.



In the U.S., we are principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for MS and Elan is principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for CD. We and Elan use our respective sales forces and
    marketing groups for these activities. Elan is responsible for
    TYSABRI distribution in the U.S. and uses a third party
    distributor to ship TYSABRI directly to customers.



In the rest of world, we are responsible for TYSABRI marketing
    and distribution and we use a combination of our own sales force
    and marketing group and third party service providers.



FUMADERM



We have been marketing and distributing FUMADERM directly in
    Germany since February 2009 and previously used a third party
    service provider.

Competition



Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources, including
    specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical
    companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop
    products similar to those we are developing or already market
    and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials
    and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical
    products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing, research and development and human
    resources than we do.



We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing patent and other proprietary positions through
    research and development. The achievement of a leadership
    position also depends largely upon our ability to identify and
    exploit commercially the products resulting from research and
    the availability of adequate financial resources to fund
    facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining
    competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining
    qualified scientists and technicians. We believe that we have
    been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific
    personnel.



Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition,
    early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may
    have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and
    market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can
    develop products, complete the testing and approval process and
    supply commercial quantities of products will have an important
    impact on our competitive position.



We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the
    emergence of biosimilars. Most of our marketed products,
    including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are licensed under the
    Public Health Service Act as biological products. Unlike small
    molecule drugs, which are subject to the generic drug provisions
    (Hatch-Waxman Act) of the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
    Act, currently there is no process in the U.S. for the
    submission or approval of biological products based upon
    abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another
    approved product. There is public dialogue at the FDA and in the
    Congress, however, regarding the scientific and statutory basis
    upon which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, could be approved and marketed in the U.S. We
    cannot be certain when, or if, Congress will create a statutory
    pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In the European Union,
    the EMA has issued guidelines for approving of biological
    products through an abbreviated pathway, and several biosimilars
    have been approved. If a biosimilar version of one of our
    products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that
    product.



Additional information about the competition that our marketed
    products face is set forth below.





AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI



AVONEX and TYSABRI both compete primarily with three other
    products:



•BETASERON (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Bayer
    HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. pharmaceuticals
    affiliate of Bayer Schering Pharma AG, in the U.S. and is
    marketed under the name BETAFERON by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in
    the European Union. BETASERON and BETAFERON together generated
    worldwide revenues of approximately $1.7 billion in 2008.
    EXTAVIA, a branded version of interferon beta-1b marketed by
    Novartis AG, is sold in the European Union and was launched in
    the U.S. in October 2009.•COPAXONE (glatiramer acetate), which is marketed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in the U.S. and copromoted
    by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and Sanofi-Aventis in Europe.
    COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.3 billion in 2008.•REBIF (interferon-beta-1a), which is co-promoted by EMD Serono,
    a subsidiary of Merck Serono, and Pfizer Inc. in the
    U.S. and is marketed by Merck Serono in the European Union.
    REBIF generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.0 billion in 2008.



Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    products to treat MS that may in the future compete with AVONEX
    and TYSABRI. For example, an oral formulation of cladribine
    (developed by Merck Serono) was filed with the EMA and is the
    subject of discussions with the FDA regarding a refiling for
    approval as therapy for MS and FTY720 (fingolimod) (developed by
    Novartis AG) has been filed with the EMA and FDA for approval as
    an oral therapy for MS. In addition, alemtuzumab (developed by
    Genzyme Corporation) and laquinimod (developed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries) are in late-stage development for the
    treatment of MS.



AVONEX and TYSABRI also face competition from off-label uses of
    drugs approved for other indications.



RITUXAN
    IN ONCOLOGY



RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the oncology market, including:



•CAMPATH (marketed by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals), which is
    indicated for B-cell CLL (an unapproved and unpromoted use of
    RITUXAN).•TREANDA (marketed by Cephalon) and ARZERRA (marketed by GenMab
    in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline), which is indicated for
    refractory CLL patients to both alemtuzumab and fludarabine (an
    unapproved and unpromoted use of RITUXAN).



We are also aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development
    that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with
    RITUXAN in the oncology market.



RITUXAN
    IN RA



RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the RA market, including:



•traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen.•TNF inhibitors, such as REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI
    (golimumab) (marketed by Johnson & Johnson), HUMIRA
    (adalimumab) (marketed by Abbott Laboratories), ENBREL
    (etanercept) (marketed by Amgen, Inc. and Pfizer) and CIMZIA
    (certolizumab pegol) (marketed by UCB, S.A.).•ORENCIA (abatacept) (marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company).•ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) (marketed by the Roche Group).



We are also aware of other products in development that, if
    successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN
    in the RA market.





FUMADERM



FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in
    the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics
    such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.

Regulatory



Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.



Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals





The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments
    and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. On
    occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or
    additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or expense.
    Even after initial FDA approval or approvals from other
    regulatory agencies have been obtained, further clinical trials
    may be required to provide additional data on safety and
    effectiveness. Additional trials are required to gain clearance
    for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other
    than those initially approved. Furthermore, the FDA and other
    regulatory agencies require companies to disclose clinical trial
    results. Failure to disclose such results within applicable time
    periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary
    penalties.







If the FDA or other regulatory agency approves a product or new
    indication, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the agency may withdraw its approval. In
    addition, the FDA and EMA can impose financial penalties for
    failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments,
    including RiskMAPs and REMS.



Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with FDA safety reporting
    requirements may result in civil or criminal penalties. Side
    effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical
    trials can delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. The FDA
    may conduct post-marketing safety surveillance and may require
    additional post-approval studies or clinical trials. These
    requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing
    approval of our products or require us to make significant
    expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. In addition,
    adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can
    result in changes to the product’s labeling, additional
    limitations being placed on the product’s use and,
    potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from the
    market.



If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such
    as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing
    changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain
    ingredients or components, regulatory authorities, including the
    FDA and EMA, will need to review and approve such changes in
    advance.



In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both before and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However,
    physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that
    are not described in the drug’s labeling. Such off-label
    uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician’s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior
    of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the FDA
    regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA.



Good
    Manufacturing Practices



The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from
    regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA following
    product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment,
    facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a
    product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined
    that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions or remedies against us, including the suspension of
    our manufacturing operations.



Good
    Clinical Practices



The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate
    regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current Good
    Clinical Practices (cGCP), for designing, conducting,
    monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical
    trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that
    the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA, the
    EMA and other regulatory agencies enforce cGCP through periodic
    inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial
    sites. If our study sites fail to comply with applicable cGCP,
    the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed
    unreliable and relevant regulatory agencies may require us to
    perform additional clinical trials before approving our
    marketing applications.





Orphan
    Drug Act



Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan
    drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease
    or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition
    that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If
    a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently
    receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it
    has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan
    exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other
    applications to market the same drug for the same indication for
    a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in
    certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product
    is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product.
    Legislation similar to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been
    enacted in other countries, including within the European Union.



Regulation Pertaining
    to Sales, Marketing and Product Pricing



In the U.S., the federal government regularly considers
    reforming health care coverage and costs. For example, reforms
    to Medicare have reduced the reimbursement rates for many of our
    products. Effective January 1, 2005, Medicare pays
    physicians and suppliers that furnish our products under a
    payment methodology using average sales price (ASP) information.
    Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP
    information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on
    a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is
    used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are set at ASP
    plus 6 percent and updated quarterly. There is a mechanism
    for comparison of such payment rates to widely available market
    prices, which could cause further decreases in Medicare payment
    rates, although this mechanism has yet to be utilized. Effective
    January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use the same payment
    methodology to determine Medicare rates paid for products
    furnished by hospital outpatient departments. As of
    January 1, 2010, the reimbursement rate in the hospital
    outpatient setting is ASP plus 4 percent. If a manufacturer
    is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of
    ASP, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to
    $10,000 for each misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.



Another payment reform is the addition of an expanded
    prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries known
    as Medicare Part D. This is a voluntary benefit that is
    provided through private plans under contractual arrangements
    with the federal government. Like pharmaceutical coverage
    through private health insurance, Part D plans establish
    formularies that govern the drugs and biologicals that will be
    offered and the out- of-pocket obligations for such products. In
    addition, plans negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and
    pass on some of those savings to Medicare beneficiaries.



In the U.S., Congress has considered legislation to reform the
    healthcare system that likely would have an adverse impact on
    our revenues, by, among other things, increasing the current
    Medicaid rebate, adding a subsidy for certainout-of-pocketpatient costs under Medicare Part D, and assessing a
    pharmaceutical manufacturer fee. In addition, the passage in the
    U.S. of legislation defining a pathway for biosimilar
    products likely would have an adverse impact on our revenues.



Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status of newly approved health care products by
    third party payors.



We also participate in the Medicaid rebate program. Under the
    Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of
    product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for
    each product is set by law as the larger of 15.1% of average
    manufacturer price (AMP) or the difference between AMP and the
    best price available from us to any commercial or
    non-governmental customer. The rebate amount must be adjusted
    upward where the AMP for a product’s first full quarter of
    sales, when adjusted for increases in the Consumer Price
    Index — Urban exceeds the AMP for the current quarter
    with the upward adjustment equal to the excess amount. The
    rebate amount is required to be recomputed each quarter based on
    our report of current AMP and best price for each of our
    products to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The
    terms of our participation in the program imposes a requirement
    for us to report revisions to AMP or best price within a period
    not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data was
    originally due. Any such revisions could have the impact of
    increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for





prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. In
    addition, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false
    information to the government, the statute provides for civil
    monetary penalties in the amount not to exceed $100,000 per item
    of false information in addition to other penalties available to
    the government.



The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts to a variety of community health clinics and
    other entities that receive health services grants from the
    Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.







Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws.
    Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our
    reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of
    the pertinent state authorities.



Other
    Regulations



Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act



We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act (FCPA), which prohibits corporations and individuals from
    paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything
    of value to any foreign government





official, government staff member, political party, or political
    candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to
    otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity.
    The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books
    and records that accurately and fairly reflect their
    transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of
    internal accounting controls.



NIH
    Guidelines



We conduct relevant research at all of our research facilities
    in the U.S. in compliance with the current
    U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research
    Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH Guidelines) and all
    other applicable federal and state regulations. By local
    ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with
    the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Cambridge,
    Massachusetts, San Diego, California, and Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina and are required to operate pursuant to
    certain permits.



Other
    Laws



Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government
    regulation, which might result from future legislation or
    administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials



We are focused on the manufacture of biologics. The chart below
    outlines the location of our primary manufacturing locations and
    products manufactured therein.



ResearchTriangleProductPark, NCCambridge, MAThird PartyAVONEXüüTYSABRIüFUMADERMüCLINICAL PRODUCTSüüü





In April 2009, the FDA approved our high titer process for the
    production of TYSABRI. Similar approval was obtained from the
    EMA in December 2008. The new, higher-yield process is being
    used to manufacture TYSABRI at our plant in Research Triangle
    Park, NC.



The Roche Group, through its wholly-owned member Genentech, is
    responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk
    RITUXAN and has sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk
    RITUXAN requirements to an independent third party.



We are in the final stages of constructing a large-scale
    biologics manufacturing facility in Hillerød, Denmark which
    is intended to manufacture large molecule products. The first
    phase is complete, which included construction of a labeling and
    packaging facility, administrative building and laboratory
    facility, installation of major equipment, and partial
    completion of a bulk manufacturing facility. The second phase of
    the project, which we began in January 2007, involves the
    completion and fit out of the bulk manufacturing facility and
    construction of a warehouse. The large scale manufacturing
    facility is scheduled to be ready for commercial production in
    late 2011. Recent manufacturing improvements have resulted in
    favorable production yields on TYSABRI, that have reduced our
    expected capacity requirements. As a result, we are evaluating
    several alternatives, including whether to delay completion of
    the facility.



We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw





materials and supplies required for the production of AVONEX,
    TYSABRI and FUMADERM are available from various suppliers in
    quantities adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the
    unique nature of the production of our products, we do have
    single source providers of several raw materials. We make
    efforts to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency plans
    so that production is not impacted by short-term issues
    associated with single source providers. Each of our third party
    service providers, suppliers and manufacturers is subject to
    continuing inspection by the FDA or comparable agencies in other
    jurisdictions. Any delay, interruption or other issues that
    arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of
    our products, including as a result of a failure of our
    facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to
    pass any regulatory agency inspection, could significantly
    impair our ability to sell our products.



Important factors that could adversely affect our manufacturing
    operations are discussed in the “Risk Factors” section
    of this report.

Our
    Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    4,750 employees.

Our
    Executive Officers



The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as
    of February 9, 2010 and their principal positions.



NameAgePositionJames C. Mullen51Chief Executive Officer and PresidentSusan H. Alexander53Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryPaul J. Clancy48Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerRobert A. Hamm58Chief Operating OfficerMichael Lytton52Executive Vice President, Corporate and Business DevelopmentMichael F. MacLean44Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerCraig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.62Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications





Reference to “our” or “us” in the following
    descriptions include Biogen Idec and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation, and references to the merger mean the merger of
    Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November
    2003.



James C. Mullenis our Chief Executive Officer and
    President and is a director, and has served in these positions
    since the merger. Mr. Mullen was formerly Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer of Biogen, Inc. He was named
    Chairman of the Board of Directors of Biogen, Inc. in July 2002,
    after being named Chief Executive Officer and President of
    Biogen, Inc. in June 2000. Mr. Mullen joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 1989 as Director, Facilities and Engineering. He was named
    Biogen, Inc.’s Vice President, Operations in 1992. From
    1996 to 1999, Mr. Mullen served as Vice President,
    International, with responsibility for building all Biogen, Inc.
    operations outside North America. From 1984 to 1988,
    Mr. Mullen held various positions at SmithKline Beckman
    Corporation (now GlaxoSmithKline plc). Mr. Mullen is a
    member of the board of directors and executive committee of the
    Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and is a former
    chairman of the board of BIO. Mr. Mullen has been a
    director of PerkinElmer, Inc. since 2004. Mr. Mullen will
    retire as Chief Executive Officer and President on June 8,
    2010 and will retire as a director at our 2010 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders.



Susan H. Alexanderis our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation since
    September 2003. From June 2001 to September 2003,
    Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA
    Technologies. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander





served as Counsel at Cabot Corporation from January 1995 to May
    2001. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law
    firms of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine &
    Ambrogne.



Paul J. Clancyis our Executive Vice President, Finance
    and Chief Financial Officer and has served in that position
    since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen Idec in 2001,
    and has held several senior executive positions, including Vice
    President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and
    U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President of Finance with
    responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor
    Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to joining Biogen
    Idec, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of
    financial and general management positions. He holds a B.S. in
    finance from Babson College and a M.B.A. from Columbia
    University.



Robert A. Hammis our Chief Operating Officer and has
    served in that position since March 2009. Previously,
    Mr. Hamm served as Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical
    Operations & Technology from October 2007 to March
    2009; Senior Vice President, Neurology Strategic Business Unit
    from January 2006 to October 2007; Senior Vice President,
    Immunology Business Unit from the merger until January 2006; and
    in the same capacity with Biogen, Inc. from November 2002 to
    November 2003. Before that, he served as Senior Vice
    President — Europe, Africa, Canada and Middle East
    from October 2001 to November 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Hamm
    served as Vice President — Sales and Marketing of
    Biogen, Inc. from October 2000 to October 2001. Mr. Hamm
    previously served as Vice President — Manufacturing
    from June 1999 to October 2000, Director, Northern Europe and
    Distributors from November 1996 until June 1999 and Associate
    Director, Logistics from April 1994 until November 1996. From
    1987 until April 1994, Mr. Hamm held a variety of
    management positions at Syntex Laboratories Corporation,
    including Director of Operations and New Product Planning, and
    Manager of Materials, Logistics and Contract Manufacturing.
    Mr. Hamm has been a member of the board of managers of
    Progenitor Cell Therapy, LLC. since 2006 and was a director of
    Inhibitex, Inc. from 2005 to 2009.



Michael Lyttonis our Executive Vice President, Corporate
    and Business Development, and has served in that position since
    February 2009. From 2001 to January 2009, he was a General
    Partner at Oxford Bioscience Partners, a venture capital firm.
    Prior to that, he was partner, chairman of the Technology Group
    and a member of the Executive Committee of the law firm Edwards,
    Angell, Palmer & Dodge LLP. Prior to that,
    Mr. Lytton was a junior partner and co-chairman of the
    Biotechnology Practice of the law firm WilmerHale.
    Mr. Lytton was a member of the supervisory board of GPC
    Biotech AG from 2001 to 2009.



Michael F. MacLeanis our Senior Vice President and Chief
    Accounting Officer and has served in that position since
    December 2006. Mr. MacLean joined us in October 2006 as
    Senior Vice President. Prior to joining us, Mr. MacLean was
    a managing director of Huron Consulting, where he provided
    support regarding financial reporting to management and boards
    of directors of Fortune 500 companies. From June 2002 to
    October 2005, Mr. MacLean was a partner at KPMG and he was
    a partner of Arthur Andersen LLP from September 1999 to May 2002.



Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D.is our Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in that position since October
    2007. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources from November 2003 to October 2007. Dr. Schneier
    served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Biogen,
    Inc., a position he held from January 2003 until the merger. He
    joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 as Senior Vice President, Strategic
    Organization Design and Effectiveness, after having served as an
    external consultant to us for eight years. Prior to joining
    Biogen, Inc., Dr. Schneier was president of his own
    management consulting firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided
    consulting services to over 70 of the Fortune
    100 companies, as well as several of the largest European
    and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a tenured professorship
    at the University of Maryland’s Smith School of Business
    and has held teaching positions at the business schools of the
    University of Michigan, Columbia University, and at the Tuck
    School of Business, Dartmouth College.





