Item 1.Business

Overview



Biogen Idec is a global biotechnology company focused on
    discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products
    for the treatment of neurological disorders and other serious
    diseases. Patients worldwide benefit from our significant
    products used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis,
    non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s
    disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and psoriasis.



Marketed
    Products



We have four therapeutic products on the market, which are
    summarized in the tables below.



Product Revenuesto Biogen Idec (in millions)ProductIndications201020092008AVONEX(interferon beta-1a)Multiple sclerosis$2,518.4$2,322.9$2,202.6TYSABRI(natalizumab)Multiple sclerosisCrohn’s disease900.2776.0588.6FUMADERM(dimethylfumarate and monoethylfumarate salts)Psoriasis51.249.643.4





Unconsolidated Joint BusinessRevenues to Biogen Idec (in millions)ProductIndications201020092008RITUXAN(rituximab)Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomaRheumatoid arthritisChronic lymphocytic leukemia$1,077.2$1,094.9$1,128.2





Additional financial information about our product revenues,
    other revenues and geographic areas in which we operate is set
    forth in our consolidated financial statements, Note 24,Segment Informationto our consolidated financial
    statements, and Item 6.Selected Consolidated Financial
    Dataincluded in this report.



Research
    and Development



We devote significant resources to research and development
    programs and external business development opportunities. We
    have incurred significant expenditures related to conducting
    clinical studies to develop new pharmaceutical products and
    explore the utility of our existing products in treating
    disorders beyond those currently approved in their labels.



In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our research and development costs
    totaled $1,248.6 million, $1,283.1 million, and
    $1,072.1 million, respectively. In addition, we incurred
    charges associated with acquired in process research and
    development as follows: $245.0 million in 2010 of which
    $145.0 million was attributed to noncontrolling interests;
    none in 2009; and $25.0 million in 2008.



CEO
    Appointment



On July 15, 2010, George A. Scangos, Ph.D. began
    serving as our Chief Executive Officer and member of our Board
    of Directors. Dr. Scangos succeeded James C. Mullen, who
    retired as our President and Chief Executive Officer on
    June 8, 2010.





Framework
    for Growth



On November 3, 2010, we announced a number of strategic,
    operational and organizational initiatives designed to provide a
    framework for the future growth of our business, which are
    summarized as follows:



•We intend to focus our business on neurology and leverage our
    strengths in biologics research, development and manufacturing
    to pursue select biological therapies where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. Accordingly, during the
    fourth quarter of 2010, we began to reallocate resources within
    our research and development organization to maximize our
    investment in our highest-potential programs. As a result, we
    have terminated or are in the process of discontinuing certain
    research and development programs, including substantially all
    of our oncology programs (which we are looking to spin out or
    out-license), our cardiovascular programs and selected neurology
    and immunology programs. In addition, we have substantially
    reduced our small molecule discovery activities in favor of
    outsourcing these efforts.•We are in the process of closing the San Diego, California
    facility and consolidating our Massachusetts facilities.•We eliminated our RITUXAN oncology and rheumatology sales force
    and Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a wholly-owned member of the
    Roche Group, has assumed sole responsibility for the
    U.S. sales and marketing efforts related to RITUXAN.•We are in the process of completing a 13% reduction in our
    workforce and realigning our overall structure to become a more
    efficient and cost-effective organization.



We expect these initiatives to be substantially completed by the
    end of 2011 and to result in total restructuring charges of
    approximately $110.0 million.



Business
    Development





•In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of 100% of the
    stock of Panima Pharmaceuticals AG (Panima), an affiliate of
    Neurimmune AG. The purchase price is comprised of a
    $32.5 million cash payment, plus contingent consideration
    in the form of development milestones of up to
    $395.0 million in cash. Panima is involved in the discovery
    of antibodies designed to treat neurological disorders. For a
    more detailed description of this transaction, please read
    Note 2,Acquisitionsto our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.



•In October 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with
    Genentech with regard to the development of ocrelizumab and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101. Under the terms of
    the amended agreement, Genentech is responsible for the further
    development and commercialization of ocrelizumab and funding
    future costs. We will receive tiered royalties between 13.5% and
    24% on U.S. sales of ocrelizumab. Commercialization of
    ocrelizumab will not impact our percentage of the co-promotion
    profits for RITUXAN. In addition, we will pay 35% of the
    development and commercialization expenses of GA101 and will
    receive between 35% and 39% of the profits of GA101 based upon
    the achievement of certain sales milestones. Commercialization
    of GA101 will impact our percentage of the co-promotion profits
    for RITUXAN. This amendment did not have an impact on our share
    of the co-promotion operating profits of RITUXAN in 2010. For a
    more detailed description of this collaboration, please read
    Note 19,Collaborationsto our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.



•In August 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. (Knopp), for the development, manufacture
    and commercialization of dexpramipexole, an orally administered
    small molecule in clinical development for the treatment of
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Under the terms of the
    license agreement we made a $26.4 million upfront payment
    and agreed to pay Knopp up to an additional $265.0 million
    in development and sales-based milestone payments, as well as
    royalties on future commercial sales. For a more detailed
    description of this transaction, please read Note 18,Investments in Variable Interest Entitiesto our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.







Available
    Information



We were formed as a California corporation in 1985 and became a
    Delaware corporation in 1997. In 2003, we acquired Biogen, Inc.
    and changed our corporate name from IDEC Pharmaceuticals
    Corporation to Biogen Idec Inc. Our principal executive offices
    are located at 133 Boston Post Road, Weston, MA 02493 and our
    telephone number is(781) 464-2000.Our website address is www.biogenidec.com. We make available
    free of charge through the Investors section of our website our
    Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We
    include our website address in this report only as an inactive
    textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to
    our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated
    into this filing.

Marketed
    Products



Our marketed products address the following diseases: multiple
    sclerosis (MS); non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL); rheumatoid
    arthritis (RA); Crohn’s disease (CD); chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL); and psoriasis. In addition, we are exploring the
    expansion of our marketed products into other diseases through
    ongoing development efforts. The approved indications for, and
    ongoing development of, our marketed products are summarized in
    the table below.



Development or MarketingProductApproved IndicationDevelopment ProgramCollaboratorsAVONEX(1)(interferon beta-1a)Relapsing MSNoneTYSABRI(2)(natalizumab)Relapsing MSElan PharmaceuticalsCDElan PharmaceuticalsRITUXAN(3)(rituximab)NHLGenentech (Roche Group)RAGenentech (Roche Group)CLLGenentech (Roche Group)ANCA-associated vasculitis in registrationGenentech (Roche Group)(Our rights are limited to U.S.)FUMADERM(4)(dimethylfurnarate andmonoethylfumarate salts)Severe psoriasisNone











(1)AVONEX is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsing
    forms of MS to slow the accumulation of physical disability and
    decrease the frequency of clinical exacerbations.



(2)TYSABRI is indicated for the treatment of (1) relapsing
    forms of MS as a monotherapy to delay the accumulation of
    physical disability and reduce the frequency of clinical
    exacerbations and (2) in the U.S., moderately to severely
    active CD with evidence of inflammation in adult patients who
    have had an inadequate response to or inability to tolerate
    conventional CD therapies and TNF inhibitors.



(3)RITUXAN is indicated for the treatment of (1)(a) relapsed or
    refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL
    as a single agent, (b) previously untreated follicular,
    CD20-positive, B-cell NHL in combination with first line
    chemotherapy and, in patients achieving a complete or partial
    response to RITUXAN in combination with chemotherapy, as asingle-agentmaintenance therapy, (c) non-progressing (including stable
    disease), low-grade, CD20-positive, B-cell NHL, as a single
    agent, after first-line CVP chemotherapy, and
    (d) previously untreated diffuse large B-cell,
    CD20-positive NHL in combination with cyclophosphamide,
    doxorubicin, ONCOVIN and prednisone or other anthracycline-based
    chemotherapy regimens, (2) CD20-positive CLL in combination
    with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, and (3) moderately-
    to severely-active RA, in combination with methotrexate, in
    adult patients who have had an inadequate response to one or
    more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist therapies.



(4)FUMADERM is only approved in Germany and is indicated for the
    treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe plaque
    psoriasis for whom topical therapy is ineffective.







AVONEX



AVONEX is a leading therapeutic for relapsing forms of MS. MS is
    a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses the
    ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a
    loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death.
    Patients with active relapsing MS experience an uneven pattern
    of disease progression characterized by periods of stability
    that are interrupted byflare-upsof
    the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of
    functioning. AVONEX is a recombinant form of the interferon beta
    protein produced in the body in response to viral infection.



TYSABRI



TYSABRI is a treatment for MS with powerful efficacy. TYSABRI is
    a monoclonal antibody that was initially approved by the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2004 to
    treat relapsing MS. In February 2005, in consultation with the
    FDA, we and our collaborator Elan Corporation plc (Elan)
    voluntarily suspended the marketing and commercial distribution
    of TYSABRI based on reports of cases of progressive multifocal
    leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with TYSABRI in
    clinical studies. PML is an opportunistic viral infection of the
    brain that often leads to death or severe disability. In July
    2006, TYSABRI was reintroduced in the U.S., and introduced in
    the European Union (E.U.), as a monotherapy treatment for
    relapsing MS. TYSABRI is also approved in the U.S. to treat
    CD, which is an inflammatory disease of the intestines.



Because of the risk of PML, TYSABRI has a boxed warning and is
    marketed under risk management or minimization plans approved by
    local regulatory authorities. In the U.S., TYSABRI was
    reintroduced under the TOUCH Prescribing Program, a restricted
    distribution program designed to assess and minimize the risk of
    PML, minimize death and disability due to PML, and promote
    informed risk-benefit decisions regarding TYSABRI use.



Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing
    program and other third-party sources, we estimate that as of
    December 31, 2010 approximately 56,600 patients were
    on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. We
    continue to monitor the growth of TYSABRI unit sales, which may
    be adversely impacted by the significant safety warnings in the
    prescribing information. We continue to research and develop
    protocols that may reduce risk and improve outcomes of PML in
    patients. Our efforts have included working to identify patient
    or viral characteristics which contribute to the risk of
    developing PML, including the presence of asymptomatic JC virus
    infection with an assay to detect an immune response against the
    JC virus.



We have initiated the five year renewal process for
    TYSABRI’s marketing authorization in the E.U. This
    marketing authorization review by E.U. regulators, in addition
    to ongoing label discussions with U.S. regulators, includes
    assessment of the criteria for confirming PML diagnosis, the
    number of PML cases, the incidence of PML in TYSABRI patients,
    the risk factors for PML, as well as an overall assessment of
    TYSABRI’s benefit-risk profile. Our interactions with E.U.
    and U.S. regulators could result in modifications to the
    respective labels or other restrictions for TYSABRI. Upon
    completion of the assessment of the TYSABRI renewal in the E.U.
    the marketing authorization is expected to be valid for either
    an unlimited period or for an additional five year term.



We collaborate with Elan on the development and
    commercialization of TYSABRI. For a more detailed description of
    this collaboration, please read Note 19,Collaborationsto our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.



    Developments



•In December 2010, we and Elan submitted a supplemental Biologics
    License Application (sBLA) to the FDA and a Type II
    Variation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to request
    review and approval to update the respective TYSABRI Prescribing
    Information and Summary of Product Characteristics. We are
    proposing updated product labeling to include anti-JC virus
    antibody status as one potential factor to help stratify the
    risk of PML in the TYSABRI-treated population.•In November 2010, we updated the E.U. TYSABRI label to include
    information about the increased risk of PML in patients who have
    a history of prior treatment with immunosuppressant therapy.•In July 2010, we updated the U.S. TYSABRI label to reflect
    that the risk of PML increases in patients with prior
    immunosuppressant use.







•In May 2010, we updated the U.S. TYSABRI label to reflect
    that Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome (IRIS) may
    occur in patients who developed PML and subsequently
    discontinued TYSABRI.•In May 2010, we updated the E.U. TYSABRI label to reflect that
    the risk of PML increases after two years of therapy, with
    limited experience beyond three years, and there is a risk for
    the occurrence of IRIS in patients with TYSABRI induced PML
    following discontinuation or removal of TYSABRI by plasma
    exchange, a process that clears TYSABRI from patients’
    blood allowing the immune system to fight the infection.•In March 2010, we began enrolling patients in a Phase 3 study,
    known as SURPASS, designed to evaluate switching patients with
    relapsing MS to TYSABRI from COPAXONE or REBIF. Although
    enrollment targets have not been met, we have stopped enrollment
    and will continue the study for currently enrolled patients.•In March 2010, we began enrolling patients in two Phase 4
    studies, known as STRATIFY-1 and STRATIFY-2, designed to
    evaluate the potential utility of a blood test that is designed
    to detect antibodies to the JC virus.



RITUXAN



RITUXAN is a widely prescribed oncology therapeutic with over
    2.4 million patient exposures across all indications.
    RITUXAN is a monoclonal antibody used to treat NHL, CLL and RA.
    NHL and CLL are cancers that affect lymphocytes, which are a
    type of white blood cell that help to fight infection. RA is a
    chronic disease that occurs when the immune system mistakenly
    attacks the body’s joints, resulting in inflammation, pain
    and joint damage.



We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. In October 2010, we amended our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech with regard to the
    development of ocrelizumab, a humanized anti-CD20 antibody, and
    agreed to terms for the development of GA101, a next-generation
    anti-CD20 antibody. For a more detailed description of this
    collaboration, please read Note 19,Collaborationsto our consolidated financial statements included in this
    report.



    Developments



•In October 2010, we and Genentech filed a supplemental biologics
    license application with the FDA to expand the U.S. RITUXAN
    label for the treatment of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody
    (ANCA) associated vasculitis, a systemic inflammation of the
    blood vessels.•In May 2010, we and Genentech announced that data from a Phase 3
    study, known as PRIMA, showed that continuing RITUXAN for two
    years in patients who responded to initial treatment with
    RITUXAN plus chemotherapy doubled the likelihood of them living
    without their disease worsening compared to those who stopped
    treatment. The RITUXAN label has since been expanded to include
    maintenance treatment for patients with advanced follicular
    lymphoma who responded to initial treatment with RITUXAN plus
    chemotherapy.•In March 2010, we and Genentech were issued a patent by the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) related to a method
    of treating CLL using an anti-CD20 antibody. For information
    about legal proceedings related to this patent, please read
    Note 20,Litigationto our consolidated financial
    statements included in this report.•In February 2010, the FDA approved RITUXAN for the treatment of
    CD20-positive CLL in combination with fludarabine and
    cyclophosphamide, expanding the label beyond the treatment of
    NHL and RA.



FUMADERM



FUMADERM is approved for the treatment of severe psoriasis in
    Germany. Psoriasis is a skin disease in which cells build up on
    the skin surface and form scales and red patches.





Other
    Sources of Revenue



Our primary source of other revenue is derived from royalties
    received on sales by our licensees of other products covered
    under patents that we own. Our royalty revenues are dependent
    upon our licensees’ sales of licensed products which could
    vary significantly due to competition, manufacturing,
    regulatory, safety or efficacy issues or other factors that are
    outside our control. In addition, the expiration or invalidation
    of any underlying patents could reduce or eliminate the royalty
    revenues derived from such patents. Royalties on sales of
    ANGIOMAX (bivalirudin) by The Medicines Company (TMC) represent
    our most significant source of other revenue. TMC markets
    ANGIOMAX primarily in the U.S. and the E.U. for use as an
    anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
    intervention. For a description of this royalty arrangement and
    factors that could adversely affect this portion of our
    revenues, please read the subsection entitled “Other
    Revenue — Royalty Revenues” in the
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” section of this
    report.



We have also sold or exclusively licensed to third parties
    rights to certain products previously included within our
    product line. Royalty or supply agreement revenues received
    based upon those products are recorded as corporate partner
    revenue. Amounts recorded as corporate partner revenue also
    include amounts earned upon delivery of product under contract
    manufacturing agreements.



In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our royalty revenues totaled
    $137.4 million, $124.4 million and
    $116.2 million, respectively, and our corporate partner
    revenues totaled $31.7 million, $5.1 million and
    $13.4 million, respectively.





Research
    and Development Programs



We intend to continue committing significant resources to
    research and development opportunities, focusing on
    high-potential treatments for select disorders where there is a
    significant unmet need and where the drug candidate has the
    potential to be highly differentiated. The table below
    highlights our research and development programs. Drug
    development involves a high degree of risk and investment, and
    the status, timing and scope of our development programs are
    subject to change. Important factors that could adversely affect
    our drug development efforts are discussed in the “Risk
    Factors” section of this report.



Therapeutic AreaProduct CandidateTargeted IndicationsStatusNeurologyFAMPYRAMS (walking ability)In registration (our rights exclude the
    U.S.)BG-12MS (monotherapy)Phase 3DaclizumabMSPhase 3PEGylated Interferon Beta 1aMSPhase 3BG-12MS (combination therapy)Phase 2DexpramipexoleAmyotrophic Lateral SclerosisPhase 3 plannedAnti-LINGOMSPhase 1BaminerceptMSPhase 1bNeublastinNeuropathyPhase 1BIIB034Parkinson’s DiseasePreclinicalBARTAlzheimer’s DiseasePreclinicalGamma Secretase ModulatorAlzheimer’s DiseasePreclinicalImmunologyAnti-TWEAKLupusPhase 2 plannedBaminerceptUlcerative ColitisPhase 2aAnti-TWEAKRAPhase 1CD40L - FabLupusPhase 1HemophiliaFactor VIII FcHemophilia APhase 3Factor IX FcHemophilia BPhase 3OncologyGA101Chronic Lymphocytic LeukemiaPhase 3Non-Hodgkin’s LymphomaPhase 3





Additional information about our product candidates in or near
    registrational stage development by therapeutic area is set
    forth below:



Neurology



FAMPYRA



FAMPYRA (prolonged-release  fampridine) is an oral compound that
    is being developed as a treatment to improve walking ability in
    people with MS. We have filed for approval of FAMPYRA for this
    indication in the E.U., Canada, Australia and other
    jurisdictions. FAMPYRA was approved in the U.S. in January
    2010 and is marketed by Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. under the
    trade name AMPYRA (dalfampridine) Extended Release Tablets
    10 mg. AMPYRA is indicated to improve walking in patients
    with MS. This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed.
    We collaborate with Acorda on the development and
    commercialization of FAMPYRA in markets outside the
    U.S. For a more detailed description of this collaboration,
    please read Note 19,Collaborationsto our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.



In January 2011, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products
    for Human Use (CHMP) issued a negative opinion recommending
    against approval of FAMPYRA to improve walking ability in adult
    patients with MS in the





E.U. We intend to appeal this opinion and request a
    re-examination of the decision by the CHMP. We also received a
    Notice of Deficiency from Health Canada for our application to
    sell FAMPYRA in Canada.



BG-12



BG-12 is an oral compound that is being tested in relapsing MS.
    During 2009, we completed patient enrollment in two Phase 3
    studies of BG-12 in relapsing MS, known as DEFINE and CONFIRM,
    one of which includes a glatiramer acetate (COPAXONE) reference
    comparator arm. The two studies were designed to have a two year
    endpoint with each study involving approximately 1,000 to
    1,200 patients. The FDA has granted BG-12 fast track
    status, which may result in an expedited review.



Daclizumab



Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in
    relapsing MS. A Phase 2b trial of daclizumab in MS, known as
    SELECT, completed enrollment in 2010. The SELECT trial has a one
    year end point and is expected to involve approximately
    600 patients worldwide. In May 2010, we began patient
    enrollment in a Phase 3 study of daclizumab in relapsing MS,
    known as DECIDE, evaluating the efficacy and safety of
    daclizumab compared to interferon beta-1a (AVONEX). The DECIDE
    trial is designed to have a two year endpoint and is expected to
    involve approximately 1,500 patients.



We collaborate with Abbott Biotherapeutics Corporation (Abbott),
    on the development and commercialization of daclizumab. In
    January 2010, we amended our collaboration agreement with Abbott
    whereby we assumed full development and manufacturing
    responsibility for daclizumab. For a more detailed description
    of this collaboration, please read Note 19,Collaborationsto our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.



PEGylated
    interferon beta-1a



PEGylated interferon beta-1a is designed to prolong the effects
    and reduce the dosing frequency of interferon beta-1a. During
    the first half of 2009, we began patient enrollment in a Phase 3
    trial of PEGylated interferon beta-1a in relapsing MS, known as
    ADVANCE. The study is designed to have a one year endpoint and
    involve approximately 1,200 patients. The FDA has granted
    PEGylated interferon beta-1a fast track status, which may result
    in an expedited review.



Dexpramipexole



Dexpramipexole is an orally administered small molecule in
    clinical development for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral
    sclerosis (ALS). ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease,
    is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive
    muscle weakness and wasting.



We have agreed with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment for
    the design of a registrational study of dexpramipexole and
    expect to begin patient enrollment in the first half of 2011.
    Dexpramipexole has been granted fast track status by the FDA,
    which may result in an expedited review, and has received orphan
    drug designation for the treatment of ALS from both the FDA and
    EMA.



We have entered into a license agreement with Knopp
    Neurosciences, Inc. for the development, manufacture and
    commercialization of dexpramipexole. For a more detailed
    description of this collaboration, please read Note 18,Investments in Variable Interest Entitiesto our
    consolidated financial statements included in this report.



Hemophilia



Long-Lasting
    Recombinant Factors VIII and IX.



We collaborate with Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Biovitrum) on
    the development and commercialization of long-lasting
    recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX. In February 2010, we
    amended our collaboration agreement with Biovitrum to provide
    that we will assume full development responsibilities and costs
    and perform all manufacturing for the Factor VIII and Factor XI
    programs, among other matters. For a more detailed description
    of this collaboration, please read Note 19,Collaborationsto our consolidated financial statements
    included in this report.





Factor VIII is a proprietary fusion protein that is being tested
    in hemophilia A, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    In December 2010, we began patient enrollment in a
    registrational trial of Factor VIII in hemophilia A, known as
    A-LONG. This study will involve approximately 150 patients.
    Factor VIII has received orphan drug designation for the
    treatment of hemophilia A from both the FDA and EMA.



Factor IX is a proprietary fusion protein that is being tested
    in hemophilia B, a disorder in which blood clotting is impaired.
    During the first half of 2010, we began patient enrollment in a
    registrational trial of Factor IX in hemophilia B, known as
    B-LONG. This study will involve approximately 100 patients.
    Factor IX has received orphan drug designation for the treatment
    of hemophilia B from both the FDA and EMA.



Oncology



GA101



GA101 is a monoclonal antibody that is being tested in CLL and
    NHL. During the second half of 2009, we began patient enrollment
    in a Phase 3 trial of GA101 in combination with chlorambucil as
    compared to rituximab plus chlorambucil or chlorambucil alone in
    patients with previously untreated CLL. The study has a
    6 month end point, with a minimum five yearfollow-upperiod, and is expected to involve approximately
    800 patients worldwide. In April 2010, we began patient
    enrollment in a Phase 3 trial of GA101 combined with
    bendamustine compared with bendamustine alone in patients with
    rituximab-refractory, indolent NHL. The study has a six to
    twelve month end point and is expected to involve approximately
    360 patients.



We collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of GA101. In October 2010, we amended our
    collaboration agreement with Genentech to specify the terms for
    the development of GA101, among other matters. For a more
    detailed description of this collaboration and the recent
    amendment, please read Note 19,Collaborationsto
    our consolidated financial statements included in this report.



Former
    Registrational Programs



In October 2010, we agreed to terminate our collaboration with
    Cardiokine Biopharma, LLC (Cardiokine ) for the development of
    lixivaptan in hyponatremia effective November 1, 2010.
    Under the terms of the agreement, we have funded our share of
    development costs through the effective date and made a final
    payment of $25.0 million to Cardiokine. The termination was
    consistent with our broader strategic decision to terminate our
    efforts in cardiovascular medicine described above under the
    heading “Overview — Framework for
    Growth.”



In May 2010, we and the Roche Group announced our decision to
    discontinue the ocrelizumab clinical development program for the
    treatment of patients with RA. Following a detailed analysis of
    the efficacy and safety results from the RA program, we
    concluded that the overall benefit to risk profile of
    ocrelizumab was not favorable in RA taking into account
    currently available treatment options. The ocrelizumab RA
    program included several Phase 3 studies.

Patents
    and Other Proprietary Rights



Patents are important to developing and protecting our
    competitive position. We regularly seek patent protection in the
    U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for
    inventions originating from our research and development
    efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and
    patent applications, generally, in return for the payment of
    royalties to the patent owner. U.S. patents, as well as
    most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years
    from the date the earliest (priority) application was filed;
    however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed
    before June 8, 1995 may be effective until
    17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the
    20 year date. In some cases, the patent term may be
    extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA
    regulatory review or because of U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. The
    duration of foreign patents varies similarly, in accordance with
    local law.



We also rely upon unpatented confidential information to remain
    competitive. We protect such information principally through
    confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants,
    outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we
    sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these
    agreements also





provide, in compliance with relevant law, that inventions and
    other intellectual property conceived by such employees during
    their employment shall be our exclusive property.



Our trademarks, including RITUXAN and AVONEX, are important to
    us and are generally covered by trademark applications or
    registrations in the USPTO and the patent offices of other
    countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties,
    such as the mark TYSABRI which we license from Elan. Trademark
    protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in
    some countries as long as the mark is used and in other
    countries as long as the mark is registered. Trademark
    registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.



Our patent position and proprietary rights are subject to
    certain risks and uncertainties. For additional information
    about certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent
    position and proprietary rights, please read the “Risk
    Factors” section of this report.



Additional information about the patents and other proprietary
    rights covering our marketed products is set forth below.



AVONEX
    and Beta Interferon



Our U.S. patent No. 7,588,755, granted in September
    2009, claims the use of beta interferon for immunomodulation or
    treating a viral condition, viral disease, cancers or tumors.
    This patent, which expires in September 2026, covers, among
    other things, the treatment of MS with our product AVONEX. This
    issuance of this patent extends the expected remaining life of
    the intangible asset related to our AVONEX core technology. For
    information about legal proceedings related to this patent,
    please read Note 20,Litigationto our consolidated
    financial statements included in this report.



We have non-exclusive rights under certain third-party patents
    and patent applications to manufacture, use and sell AVONEX,
    including patents owned by the Japanese Foundation for Cancer
    Research which expire in 2011 and 2013 in the U.S., and a
    European patent owned by Rentschler Biotechnologie GmbH, which
    expires in 2012. Additionally, third parties own pending
    U.S. patent applications related to recombinant
    interferon-beta. These applications, which fall outside of the
    GATT amendments to the U.S. patent statute, are not
    published by the USPTO and, if they mature into granted patents,
    may be entitled to a term of seventeen years from the grant
    date. There is at least one pending interference proceeding in
    the USPTO involving such third party applications, and
    additional interferences could be declared in the future. We are
    unable to predict which, if any, such applications will mature
    into patents with claims relevant to our AVONEX product.



TYSABRI



We and our collaborator, Elan, have patents and patent
    applications covering TYSABRI in the U.S. and other
    countries. These patents and patent applications cover TYSABRI
    and related manufacturing methods, as well as various methods of
    treatment using the product. In the U.S., the principal patents
    covering the product and use of the product to treat MS
    generally expire between 2015 and 2020. Additional
    U.S. patents and applications covering other indications,
    including treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, and methods
    of manufacturing generally expire between 2012 and 2020. In the
    rest of world, patents on the product and methods of
    manufacturing the product generally expire between 2015 and
    2020, subject to any supplemental protection (i.e., patent term
    extension) certificates that may be obtained. In the rest of
    world, patents and patent applications covering methods of
    treatment using TYSABRI generally expire between 2012 and 2020.



RITUXAN
    and Anti-CD20 Antibodies



We have several U.S. patents and patent applications, and
    numerous corresponding foreign counterparts, directed to
    anti-CD20 antibody technology, including RITUXAN. The principal
    patents with claims to RITUXAN or its uses expire in the
    U.S. between 2015 and 2018 and in the rest of the world in
    2013, subject to any available patent term extensions. In
    addition, we and our collaborator, Genentech, have filed
    numerous patent applications directed to anti-CD20 antibodies
    and their uses to treat various diseases. These pending patent
    applications have the potential of issuing as patents in the
    U.S. and in the rest of world with claims to anti-CD20
    antibody molecules for





periods beyond that stated above for RITUXAN. In 2008, a
    European patent of ours claiming the treatment with anti-CD20
    antibodies of certain auto-immune indications, including RA, was
    revoked by the European Patent Office. We are appealing that
    decision.



Genentech, our collaborator on RITUXAN, has secured an exclusive
    license to five U.S. patents and counterpart U.S. and
    foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation that
    relate to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. These
    patents expire between 2007 and 2014. Genentech has granted us a
    non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
    RITUXAN under these patents and patent applications. We, along
    with Genentech, share the cost of any royalties due to Xoma in
    our co-promotion territory on sales of RITUXAN.

Sales,
    Marketing and Distribution



We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist
    physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We
    use customary pharmaceutical company practices to market our
    products and to educate physicians, such as sales
    representatives calling on individual physicians,
    advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, public
    relations and other methods. We provide customer service and
    other related programs for our products, such as disease and
    product-specific websites, insurance research services and
    order, delivery and fulfillment services. We have also
    established programs in the U.S. which provide qualified
    uninsured or underinsured patients with marketed products at no
    or reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria.
    Additional information about our sales, marketing and
    distribution efforts for our marketed products is set forth
    below.



AVONEX



We continue to focus our marketing and sales activities on
    maximizing the potential of AVONEX in the U.S. and the rest
    of world in the face of increased competition. The principal
    markets for AVONEX are the U.S., Germany, France and Italy. In
    the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Japan and most
    of the major countries of the E.U., we market and sell AVONEX
    through our own sales forces and marketing groups and distribute
    AVONEX principally through wholesale distributors of
    pharmaceutical products, mail order specialty distributors or
    shipping service providers. In other countries, we sell AVONEX
    to distribution partners who are then responsible for most
    marketing and distribution activities.



TYSABRI



The principal markets for TYSABRI are the U.S., Germany, France
    and Italy.



In the U.S., we are principally responsible for marketing
    TYSABRI for MS and use our own sales force and marketing group
    for this. Elan is responsible for TYSABRI distribution in the
    U.S. and uses a third party distributor to ship TYSABRI
    directly to customers.



In the rest of world, we are responsible for TYSABRI marketing
    and distribution and we use a combination of our own sales force
    and marketing group and third party service providers.



FUMADERM



FUMADERM is marketed only in Germany. We have been marketing and
    distributing FUMADERM directly in Germany since February 2009
    and previously used a third party service provider.



RITUXAN



The Roche Group and its sublicensees market and sell RITUXAN
    worldwide. In the U.S, we had previously contributed a sales
    force and other resources to the marketing of RITUXAN. In
    connection with our framework for growth initiative, we reached
    an agreement with Genentech to eliminate our RITUXAN oncology
    and rheumatology sales force, with Genentech assuming sole
    responsibility for the U.S. sales and marketing efforts
    related to RITUXAN. Notwithstanding this operational decision,
    we continue to collaborate with Genentech on the development and
    commercialization of RITUXAN. RITUXAN is generally sold to
    wholesalers, specialty distributors and directly to hospital
    pharmacies.





Competition



Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
    is intense and comes from many and varied sources, including
    specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical
    companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop
    products similar to those we are developing or already market
    and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials
    and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical
    products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater
    financial, marketing and research and development resources than
    we do.



We believe that competition and leadership in the industry will
    be based on managerial and technological superiority and
    establishing patent and other proprietary positions through
    research and development. The achievement of a leadership
    position also depends largely upon our ability to identify and
    exploit commercially the products resulting from research and
    the availability of adequate financial resources to fund
    facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing,
    manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining
    competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining
    qualified scientists and technicians. We believe that we have
    been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific
    personnel.



Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among
    other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety,
    convenience, reliability, availability and price. In addition,
    early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may
    have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and
    market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can
    develop products, complete the testing and approval process and
    supply commercial quantities of products will have an important
    impact on our competitive position.



We may face increased competitive pressures as a result of the
    emergence of biosimilars. In the United States, most of our
    marketed products, including AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, are
    licensed under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) as
    biological products. In March 2010, U.S. healthcare reform
    legislation amended the PHSA to authorize the FDA to approve
    biological products, known as biosimilars or follow-on
    biologics, that are shown to be highly similar to previously
    approved biological products based upon potentially abbreviated
    data packages. The approval pathway for biosimilars does,
    however, grant a biologics manufacturer a 12 year period of
    exclusivity from the date of approval of its biological product
    before biosimilar competition can be introduced. Biosimilars
    legislation has also been in place in the E.U. since 2003. In
    November 2010, draft guidelines issued by the EMA for
    approving biosimilars of marketed monoclonal antibody products
    were adopted by the CHMP. These guidelines are now out for
    public consultation. If a biosimilar version of one of our
    products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that
    product.



Additional information about the competition that our marketed
    products face is set forth below.



AVONEX
    AND TYSABRI



AVONEX and TYSABRI both compete with the following products:



•COPAXONE (glatiramer acetate), which is marketed by Teva
    Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in the U.S. and copromoted
    by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and Sanofi-Aventis in Europe.
    COPAXONE generated worldwide revenues of approximately
    $2.8 billion in 2009.•REBIF (interferon-beta-1a), which is co-promoted by EMD Serono,
    a subsidiary of Merck Serono, and Pfizer Inc. in the
    U.S. and is marketed by Merck Serono in the E.U. REBIF
    generated worldwide revenues of approximately $2.0 billion
    in 2009.•BETASERON (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Bayer
    HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. pharmaceuticals
    affiliate of Bayer Schering Pharma AG, in the U.S. and is
    marketed under the name BETAFERON by Bayer Schering Pharma AG in
    the E.U. BETASERON and BETAFERON together generated worldwide
    revenues of approximately $1.6 billion in 2009.•EXTAVIA (interferon-beta-1b), which is marketed by Novartis AG
    in the E.U. and other markets. EXTAVIA was launched in the
    U.S. in September 2009. EXTAVIA generated worldwide revenue
    of approximately $49.0 million in 2009.







•GILENYA (fingolimod), which is marketed by Novartis AG in the
    U.S. GILENYA is the first oral MS drug approved in the U.S., and
    was launched in the U.S. in October 2010. In January 2011,
    GILENYA was recommended for approval in the E.U. by the CHMP,
    and is either approved or under review in other countries.



Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop
    additional treatments for MS that may in the future compete with
    AVONEX and TYSABRI. For example, an oral formulation of
    cladribine (developed by Merck Serono) has recently been
    approved for use in Australia and Russia. LEMTRADA (alemtuzumab)
    (developed by Genzyme Corporation), teriflunomide (developed by
    Sanofi-Aventis) and laquinimod (developed by Teva Pharmaceutical
    Industries) are in late-stage development for the treatment of
    MS. In addition, the commercialization of certain of our own
    pipeline product candidates, such as BG-12, may also negatively
    impact future sales of AVONEX and TYSABRI.



FUMADERM



FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in
    the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics
    such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.



RITUXAN
    IN ONCOLOGY



RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the oncology market, including:



•CAMPATH (alemtuzumab) (marketed by Bayer HealthCare
    Pharmaceuticals), which is indicated for B-cell CLL.•TREANDA (bendamustine HCL) (marketed by Cephalon) and ARZERRA
    (ofatumumab) (marketed by GenMab in collaboration with
    GlaxoSmithKline), which is indicated for refractory CLL patients
    to both alemtuzumab and fludarabine.



We are also aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development
    that, if successfully developed and registered, may compete with
    RITUXAN in the oncology market.



RITUXAN
    IN RA



RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in
    the RA market, including:



•traditional therapies for RA, including disease-modifying
    anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and
    cyclosporine, and pain relievers such as acetaminophen.•TNF inhibitors, such as REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI
    (golimumab) (marketed by Johnson & Johnson), HUMIRA
    (adalimumab) (marketed by Abbott Laboratories), ENBREL
    (etanercept) (marketed by Amgen, Inc. and Pfizer) and CIMZIA
    (certolizumab pegol) (marketed by UCB, S.A.).•ORENCIA (abatacept) (marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company).•ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) (marketed by the Roche Group).



We are also aware of other products in development that, if
    successfully developed and registered, may compete with RITUXAN
    in the RA market.

Regulatory



Our current and contemplated activities and the products and
    processes that will result from such activities are subject to
    substantial government regulation.



Regulation
    of Pharmaceuticals



Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the
    U.S. and other countries, preclinical studies and clinical
    trials of the products must be conducted and the results
    submitted to appropriate regulatory agencies for approval.
    Clinical trial programs must establish efficacy, determine an
    appropriate dose and regimen, and define the conditions for safe
    use. This is a high-risk process that requires stepwise clinical
    studies in which the candidate product must successfully meet
    predetermined endpoints. In the U.S., the results of the
    preclinical and clinical





testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in the form
    of a Biologics License Application (BLA) or a New Drug
    Application (NDA). In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may
    grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny
    the application if it determines the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. Similar submissions are
    required by authorities in other jurisdictions who independently
    assess the product and may reach the same or different
    conclusions. Our initial focus for obtaining marketing approval
    outside the U.S. is typically the E.U. There are currently
    three potential tracks for marketing approval in E.U. countries:
    mutual recognition, decentralized procedures, and centralized
    procedures. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to
    approval in all countries within the E.U., but each method
    grants all participating countries some decision-making
    authority in product approval.



The receipt of regulatory approval often takes a number of
    years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and
    depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the
    disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments,
    potential safety signals observed in preclinical or clinical
    tests, and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical
    trials. On occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger
    or additional studies, leading to unanticipated delay or
    expense. Even after initial FDA approval or approvals from other
    regulatory agencies have been obtained, further clinical trials
    may be required to provide additional data on safety and
    effectiveness. Additional trials are required to gain approval
    for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other
    than those initially approved. Furthermore, the FDA and other
    regulatory agencies require companies to register clinical
    trials and disclose clinical trial results in public databases.
    Failure to register a trial or disclose study results within the
    required time periods could result in penalties, including civil
    monetary penalties.





In addition, the FDA may grant “fast track” status to
    products that treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical
    need. Fast track is a process designed to expedite the review of
    such products by providing, among other things, more frequent
    meetings with the FDA to discuss the product’s development
    plan, more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about
    trial design, eligibility for accelerated approval, and rolling
    review, which allows submission of individually completed
    sections of a NDA for FDA review before the entire NDA is
    completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will
    be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.



If the FDA or other regulatory agency approves a product or new
    indication, the agency may require us to conduct additional
    post-marketing studies. If we fail to conduct the required
    studies or otherwise fail to comply with the conditions of
    accelerated approval, the agency may withdraw its approval. In
    addition, the FDA and EMA can impose financial penalties for
    failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments,
    including REMS.



Regulatory authorities track information on side effects and
    adverse events reported during clinical studies and after
    marketing approval. Non-compliance with regulatory
    authorities’ safety reporting requirements may result in
    civil or criminal penalties. Side effects or adverse events that
    are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede, or





prevent marketing approval. Regulatory authorities may conduct
    post-marketing safety surveillance and may require additional
    post-approval studies or clinical trials. These requirements may
    affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our
    products or require us to make significant expenditures to
    obtain or maintain such approvals. In addition, adverse events
    that are reported after marketing approval can result in changes
    to the product’s labeling, additional limitations being
    placed on the product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal or
    suspension of the product from the market.



If we seek to make certain types of changes to an approved
    product, such as adding a new indication, making certain
    manufacturing changes, or changing manufacturers or suppliers of
    certain ingredients or components, regulatory authorities,
    including the FDA and EMA, will need to review and approve such
    changes in advance. Such regulatory reviews can result in denial
    or modification of the planned changes, or requirements to
    conduct additional tests or evaluations that can substantially
    delay or increase the cost of the planned changes.



In addition, the FDA regulates all advertising and promotion
    activities for products under its jurisdiction both before and
    after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to
    safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. However,
    physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that
    are not described in the drug’s labeling. Such off-label
    uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a
    physician’s belief that the off-label use is the best
    treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior
    of physicians in their choice of treatments, but the FDA
    regulations do impose stringent restrictions on
    manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label uses.
    Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a
    company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA,
    corrective advertising, and the full range of civil and criminal
    penalties available to the FDA. Similar regulations are in place
    in outside the U.S.



Good
    Manufacturing Practices



The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies regulate and
    inspect equipment, facilities, and processes used in the
    manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to
    approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from
    regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional
    regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must
    adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices and
    product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA following
    product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment,
    facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a
    product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined
    that our equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with
    applicable regulations and conditions of product approval,
    regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal, or administrative
    sanctions or remedies against us, including the suspension of
    our manufacturing operations.



Good
    Clinical Practices



The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate
    regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current Good
    Clinical Practices (cGCP), for designing, conducting,
    monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical
    trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that
    the rights and welfare of trial participants are adequately
    protected. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies
    enforce cGCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors,
    principal investigators and trial sites, contract research
    organizations (CROs), and institutional review boards. If our
    studies fail to comply with applicable cGCP, the clinical data
    generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and
    relevant regulatory agencies may require us to perform
    additional clinical trials before approving our marketing
    applications. Noncompliance can also result in civil or criminal
    sanctions. We rely on third parties, including CROs, to carry
    out many of our clinical trial-related activities. Failure of
    such third party to comply with cGCP can likewise result in
    rejection of our clinical trial data or other sanctions.



Orphan
    Drug Act



Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan
    drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease
    or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition
    that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If
    a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently
    receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it
    has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan
    exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other
    applications to market the same drug for the same indication for
    a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in
    certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product
    is shown to be





clinically superior to the orphan product. Legislation similar
    to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other
    countries, including within the E.U.



Regulation Pertaining
    to Sales, Marketing and Product Pricing



The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider
    reforming health care coverage and costs. Such reform may
    include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of our
    products which may have a significant impact on our business.



In 2010, significant healthcare reform legislation was enacted
    in the U.S., which has had and will continue to have an impact
    our business by:



•expanding the coverage of and increasing the rate of rebates on
    sales of our products, including (1) increasing the
    Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer
    price (AMP) on our branded prescription drugs,
    (2) extending the Medicaid rebate to Managed Care
    Organizations, and (3) expanding the 340B Public Health
    Service (PHS) drug pricing program, which provides outpatient
    drugs at reduced rates, to include additional hospitals,
    clinics, and healthcare centers;•requiring drug manufactures to provide a 50% discount to
    Medicare beneficiaries whose prescription drug costs cause them
    to be subject to the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e. the
    “donut hole”);•assessing a new fee allocated to all manufacturers and importers
    of branded prescription drugs paid for pursuant to coverage
    provided under specified government programs;•including an abbreviated approval pathway for
    biosimilars; and•changing the calculation of AMP for injectable drugs not
    generally dispensed through retail community pharmacies.



Considerable uncertainty remains surrounding determinations
    necessary to implement the new legislation. For example,
    determinations as to how the Medicare coverage gap will operate
    remain to be clarified. In addition, uncertainty also exists as
    to when and how discounts will be provided to the additional
    hospitals eligible to participate under the 340B program. In
    addition, in November 2010 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
    Services (CMS) amended and then withdrew current regulations
    governing calculation of AMP; however, no replacement
    regulations have been proposed.





Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the
    federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over
    as well as those with certain disabilities. Medicare Part B
    pays physicians that administer our products under a payment
    methodology using average sales price, or ASP, information.
    Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP
    information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on
    a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is
    used to compute Medicare payment rates, which are set at ASP
    plus 6 percent and updated quarterly. There is a mechanism
    for comparison of such payment rates to widely available market
    prices, which could cause further decreases in Medicare payment
    rates, although this mechanism has yet to be utilized. Effective
    January 1, 2006, Medicare began to use the same ASP plus
    6 percent payment methodology to determine Medicare rates
    paid for products furnished by hospital outpatient departments.
    As of January 1, 2009, the





reimbursement rate in the hospital outpatient setting was ASP
    plus 4 percent. The reimbursement rate in the hospital
    outpatient setting  was increased to ASP plus 5 percent
    effective January 1, 2011. If a manufacturer is found to
    have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the
    statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000
    for each misrepresentation and for each day in which the
    misrepresentation was applied.



The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
    of 2003 established the Medicare Part D program to provide
    voluntary prescription drug benefit to enrolled Medicare
    patients. This is a voluntary benefit that is being implemented
    through private plans under contractual arrangements with the
    federal government. Like pharmaceutical coverage through private
    health insurance, Part D plans establish formularies that
    govern the drugs and biologicals that will be offered and the
    out-of-pocket obligations for such products. In addition, plans
    negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and pass on some of
    those savings to Medicare beneficiaries.



The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under
    the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we
    extend discounts under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program. The
    340B/PHS drug pricing program extends discounts to a variety of
    community health clinics and other entities that receive health
    services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a
    disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries.



We also make our products available for purchase by authorized
    users of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) of the General
    Services Administration pursuant to our FSS contract with the
    Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the Veterans Health Care
    Act of 1992 (VHC Act) we are required to offer deeply discounted
    FSS contract pricing to four Federal agencies — the
    Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the
    Coast Guard and the PHS (including the Indian Health
    Service) — for federal funding to be made available
    for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid
    program and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by
    those four Federal agencies and certain Federal grantees. FSS
    pricing to those four Federal agencies must be equal to or less
    than the “Federal Ceiling Price,” which is, at a
    minimum, 24% below the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price
    (Non-FAMP) for the prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are
    found to have knowingly submitted false information to the
    government, the VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties up
    to $100,000 per false item of information in addition to other
    penalties available to the government.



Under the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, we are
    required to treat the TRICARE retail pharmacy program, which
    reimburses military personnel for drug purchases from retail
    pharmacies, as an element of the Department of Defense to ensure
    the application of the VHC Act’s pricing standards.





Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons
    discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the
    increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement
    authorities. Further, there are an increasing number of state
    laws that require manufacturers to make reports to states on
    pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
    ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in laws and
    their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to
    the penalty provisions of the pertinent state authorities.





Future legislation or regulatory actions implementing recent or
    future legislation may have a significant effect on our
    business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products may
    depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the
    costs of our products and related treatments will be available
    in the U.S. and worldwide from government health
    administration authorities, private health insurers and other
    organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the
    reimbursement status by third party payors of newly approved
    health care products.



Other
    Regulations



Foreign
    Anti-Corruption



We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. corporations and their
    representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising,
    authorizing, or making payments of anything of value to any
    foreign government official, government staff member, political
    party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain
    business or to otherwise influence a person working in an
    official capacity. In many countries, the health care
    professionals we regularly interact with may meet the
    FCPA’s definition of a foreign government official. The
    FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and
    records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions
    and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal
    accounting controls.



In 2010, the Bribery Act was passed in the United Kingdom, which
    proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private
    sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have
    adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from
    giving bribes. U.S. corporations that conduct business in the
    United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act.
    Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited
    fines for corporations and criminal sanctions for corporate
    officers under certain circumstances.



NIH
    Guidelines



We conduct research at our U.S. facilities in compliance with
    the current U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines
    for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH
    Guidelines) and all other applicable federal and state
    regulations. By local ordinance, we are required to, among other
    things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our
    facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Research Triangle
    Park, North Carolina and are required to operate pursuant to
    certain permits.



Other
    Laws



Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws,
    regulations and recommendations relating to safe working
    conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of
    animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export
    and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
    substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious
    disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or
    may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered
    into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to
    national or international antitrust regulatory control, the
    effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government
    regulation, which might result from future legislation or
    administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

Manufacturing
    and Raw Materials



We are focused on the manufacture of biologics. The chart below
    outlines the location of our primary manufacturing locations and
    products manufactured therein.



ResearchTriangleProductPark, NCCambridge, MAThird PartyAVONEXüüTYSABRIüFUMADERMüCLINICAL PRODUCTSüüü





We currently produce all of our bulk AVONEX at our manufacturing
    facilities located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
    (RTP) and Cambridge, Massachusetts. We currently produce TYSABRI
    at our RTP facility. In April 2009, the FDA approved our high
    titer process for the production of TYSABRI. Similar approval
    was obtained from





the EMA in December 2008. Genentech is responsible for all
    worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN and has
    sourced the manufacturing of certain bulk RITUXAN requirements
    to an independent third party.



We plan to stop further validation of our large-scale
    manufacturing facility in Hillerød, Denmark following
    completion of the facility’s operational qualification
    activities in the first half of 2011 as we continue to evaluate
    our current manufacturing utilization strategy. This facility is
    intended to manufacture large molecule products. Recent
    manufacturing improvements have resulted in favorable production
    yields on TYSABRI, that along with slower than expected TYSABRI
    growth, have reduced our expected capacity requirements. As a
    result, we have decided to delay the start of manufacturing
    activities at this site until additional capacity is required by
    the business.



We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final
    product storage operations for our products, along with a
    substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated
    group of third party contractors. Many of the raw materials and
    supplies required for the production of AVONEX, TYSABRI and
    FUMADERM are available from various suppliers in quantities
    adequate to meet our needs. However, due to the unique nature of
    the production of our products, we do have single source
    providers of several raw materials. We make efforts to qualify
    new vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production
    is not impacted by short-term issues associated with single
    source providers. Each of our third party service providers,
    suppliers and manufacturers is subject to continuing inspection
    by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions. Any
    delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the
    manufacture, fill-finish, packaging or storage of our products,
    including as a result of a failure of our facilities or the
    facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory
    agency inspection, could significantly impair our ability to
    sell our products.



Important factors that could adversely affect our manufacturing
    operations are discussed in the “Risk Factors”
    section of this report.

Our
    Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    4,850 employees worldwide. We are in the process of
    completing a 13% reduction in our workforce as part of our
    framework for growth initiatives. This workforce reduction
    impacts our sales, research and development and administrative
    functions.

Our
    Executive Officers (as of February 4, 2011)



George A. Scangos

Ph.D.



Susan H. Alexander, 54, is our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and has served in these
    positions since January 2006. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander
    served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, a
    biopharmaceutical services company, since September 2003. From
    June 2001 to September 2003, Ms. Alexander served as
    General Counsel of IONA Technologies, a software company. Prior
    to that, Ms. Alexander served as Counsel at Cabot
    Corporation, a specialty chemicals and performance materials
    company, from January 1995 to May 2001. Prior to that,
    Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms of Hinckley,
    Allen & Snyder and Fine & Ambrogne.



Paul J. Clancy, 49, is our Executive Vice President,
    Finance and Chief Financial Officer and has served in these
    positions since August 2007. Mr. Clancy joined Biogen, Inc.
    in 2001 and has held several senior executive positions with us,
    including Vice President of Business Planning, Portfolio
    Management and U.S. Marketing, and Senior Vice President





of Finance with responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax,
    Investor Relations and Business Planning groups. Prior to that,
    he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, a food and beverage company,
    serving in a range of financial and general management
    positions. He holds a B.S. in finance from Babson College and a
    M.B.A. from Columbia University.



John G. Cox, 48, is our Executive Vice President,
    Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology and has served in this
    position since June 2010. Mr. Cox joined Biogen, Inc. in
    2003 and has held several senior executive positions with us,
    including Senior Vice President of Technical Operations, Senior
    Vice President of Global Manufacturing, and Vice President of
    Manufacturing and General Manager of Biogen Idec’s
    operations in RTP. Prior to that, Mr. Cox held a number of
    senior operational roles at Diosynth, a life sciences
    manufacturing and services company, where he worked in
    technology transfer, validation and purification. Prior to that,
    Mr. Cox focused on the same areas at Wyeth Corporation, a
    life sciences company, from 1993 to 2000.



Robert E. Gagnon, 36, is our Vice President, Finance,
    Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and has served in these
    positions since November 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Gagnon
    served as Vice President, Finance and Controller from July 2007
    to November 2010, and Director of Corporate Accounting from
    October 2005 to July 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Gagnon worked
    in the business advisory and assurance practices of
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
    Mr. Gagnon is a certified public accountant and holds an
    M.B.A. from the MIT Sloan School of Management.



Francesco Granata, M.D., 60, is our Executive Vice
    President, Global Commercial Operations and has served in this
    position since January 2010. Prior to that, Dr. Granata
    served as Group Vice President and President of EUCAN Region in
    the Global Pharmaceutical Business at Schering-Plough
    Corporation, a pharmaceutical company, from September 2005 to
    November 2010. Prior to that, Dr. Granata worked in
    commercial leadership positions at Pfizer, Inc., a
    pharmaceutical company, from 2003 to 2005 and at Pharmacia
    Corporation, a life sciences company, from 1999 to 2003.



Stephen H. Holtzman, 56, is our Executive Vice President,
    Corporate Development and has served in this position since
    January 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Holtzman was a founder of
    Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a drug discovery and development
    company, where he has served as Chair of the Board of Directors
    since 2001, and served as Executive Chair of the Board of
    Directors in 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer from 2001 to
    December 2009. From 1994 to 2001, Mr. Holtzman was Chief
    Business Officer at Millenium Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
    biopharmaceutical company. From 1986 to 1994, he was the
    co-founder, member of the Board of Directors and Executive Vice
    President of DNX Corporation, a biotechnology company. From 1996
    to 2001, Mr. Holtzman served as presidential appointee to
    the national Bioethics Advisory Commission.



Craig Eric Schneier, Ph.D., 63, is our Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources, Public Affairs and
    Communications and has served in this position since October
    2007. Dr. Schneier joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001 and has held
    several senior executive positions with us, including Executive
    Vice President, Human Resources and Senior Vice President,
    Strategic Organization Design and Effectiveness. Prior to that,
    Dr. Schneier was president of his own management consulting
    firm in Princeton, NJ, where he provided consulting services to
    over 70 of the Fortune 100 companies, as well as several of
    the largest European and Asian firms. Dr. Schneier held a
    tenured professorship at the University of Maryland’s Smith
    School of Business and has held teaching positions at the
    business schools of the University of Michigan, Columbia
    University, and at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth
    College.



Douglas E. Williams, Ph.D., 52, is our Executive
    Vice President, Research and Development and has served in this
    position since January 2011. Prior to that, Dr. Williams
    held several senior executive positions at ZymoGenetics Inc., a
    biopharmaceutical company, including Chief Executive Officer and
    a director from January 2009 to October 2010, President and
    Chief Scientific Officer from July 2007 to January 2009, and
    Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief
    Scientific Officer from 2004 to July 2007. Prior to that, he
    held leadership positions within the biotechnology industry,
    including Chief Scientific Officer and Executive Vice President
    of Research and Development at Seattle Genetics Inc., a
    biotechnology company, from 2003 to 2004, and Senior Vice
    President and Washington Site Leader at Amgen Inc., a
    biotechnology company, in 2002. Dr. Williams also served in
    a series of scientific and senior leadership positions over a
    decade at Immunex Corp., a biopharmaceutical company, including
    Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, Senior
    Vice President of Discovery Research, Vice President of Research
    and Development and as a director. Prior to that,
    Dr. Williams served on the faculty of the Indiana
    University School of Medicine and the Department of Laboratory
    Medicine at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, New
    York.





