
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT



                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                      MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
                         1166 Avenue of the Americas
                        New York, New York 10036-2774
                               (212) 345-5000

                        Commission file number 1-5998
                      State of Incorporation: Delaware
                I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 36-2668272

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                    on which registered 

Common Stock                                         New York Stock Exchange
  (par value $1.00 per share)                         Chicago Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       Pacific Stock Exchange
                                                       London Stock Exchange

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X.  No ___ .

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K   X.

     As of February 29, 1996, the aggregate market value of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $7,007,000,000.

     As of February 29, 1996, there were outstanding 72,912,026 shares of
common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the registrant.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
            (only to the extent set forth in the part indicated)

Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1995...................Parts I, II and IV
Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
Proxy Statement dated March 29, 1996...........Parts I and III


                       MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.

                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                                
                                   PART I

Item 1.   Business.

     Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the "registrant"), a professional
services organization with origins dating from 1871 in the United States,
through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides clients with analysis,
advice and transactional capabilities in the fields of insurance and
reinsurance broking, consulting and investment management.

     Insurance Services.  Subsidiaries and affiliates of the registrant
provide insurance (including reinsurance) services on a worldwide basis, as
broker, agent or consultant for insureds, insurance underwriters and other
brokers.  They also provide insurance program management services involving
a wide range of insurance and related products for individuals and others
through both sponsored and non-sponsored affinity group programs in the
United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, and other services in
connection with originating, structuring and managing investments in both
new and existing insurers.

     Risk management and insurance broking services, carried on throughout
the world principally by Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated and its subsidiaries
and affiliates, are provided for a predominantly corporate clientele engaged
in a broad range of commercial activities.  Clients also include various
government and related agencies, non-profit organizations and individuals. 
Such services are provided primarily in connection with the risk management
and the insurance placement processes, and involve various types of property
and liability loss exposures.  Services include insurance broking activities
and professional counseling services on risk management issues, including
risk analysis, coverage requirements, self-insurance, and alternative
insurance and risk financing methods, as well as claims collection, injury
management, loss prevention and other insurance related services.  Services
also include organization and administrative services for special purpose
insurance companies and other risk assumption alternatives.  Insurance
coverage is placed on behalf of clients with insurers directly or through
wholesale brokers.  Correspondent relationships are maintained with
unaffiliated firms in certain countries.

     Reinsurance services are provided to insurance and reinsurance risk takers
worldwide, principally by Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries
and affiliates. Such services primarily involve acting as an intermediary for
insurance and reinsurance organizations on all classes of reinsurance.  The
intermediary assists the insurance underwriter by providing advice, placing
reinsurance coverage with reinsurance organizations located around the world,
and furnishing related services. The insurance underwriting organization may
seek reinsurance or other risk-transfer financing on all or a portion of the
risks it insures.  Intermediary services are also provided to reinsurance

underwriters, who may also seek reinsurance on the risks they have
underwritten.

     Seabury & Smith, Inc. and its subsidiaries provide insurance program
management services (including the design, placement and administration of
life, health, accident, disability, automobile, homeowners, professional
liability and other insurance and related products) primarily on a group
marketing basis to individuals, businesses and their employees, and
organizations and their members in the United States and Canada, and also in
the United Kingdom.  It also provides underwriting management services to
insurers in these countries.  The Frizzell Group Limited and its
subsidiaries provide motor and household insurances, life insurance and
personal financial planning, and consumer finance services, including
insurance premium financing programs, personal and secured loans, mortgage
loans and credit cards, to members of affinity groups in the United Kingdom.
On February 7, 1996, the Company signed an agreement that is expected to
lead to the sale of Frizzell for approximately $289 million.  The
transaction, which is subject to various regulatory and other approvals, is
expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 1996.
 
     Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp. ("MMRCC") provides services in
connection with originating, structuring and managing investments in both new
and existing insurers.  It is an advisor to The Trident Partnership L.P., an
independent private investment partnership formed in 1994 to invest selectively
in the global insurance and reinsurance industry.  It is also an advisor to Risk
Capital Reinsurance Company, a U.S. reinsurer formed in 1995 to provide
traditional and other kinds of reinsurance, both on a stand-alone basis and as
part of integrated capital solutions for insurance companies.  MMRCC and its
predecessor operations were instrumental in the formation of several substantial
insurance and reinsurance entities, including A.C.E. Insurance Company, Ltd.,
X.L. Insurance Company, Ltd., and Mid Ocean Reinsurance Company Ltd., to
alleviate, in part, capacity shortages in critical segments of the insurance
and reinsurance business.  MMRCC also advises Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital
Holdings, Ltd. regarding its ownership holding in certain insurance and
reinsurance entities and funds, primarily ones initiated by MMRCC.

     The revenue attributable to the registrant's insurance services
consists primarily of fees paid by clients; commissions and fees paid by
insurance and reinsurance underwriters; interest income on premiums and, in
certain cases, on claims collected and not yet remitted to insurers,
reinsurers or clients, such funds being held in a fiduciary capacity; and
compensation for services provided in connection with the formation and
capitalization of various insurers and reinsurers, including fees, royalties
and dividends as well as gains from sales of holdings in such entities.  The
investment of fiduciary funds is governed by the applicable laws or
regulations of insurance supervisory authorities of the states in the United
States and in other jurisdictions in which the registrant's subsidiaries do
business.  These laws and regulations typically limit the investments that
may be made with such funds.  The general amount of funds invested and
interest rates can vary from time to time.

     Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or
reinsurance coverage provided, the particular underwriter, and the capacity
in which the registrant acts, in addition to negotiations with clients. 

Commissions may also be received contingent on factors such as the volume
and profitability to the underwriter of the business placed with it by the
registrant during specific periods.  Claims services are sometimes performed
for policies placed several years previously.

     The insurance broking industry is affected by premium rate levels in the
property and casualty insurance industry and  available insurance capacity, as
compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds.  Revenue
is also affected by  fluctuations in retained limits, insured values and
interest rates, the development of new products, markets and services, and the
volume of business from new and existing clients.

     Consulting.  Through Mercer Consulting Group, Inc., subsidiaries and
affiliates of the registrant, separately and in collaboration, provide
consulting services to a predominantly corporate clientele from locations
around the world primarily in the areas of human resources and employee
benefit programs, including retirement, health care and compensation
consulting, and general management consulting.  

     William M. Mercer Companies, Inc. provides professional advice and
services to corporate, government and institutional clients from offices
worldwide helping organizations design, implement, administer and
communicate retirement, compensation and other human resource programs.  In
addition, Mercer advises the managements of health care providers on various
business issues, including operational reengineering, improving clinical
effectiveness and establishing strategic partnerships.  Mercer also provides
a facility for clients wishing to outsource certain human resource functions
as well as for the administration of defined contribution plans.

     Mercer Management Consulting, Inc. provides advice and assistance on
strategic issues, primarily to large corporations in North America, Europe
and Asia particularly in the areas of strategy, growth, change, operations
and marketing.  Mercer Management Consulting helps its clients to develop
and execute business strategies.  In addition, under the Lippincott &
Margulies name, Mercer Management Consulting provides marketing services
relating to brand and corporate identity, as well as image.

     National Economic Research Associates, Inc. ("NERA"), a firm of
consulting economists, provides advice to law firms, corporations, trade
associations and governmental agencies, from offices principally in the
United States and England.  NERA's research and analysis addresses a broad
range of micro-economic issues in areas of business and public policy.

     The major component of Mercer Consulting Group's revenue is fees paid
by clients for advice in the areas noted above.  In addition, commission
revenue is received from insurance underwriters for the placement of
individual and group insurance contracts.

     Revenue in the consulting business is affected by new products and
services, the degree of regulatory change, changes involving its clients'
industries, and the demand for consulting services.

     Investment Management.  Investment management and related services are

provided by Putnam Investments, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

     Putnam provides individual and institutional investors with a  broad
range of equity and fixed income investment products and services designed
to meet varying investment objectives.  Putnam's investment management
services, which are performed principally in the United States, include
securities investment advisory and management services consisting of
investment research and management, accounting and related services for a
group of publicly-held investment companies registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, including closed-end investment companies whose shares
are traded on various stock exchanges (the "Putnam Funds").   Investment
management services are also provided to profit sharing and pension funds,
state retirement systems, university endowment funds, charitable
foundations, collective investment vehicles and other domestic and foreign
institutional accounts.  A Putnam subsidiary also serves as transfer agent,
dividend disbursing agent, registrar and custodian for the Putnam Funds and
provides one or more of such services to several external clients, and also
provides trustee services for IRA's, corporate retirement plans and other
clients.  A Putnam subsidiary also acts as principal underwriter of the
shares of the open-end Putnam Funds, selling primarily through
independent broker/dealers and financial institutions, including banks,
and also directly to certain large 401(k) plans and other
institutional accounts.

     Revenue attributable to Putnam is derived primarily from investment
management fees.  The investment management services provided to the Putnam
Funds and institutional accounts are performed pursuant to advisory
contracts which provide for a fee payable to the Putnam company that manages
the account.  The amount of the fee varies depending on the individual
mutual fund or account and the level of assets under management and, in the
case of certain institutional accounts, is also based on investment
performance.  Such contracts may not be assigned by the Putnam company
managing the account, generally may be terminated without penalty and, as to
contracts with the Putnam Funds, continue in effect only so long as
approved, at least annually, by their shareholders or by the Putnam Funds'
trustees, including a majority who are not affiliated with Putnam.

     A Putnam subsidiary also receives compensation from the Putnam Funds
for providing shareholder services pursuant to written agreements which may
be terminated by either party on 90 days' notice, and for providing custody
services pursuant to a written agreement which may be terminated by either
party on 30 days' notice.  These contracts generally provide for
compensation on the basis of several factors which vary with the type of
service being provided.  

     Putnam markets its mutual funds through broker/dealers, financial
planners and financial institutions including banks.  Shares of the open-end
funds are generally sold at their respective net asset value per share plus
a sales charge, which varies depending on the individual fund and the amount
purchased. Commissions paid to broker/dealers are typically paid at the time
of the purchase as a percentage of the amount invested.  Essentially all
Putnam Funds are available with a deferred sales charge in lieu of a front-
end load.  The related pre-paid dealer commissions initially paid by Putnam
to broker/dealers for distributing such funds are recovered through charges

and fees received over a number of years.

     Nearly all of the Putnam Funds have adopted distribution plans pursuant
to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 under which the
Putnam Funds make payments to a Putnam subsidiary to cover costs relating to
distribution of the Putnam Funds and services provided to shareholders. 
These payments either are paid by the Putnam subsidiary directly to firms
that distribute shares of the Putnam Funds for the costs of providing
services to shareholders or are retained by the Putnam subsidiary as
compensation for the costs of services provided by Putnam to shareholders
and for commissions advanced by Putnam at the point of sale (and recovered
through fees received over time) to firms that distribute shares of the
Putnam Funds.  These distribution plans, and payments made by the Putnam
Funds thereunder, are subject to annual renewal by the trustees of the
Putnam Funds and to termination by vote of the shareholders of the Putnam
Funds or by vote of a majority of the Putnam Funds' trustees who are not
affiliated with Putnam.

     Assets managed by Putnam, on which management fees are based, were
approximately $125.7 billion and $95.3 billion as of December 31, 1995 and
1994, respectively.  Mutual fund assets aggregated $93.4 billion at December
31, 1995 and $67.2 billion at December 31, 1994.  Assets under management at
December 31, 1995 consisted of approximately 51% equity securities and 49%
fixed income products, invested both domestically and globally.  Assets
under management and revenue levels are affected by fluctuations in domestic
and international bond and stock market prices, and by the level of
investments and withdrawals for current and new fund shareholders and
clients, by the development and marketing of new investment products, and by
investment performance and service to clients.

     Regulation.  The activities of the registrant are subject to licensing
requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the United States
and its various states, territories and possessions, as well as laws of
other countries in which the registrant's subsidiaries operate.  

     While these laws and regulations vary among jurisdictions, every state
of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require an insurance
broker or agent (and in some cases a reinsurance broker or intermediary) to
have a license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. 
In addition, certain of the registrant's insurance activities are governed
by the rules of the Lloyd's insurance market in London and self-regulatory
organizations in other jurisdictions.  A few jurisdictions issue licenses
only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities.  In some of
these jurisdictions, if the registrant has no licensed subsidiary, the
registrant may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities
licensed to act in such jurisdiction.  In some jurisdictions, various
insurance related taxes may also be due either by clients directly or from
the broker.  In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client
for payment.

     No licensing or other regulatory requirements material in the aggregate
to the consulting activities of the registrant apply to that activity in
general; however, the subject matter of certain consulting services may
result in regulation.  For example, employee benefit plans are subject to

various governmental regulations and services on insurance or investment
matters may subject the registrant to insurance or investment and securities
regulations in various jurisdictions.

     Putnam's securities investment management activities are subject to
regulation in the United States by the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and other federal, state and self regulatory authorities, as well as in
certain other countries in which it does business.

     The registrant's business depends on the validity of, and its continued
good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which it
operates, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations.  The registrant
therefore devotes significant effort toward maintaining its licenses and to
ensuring compliance with a diverse and complex regulatory structure. 
However, in all jurisdictions the applicable laws and regulations are
subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. 
Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to
grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement
regulations, and licenses may be denied or revoked for various reasons,
including the violation of such regulations, conviction of crimes and the
like.  In some instances, the registrant follows practices based on its
interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or
regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory
authorities.  Accordingly, the possibility exists that the registrant may be
precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of its
activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction.

     No assurances can be given that the registrant's insurance, consulting
or investment management activities can continue to be conducted in any
given jurisdiction as in the past.

     Competitive Conditions.  The insurance and reinsurance broking services
provided by the registrant are believed to be the largest of their type in
the world.  Mercer Consulting Group, one of a few large global consulting
firms in the world, is a market leader in human resources, employee
benefits, compensation and general management consulting services.  Putnam
Investments is one of the largest investment management firms in the United
States.

     The registrant encounters strong competition in the insurance and
consulting businesses from other companies which also operate on a
nationwide or worldwide basis and from a large number of regional and local
firms.  Some insurance and reinsurance underwriters market and service their
insurance products without the assistance of brokers, agents or program
managers.

     The investment management business is also highly competitive.  In
addition to competition from firms already in the investment management
business, there is competition from other firms offering financial services,
such as commercial banks and insurance companies, as well as other
investment alternatives.  Many securities dealers and commercial banks also
sponsor competing proprietary mutual funds.

     Principal methods of competition in these businesses include the

services and the quality thereof that a broker, consultant or investment
manager provides its clients and the cost thereof.  These businesses also
encounter strong competition from both public corporations and private firms
in attracting and retaining qualified employees.

     Segmentation.  Financial information relating to the types of services
provided by the registrant and the geographic areas of its operations is
incorporated herein by reference to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 45 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report").  The registrant's
non-U.S. operations are subject to the customary risks involved in doing
business in other countries, such as currency fluctuations and exchange
controls.

     Employees.  As of December 31, 1995, the registrant and its
consolidated subsidiaries employed about 27,000 people worldwide, of whom
approximately 14,800 were employed by subsidiaries providing insurance
services, approximately 8,800 were employed by subsidiaries providing
consulting services, approximately 3,100 were employed by subsidiaries
providing investment management services and approximately 300 were employed
by the registrant.

     Executive Officers of the Registrant.  The executive officers of the
registrant as of December 31, 1995 are Messrs. Blum, Borelli, Coster,
Holbrook, Lasser, Sinnott, Smith and Wroughton, with respect to whom
information is incorporated herein by reference to the Notice of Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 29, 1996 (the "1996
Proxy Statement"), and:

     Francis N. Bonsignore, age 49, who was elected Senior Vice President-Human
Resources & Administration of the registrant in 1990.  Immediately prior
thereto, he was partner and National Director-Human Resources for Price
Waterhouse.

     Gregory F. Van Gundy, age 50, who is Secretary and General Counsel of the
registrant.  He joined the registrant in 1974.

Item 2.   Properties.

     The registrant and four of its subsidiaries, as tenants in common, own a
56% condominium interest in a 44-story building in New York City which serves as
their worldwide headquarters.  The  principal offices of the registrant's
Bowring subsidiaries in London are located in two adjoining buildings under a
lease which expires in 2077.

     The remaining business activities of the registrant and its
subsidiaries are conducted principally in leased office space in cities
throughout the world.  No difficulty is anticipated in negotiating renewals
as leases expire or in finding other satisfactory space if the premises
become unavailable.  From time to time, the registrant may have unused space
and may seek to sublet such space to third parties, depending upon the
demands for office space in the locations involved.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.


     The registrant and its subsidiaries are subject to claims and lawsuits
that arise in the ordinary course of business, consisting principally of
alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance
or reinsurance and in rendering consulting and investment services.  Some of
these claims and lawsuits seek damages, including punitive damages, in
amounts which could, if assessed, be significant.  Information regarding
disputes involving run-off reinsurance contract placements primarily in the
Lloyd's market and relating to advice with respect to client purchases of
guaranteed investment contracts and annuities issued by Executive Life
Insurance Company are incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 44 of the 1995 Annual
Report.

     On the basis of present information, available insurance coverage and
advice received from counsel, it is the opinion of the registrant's
management that the disposition or ultimate determination of these claims
and lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the registrant's
consolidated results of operations or its consolidated financial position. 

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     None.

                                   PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters.

     Market and dividend information regarding the registrant's common stock
on page 47 of the 1995 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.

     The selected financial data on pages 48 and 49 of the 1995 Annual
Report are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.

     Information on pages 23 through 29 of the 1995 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

     The Consolidated Financial Statements and the Report of Independent
Auditors thereto on pages 30 through 46 of the 1995 Annual Report and
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page 47 of the 1995 Annual
Report are incorporated herein by reference.  Supplemental Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are included on pages 17 and 18 hereof.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure.

     None.


                                  PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Information as to the directors of the registrant is incorporated
herein by reference to the material under the heading "Directors" in the
1996 Proxy Statement.  Information as to the executive officers of the
registrant is set forth in Item 1 above.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

     Information under the headings "Executive Compensation", "Compensation
Committee Report" and "Comparison of Cumulative Total Stockholder Return" in
the 1996 Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     Information under the heading "Security Ownership" in the 1996 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     Information under the headings "Employment Agreements" and
"Transactions with Management and Others; Other Information" in the 1996
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


                                   PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

     (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

          1.   Consolidated Financial Statements (incorporated herein by
               reference to pages 30 through 46 of the 1995 Annual Report):

                    Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years
                    ended December 31, 1995

                    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 
                    December 31, 1995 and 1994

                    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three
                    years ended December 31, 1995

                    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
                    three years ended December 31, 1995

                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                    Report of Independent Auditors

               Supplemental Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

               Report of Independent Auditors

               Other:

                    Selected Quarterly Financial Data and Supplemental
                    Information (Unaudited) for the three years ended
                    December 31, 1995 (incorporated herein by reference to
                    page 47  of the 1995 Annual Report)

                    Ten-Year Statistical Summary of Operations (incorporated
                    herein by reference to pages 48 and 49 of the 1995
                    Annual Report)

          2.   All required Financial Statement Schedules are included in
               the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Notes to
               Consolidated Financial Statements or the Supplemental Notes
               to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          3.   The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

          (3)  -the registrant's restated certificate of
                incorporation

               -the registrant's by-laws

          (10)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 1992 Incentive and         
                Stock Award Plan
 
               -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Restricted Shares Voluntary
                Deferral Program for U.S. Employees 


* All items in this Exhibit 10 are either management contracts or compensatory
plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.
               -Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock Investment      
                Supplemental Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies Special Severance Pay
                Plan

               -Putnam Investments, Inc. Executive Deferred                
                Compensation Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies Supplemental               
                Retirement Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies Senior Management
                Incentive Compensation Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 1995 U.S.
                Employee Cash Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 1995 Canadian             
                Employee Cash Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

               -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Directors Stock
                Compensation Plan

               -Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between
                Robert Clements and Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital
                Corp. and related Guaranty of the registrant

               -Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment               
                Agreement between Robert Clements and Marsh &
                McLennan Risk Capital Corp. and related Guaranty 
                of the registrant

               -Employment Agreement between Jeffrey W. Greenberg
                and Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp. and                
                related Guaranty of the registrant

          (13) -Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
                ended December 31, 1995, to be deemed filed
                only with respect to those portions which are
                expressly incorporated by reference

          (21) -list of subsidiaries of the registrant

          (23) -consent of independent auditors

          (24) -powers of attorney

          (27) -Financial Data Schedule (filed only with SEC
                for EDGAR purposes)


     (b)  No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant in the fiscal
          quarter ended December 31, 1995.


                                SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed this 27th day of March, 1996 on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
                              MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.

                              By /s/ A.J.C. SMITH             
                              A.J.C. SMITH
                              Chairman of the Board
                              and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated this 27th day of March, 1996.

/s/A.J.C. SMITH                      LEWIS W. BERNARD*             
A.J.C. SMITH                         LEWIS W. BERNARD
Director, Chairman of the Board      Director
and Chief Executive Officer             


/s/FRANK J. BORELLI                  RICHARD H. BLUM*             
FRANK J. BORELLI                     RICHARD H. BLUM
Senior Vice President and            Director
Chief Financial Officer,
Director            


/s/DOUGLAS C. DAVIS                  ROBERT CLEMENTS*             
DOUGLAS C. DAVIS                     ROBERT CLEMENTS
Vice President and Controller        Director
(Chief Accounting Officer)

PETER COSTER*                        RICHARD M. MORROW*           
PETER COSTER                         RICHARD M. MORROW
Director                             Director

RAY J. GROVES*                       GEORGE PUTNAM*               
RAY J. GROVES                        GEORGE PUTNAM
Director                             Director

RICHARD E. HECKERT*                  ADELE SMITH SIMMONS*          
RICHARD E. HECKERT                   ADELE SMITH SIMMONS      
Director                             Director                      

RICHARD S. HICKOK*                   JOHN T. SINNOTT*              
RICHARD S. HICKOK                    JOHN T. SINNOTT
Director                             Director  

DAVID D. HOLBROOK*                   FRANK J. TASCO*               
DAVID D. HOLBROOK                    FRANK J. TASCO 
Director                             Director  


ROBERT M.G. HUSSON*                  R. J. VENTRES*               
ROBERT M.G. HUSSON                   R. J. VENTRES
Director                             Director

LAWRENCE J. LASSER*                PHILIP L. WROUGHTON*         
LAWRENCE J. LASSER                 PHILIP L. WROUGHTON
Director                           Director

- ------------------
     *Gregory F. Van Gundy, pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed by each
of the individuals whose name is followed by an (*) and filed herewith, by
signing his name hereto does hereby sign and execute this Form l0-K of Marsh
& McLennan Companies, Inc. on behalf of such individual in the capacities in
which the names of each appear above.



                                    /s/GREGORY F. VAN GUNDY      
                                    GREGORY F. VAN GUNDY


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 29, 1996, which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph referring to the
adoption of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112 in 1994 and
No. 115 in 1993.  Such financial statements and report are included in your
1995 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference. 
Our audits also included the amounts included in the supplemental notes to
the consolidated financial statements (the "Notes") included herein.  These
Notes are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our
opinion, such Notes, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
February 29, 1996


               MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            SUPPLEMENTAL NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15.  Information concerning the Company's valuation accounts
     follows.

An analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts for the three years ended
December 31, 1995 follows (in millions of dollars):

                                         1995    1994      1993

Balance at beginning of year........... $52.2   $50.9     $50.9
Provision charged to operations........  12.8    11.6       8.8
Accounts written-off, net of
  recoveries........................... (10.5)  (11.3)     (7.7)
Effect of exchange rate changes........    .1     1.2       (.6)
Other..................................     -     (.2)      (.5)
                                        -----   -----     -----
Balance at end of year (A)............. $54.6   $52.2     $50.9
                                        =====   =====     =====
     (A)  Includes allowance for doubtful accounts related to long-term
          consumer finance receivables amounting to $6.3 million in 1995,
          $7.3 million in 1994 and $8.0 million in 1993.   

An analysis of the valuation allowance for certain foreign deferred tax
assets as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 follows (in millions of
dollars):
                                         1995    1994      1993

Balance at beginning of year........... $24.7   $23.6     $21.6
Provision..............................     -      .5       1.7
Effect of exchange rate changes........    .5      .6        .3 
                                        -----   -----     -----
Balance at end of year (A)............. $25.2   $24.7     $23.6
                                        =====   =====     =====
     (A)  Included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

16.  An analysis of intangible assets at December 31, 1995 and 1994 follows
     (in millions of dollars):
                                          1995    1994 

Goodwill .............................. $787.4  $736.9     
Other intangible assets................   92.3    87.4
                                        ------  ------
  Subtotal.............................  879.7   824.3
Less - accumulated amortization ....... (150.0) (123.3)
                                        ------  ------
     Total............................. $729.7  $701.0
                                        ======  ======

               MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            SUPPLEMENTAL NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17.  Per share data, as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income,
     is computed by using the average number of shares of the Company's
     common stock outstanding. Common stock equivalents (relating
     principally to stock options), which have been excluded from the
     calculation because their dilutive effect is immaterial, are shown
     below for the three years ended December 31, 1995 (in millions of
     shares).

                                1995      1994      1993

  Primary                         .8        .7       1.0
                                 ===       ===       ===          
  Fully Diluted                  1.1        .7       1.0
                                 ===       ===       ===          



                               EXHIBIT INDEX
                                                            Page number in  
                                                            sequential      
                                                            numbering system

(3)  -the registrant's restated
      certificate of incorporation
      (incorporated by reference to 
      the registrant's Annual Report
      on Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 1987)

    -the registrant's by-laws 
     (incorporated by reference to the 
      registrant's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the year ended 
      December 31, 1994)

(10) -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.  
      1992 Incentive and Stock Award Plan
      
     -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Restricted 
      Shares Voluntary Deferral Program for U.S. 
      Employees 

     -Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock  
      Investment Supplemental Plan   
      (incorporated by reference to the 
      registrant's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the year ended 
      December 31, 1994)

     -Marsh & McLennan Companies Special
      Severance Pay Plan (incorporated by
      reference to the registrant's Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
      December 31, 1992)

     -Putnam Investments, Inc. Executive   
      Deferred Compensation Plan
      (incorporated by reference to the 
      registrant's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the year ended 
      December 31, 1994)

     -Marsh & McLennan Companies
      Supplemental Retirement Plan 
      (incorporated by reference to
      the registrant's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the year ended         
      December 31, 1992)


  EXHIBIT INDEX (cont'd)
                                                            Page number in  
                                                            sequential      
                                                            numbering system


    -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
     U.S. Employee 1995 Cash Bonus
      Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

    -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
     Canadian Employee 1995 Cash Bonus
      Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

    -Amended and Restated Employment 
     Agreement between Robert Clements
     and Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital
      Corp. and related Guaranty of the 
      registrant (incorporated by reference
      to the registrant's Annual Report
     on Form 10-K for the year ended
     December 31, 1994)

     -Amendment to Amended and Restated
      Employment Agreement between Robert
      Clements and Marsh & McLennan Risk
      Capital Corp. and related Guaranty
      of the Registrant

     -Employment Agreement by and between
      Jeffrey W. Greenberg and Marsh & 
      McLennan Risk Capital Corp. and 
      related Guaranty of the registrant

     -Marsh & McLennan Companies Senior 
      Management Incentive Compensation Plan
      (incorporated by reference to the 
      registrant's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the year ended 
      December 31, 1994)

     -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 
      Directors Stock Compensation Plan

(13) -Annual Report to Stockholders for the
      year ended December 31, 1995, to be
      deemed filed only with respect to
      those portions which are expressly
      incorporated by reference

(21) -list of subsidiaries of the  
      registrant 


         EXHIBIT INDEX (cont'd)
                                                            Page number in  
                                                            sequential      
                                                            numbering system



(23) -consent of independent auditors     

(24) -powers of attorney   

(27) -Financial Data Schedule (filed only
      with SEC for EDGAR purposes)


