
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
================================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
     [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
          For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                                       OR

     [_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
          For the transition period from ________________ to ______________
          Commission file number 1-2376

                                FMC CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                      94-0479804
           --------                                   ----------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois                       60601
------------------------------------------                   -------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  312/861-6000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     Name of each exchange
Title of each class                   on which registered
-------------------                  ---------------------

Common Stock, $0.10 par value        New York Stock Exchange 
                                     Midwest Stock Exchange
                                     Pacific Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights      New York Stock Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

 
          INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL
REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS, AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

YES [X]           NO [ ]

          INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO
ITEM 405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO
THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY
AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.  [X]

          THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF
THE REGISTRANT AS OF MARCH 2, 1995, WAS $2,154,434,767.  THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF
REGISTRANT' COMMON STOCK, $0.10 PAR VALUE, OUTSTANDING AS OF THAT DATE WAS
36,543,835.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

DOCUMENT                        FOR 10-K REFERENCE
--------                        ------------------

Portions of Annual Report       Part II; Part III, Item 10; and Part IV, 
 to Stockholders for 1994       Item (a)(1)(2)

Portions of Proxy               Part III
 Statement for 1995 Annual
 Meeting of Stockholders

===============================================================================

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

A.   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

FMC Corporation was incorporated in 1928 under Delaware law and has its
principal executive offices at 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois
60601.  As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by
the context, "FMC", "the Company" or "the Registrant" means FMC Corporation and
its consolidated subsidiaries and their predecessors.

Restructuring and other charges.  In 1993, FMC recorded pretax restructuring and
other charges of $172.3 million, net of minority interest (after-tax $123.3
million, or $3.34 per share).  These charges primarily related to restructuring
costs associated with the Machinery and Equipment and Industrial Chemical
segments, expenses to restructure companywide functional support staffs, as well
as a write-down of the investment in the Beartrack development property in the
Precious Metals segment.  The restructuring program was designed to reduce costs
and improve operating efficiencies.

During 1994, FMC carried out a number of actions consistent with the 1993
restructuring plan.   Employee positions were eliminated, manufacturing
facilities were consolidated and unprofitable product lines were exited.

The restructuring reserve remaining at December 31, 1994, is expected  to cover
spending associated with the remaining work force reductions, downsizing and
other restructuring related costs.

Acquisitions.  On June 24, 1994, the Company acquired the Fluid Control Systems
product line from National-Oilwell, a Houston-based oil field equipment company.
The Fluid Control Systems product line is a leader in a variety of high-
performance oil field applications, including engineered production and
injection manifolds, a family of valves and fittings used to control and
distribute the flow of production from oil and gas wells.  Fluid Control Systems
will be part of the Fluid Control Division within the Energy and Transportation
Equipment Group.

On May 27, 1994, the Company acquired the Jetway Systems Division of Pneumo-Abex
Inc. Jetway is a leader in design, production and installation of  passenger
boarding bridges and other aircraft support systems.  Jetway Systems will be
part of the Airport Products and Systems Division within the Energy and
Transportation Equipment Group.

On June 30, 1993, the Company acquired the assets of Kongsberg Offshore a.s., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Siemens a.s. Kongsberg Offshore a.s. provides subsea
and metering systems on a worldwide basis as well as turnkey subsea systems,
including systems integration, project management and FMC subsea products.

 
Also on June 30, 1993, the Company acquired SOFEC, Inc., a Houston-based
engineering and construction company.  SOFEC, Inc. designs, fabricates and
installs offshore mooring systems for export and import terminals and for
floating storage and production facilities for offshore oil and gas.

The Company also completed a number of other smaller acquisitions and joint
ventures during the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

During 1992, the Company acquired the worldwide flame retardants and fluids, and
water treatment chemicals businesses of Ciba-Geigy Additives Division (Ciba-
Geigy), with annual sales of approximately $150 million.

In 1991, the Company acquired the airplane wing deicer business of The Trump
Companies, Inc.  The 1991 consolidated results were not significantly affected
by this acquisition.

In 1990,  FMC Gold Company, a subsidiary of the Company, acquired all of the
stock of Meridian Gold Company from a subsidiary of Burlington Resources, Inc.,
for 8 million shares of authorized but previously unissued FMC Gold Company
common stock.  The acquired net assets were recorded at $56.7 million based on
the estimated market value of the shares issued.  As a result of the stock
issuance, the Company's ownership interest in FMC Gold Company was reduced to 79
percent from 89 percent.  In 1994, the Company purchased additional shares of
FMC Gold Company on the open market, bringing its ownership interest to 80
percent.  The results of operations of the acquired properties are included in
the consolidated financial statements of FMC Corporation effective after the
acquisition date of May 15, 1990.

Also during 1990, the Company acquired full ownership of Electro Quimica
Mexicana, S.A. from Interindustrias, S.A. for $12.3 million, net of cash
acquired.  FMC had previously held a 49 percent ownership interest in this
producer of hydrogen peroxide and ammonium persulfate.  The phaseout of the
Company's fire apparatus business was also completed during 1990.  Neither this
acquisition nor the phaseout significantly affected the 1990 consolidated
results of operations.
 
The purchase prices for the aforementioned acquisitions were satisfied from cash
flow from operations and long-term financing.  The Company has accounted for
these acquisitions by the purchase method.  These acquisitions did not have a
material impact on the consolidated results of operations.

Formation of United Defense, L.P.  On January 28, 1994, FMC and Harsco
Corporation ("Harsco") announced completion of a series of agreements, first
announced in December 1992, to combine certain assets and liabilities of FMC's
Defense Systems Group ("DSG") and Harsco's BMY Combat Systems Division ("BMY").
The effective date of the combination was January 1, 1994.  The combined
company, United Defense, L.P. 

 
("UDLP"), operates as a limited partnership, with FMC as the Managing General
Partner with a 60 percent equity interest and Harsco Defense Holding as the
Limited Partner holding a 40 percent equity interest.

Beginning in the first quarter 1994, all sales and earnings of UDLP are included
in FMC's consolidated financial statements.  The limited partner's share of the
partnership's earnings is included in minority interest.  Sales and profits for
1994 versus 1993 are affected by the formation of the venture.  All of the
assets and liabilities of UDLP are also consolidated in the balance sheet at
December 31, 1994 resulting in increases to trade receivables, inventories,
property, plant and equipment, other assets, accounts payable, and minority
interests compared to December 31, 1993.

A description of the principal products and services and the major markets
served by each industry segment is included under "Narrative description of
business."

B.   FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS):

_______________________

*  Certain chemical products with high value-added content and specialty
applications that formerly had been included in the Industrial Chemicals segment
have been reclassified to the Performance Chemicals segment.  Results for both
Industrial and Performance Chemicals have been restated for comparative
reporting purposes.

(1)  Defense System's segment data includes 100 percent of United Defense, L.P.
     in 1994.  Precious Metals' segment data includes 100 percent of FMC Gold
     Company in 1990 through 1994.  Minority shareholder interests are included
     in Minority Interest, except the portion related to 1993 restructuring and
     other charges.

 

-------------

*Certain chemical products with high value-added content and specialty
applications that formerly had been included in the Industrial Chemicals segment
have been reclassified to the Performance Chemicals segment.  Results for both
Industrial and Performance Chemicals have been restated for comparative
reporting purposes.

(1)  Defense System's segment data includes 100 percent of United Defense, L.P.
     in 1994.  Precious Metals' segment data includes 100 percent of FMC Gold
     Company in 1990 through 1994.  Minority shareholder interests are included
     in Minority Interest, except the portion related to 1993 restructuring and
     other charges.

(2)  Restructuring and other charges related to 1993 are described in Note 2 to
     the consolidated financial statements and are related to Machinery and
     Equipment ($66.0 million).  Precious Metals ($47.9 million, net of minority
     interest), Industrial Chemicals ($29.7 million), Performance Chemicals
     ($3.2 million), and Corporate ($25.5 million).

(3)  Other income and (expense), net includes LIFO inventory adjustments and
     pension-related income.

 
C.           NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

Principal Products
------------------

FMC manufactures and sells a broad range of machinery and chemical products.
FMC's machinery products are marketed principally to industrial, agricultural
and defense users.  Its chemical products are mainly industrial and agricultural
chemicals.  The Company conducts its business within the five industry segments
identified in b, above.  Generally, in all of the segments, FMC competes on the
basis of price and product performance.

Information regarding principal products produced and sold by each industry
segment and principal markets served by each segment is presented in the columns
so designated in the segment table presented below.  These products are sold
directly to customers from plants and warehouses, as well as being sold in some
cases (particularly in markets outside the United States) to and through
distributors.
 
  Business Unit               Principal Products          Markets Served
  -------------               ------------------          --------------     
 
PERFORMANCE CHEMICALS
---------------------
 
AGRICULTURAL                 Produces crop protection    Food growers, pest
PRODUCTS                     and pest control            control markets.
GROUP                        chemicals for worldwide
                             markets
 
 
FOOD                         Worldwide producer of       Processed food
INGREDIENTS                  carrageenan and Avicel      industry, personal
DIVISION                     cellulose gel.              care products.
 
 
PHARMACEUTICAL               Worldwide producer of       Pharmaceutical
DIVISION                     micro-crystalline           industry.
                             cellulose.  Produces
                             other specialty chemicals
                             for pharmaceutical
                             markets.
 
BIOPRODUCTS                  Worldwide producer of       Life science research;
                             agarose and other           DNA and protein
                             products for life science   analysis
                             markets.

 
  Business Unit               Principal Products          Markets Served
  -------------               ------------------          --------------     
 
LITHIUM                      World's largest           Aluminum, ceramics and
DIVISION                     producer of               glass, lubricating
                             lithium-based products.   greases, swimming pools,
                                                       textiles, aluminum
                                                       alloys, batteries,
                                                       rubber and plastic, air
                                                       conditioning,
                                                       pharmaceuticals.
 
 
PROCESS                      A leading world           Plastics, hydraulic
ADDITIVES                    producer of phosphate     fluids, lubricant
DIVISION                     ester flame retardants.   additives, industrial
                             Leading supplier of       water treatment and
                             specialty water           desalination.
                             treatment chemicals.
 
 
 
 
 
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
--------------------
 
ALKALI                       World's largest           Glass-making, chemicals,
CHEMICALS                    producer of natural       detergents, food
DIVISION                     soda ash.  Downstream     products, animal feed,
                             products include sodium   additives, mining,
                             bicarbonate, sodium       air/water treatment,
                             cyanide, sodium           pulp and paper.
                             sesquicarbonate and
                             caustic soda.
 
 
PEROXYGEN                    A leading worldwide       Pulp and paper,
CHEMICALS                    producer of hydrogen      textiles, chemical and
DIVISION                     peroxide, persulfates     polymer synthesis,
                             and other peroxygen       environmental clean-up,
                             chemicals.                electronics, detergents.
 
 
PHOSPHORUS                   A worldwide supplier      Detergents, cleaning
CHEMICALS                    and North American        compounds, metal
DIVISION                     producer of phosphorus    treatment, food
                             and its derivatives,      products, textiles,
                             phosphates and            pesticide intermediates,
                             phosphoric acid.          additives,
                                                       pharmaceuticals, water
                                                       treatment.

 
  Business Unit               Principal Products          Markets Served
  -------------               ------------------          --------------     

FMC FORET, S.A.              A European chemical      Chemicals, detergents,
                             producer.  Products      pulp and paper, textiles,
                             include hydrogen         glass, mining, rubber,
                             peroxide, perborate,     metallurgy,
                             phosphates, zeolites,    pharmaceuticals, tanning,
                             silicates, sulfur        ceramics, paint, food,
                             derivatives.             animal feed, photography,
                                                      agriculture, water
                                                      treatment.
 
 
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
-----------------------
 
ENERGY AND                   Oil and gas wellhead     Oil and gas drilling,
TRANSPORTATION               and completion           production and service
EQUIPMENT                    equipment; subsea        companies.
GROUP                        engineering,
                             procurement,
                             construction and
                             equipment; valves,
                             pumps and loading
                             arms; marine terminals
                             and floating             
                             production systems,      
                             metering systems.        
                                                      
                             Airline and automotive   Industrial manufacturing, 
                             equipment, material      airlines, airports,       
                             handling systems.        automotive repair         
                                                      facilities, mining,       
                                                      warehouses, newsprint,    
                                                      publishing, chemicals,    
                                                      electrical utilities.
 
FOOD                         Systems and equipment    Food and juice
MACHINERY                    to process food and      processors; fresh fruit
GROUP                        beverages, including     packers; food growers;
                             harvesters,              supermarkets; bakery,
                             sterilizers,             confectionery, pet food,
                             extractors, fillers,     pharmaceutical and
                             closers, packaging and   personal care markets.
                             material handling
                             equipment.

 
  Business Unit               Principal Products          Markets Served
  -------------               ------------------          --------------     
 
DEFENSE SYSTEMS
---------------
UNITED DEFENSE, L.P.
 
GROUND SYSTEMS               Produces tracked          U.S. Army, Marine Corps
                             military vehicles for     and National Guard;
                             U.S. Army, U.S. Marine    allied governments.
                             Corps, National Guard;
                             allied governments.
 
 
ARMAMENT SYSTEMS             Develops high-tech        U.S. Navy, Army and
                             weapons systems for       Marine Corps and allied
                             U.S. Army; designs and    governments.
                             builds guns and
                             launching systems and
                             provides support
                             services for U.S. Navy
                             and international
                             customers.

INTERNATIONAL                Marketing and             International
                             manufacturing arm for     governments.
                             military products
                             outside the United
                             States.

STEEL                        Produces steel track,     Military,
PRODUCTS                     forgings and castings.    transportation, energy
                             Overhauls and converts    and mining.
                             tracked vehicles
 
 
 
PRECIOUS METALS
---------------

FMC GOLD                     Produces gold from mines  Precious metal 
                             in the western United     refineries.
                             States.  Focusing on
                             exploration of precious
                             metals in Latin America
                             and western United States


SOURCE AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

FMC's natural resource requirements are primarily mineral oriented rather than
oil or natural gas oriented.  Substantial portions of requirements for ores and
other raw materials, especially trona and phosphate rock, are produced from
mines in the United States on property held by FMC under long-term leases which
are subject to periodic adjustments of royalty rates.  Machinery operations
obtain raw materials, principally steel and castings, from many sources both
foreign and domestic. No one source is 

 
considered essential to any of the machinery operations. The Company uses oil,
gas, coal, coke, hydro-electric power and nuclear power to meet its energy
needs.

PATENTS

Although FMC's patents, trademarks and license are cumulatively important to its
business, FMC does not believe that the loss of any one or group of related
patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on the
overall business of FMC or on any of its business segments.

PRINCIPAL CUSTOMER

Sales to various agencies of the United States government aggregated $618.3
million, $768.4 million and $839.5 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
These sales were made primarily by the Defense Systems segment.  Contracts with
various agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with other
prime contractors are subject to a profusion of procurement regulations, with
noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties,
debarment or suspension from receiving additional government contracts.
Moreover, these contracts may be terminated at the government's convenience
although contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement
for costs incurred as well as the payment of any applicable fees or profits.

SEASONALITY

FMC's businesses are not generally considered to be seasonal although there has
been a bias in the Performance Chemicals segment towards lower profitability in
the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonality in the markets served by the
Agricultural Products Group.


The increase in Defense Systems backlog resulted from Combat Systems Division
backlog not included in 1993 and additional funding in 1994 on the Paladin
howitzer contract, offset by declines in backlogs for Ground Systems and
Armament Systems Divisions.

 
The increase in Machinery & Equipment backlog reflects the acquisition of Jetway
Systems in the Airport Product and Systems Division and the North Sea Norne
project awarded to the Wellhead Division.

Backlogs are not reported for Industrial Chemicals, Performance Chemicals and
Precious Metals due to the nature of these businesses.


COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

FMC competes on the basis of price and product performance and is among the
market leaders in most products it manufactures.  FMC is the world's largest
producer of natural soda ash, a leading North American producer of hydrogen
peroxide, a leading North American producer of industrial phosphorus chemicals
and a  world leader in the mining and processing of lithium products.  FMC
manufactures Furadan, one of the largest selling insecticides in the world.  FMC
is also the largest worldwide producer of carrageenan, microcrystalline
cellulose, and phosphate ester flame retardants.  United Defense, L.P. is a
world leader in the production of tracked, armored personnel carriers.   FMC
also participates in many machinery businesses, including food processing,
material handling and energy equipment, where FMC has a significant market
share.  Products are sold in highly competitive markets worldwide.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES


Expenditures for research and development increased in Performance Chemicals
primarily due to continued development of herbicides and insecticides.
Expenditures also increased in Machinery & Equipment primarily related to
acquisitions in 1994.

Not included in these amounts are $104.9 million, $208.8 million and $139.2
million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively for research and development
projects contracted directly with the U.S. government and commercial sponsors.
The decrease in 1994 is 

 
attributable to the expected overall decline in the Armament Systems and Ground
Systems divisions.


ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company may be obligated to recognize expenses required to comply with
federal, state and local environmental laws under which the Company has been
identified as a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") by the Environmental
Protection Agency ("EPA") or other government agencies.  The Company has been
named a PRP at 36 sites on the government's National Priority List.  In
addition, the Company also has received notice form the EPA or other regulatory
agencies that the Company may be a PRP, or PRP equivalent, at other sites
including 25 sites at which the company has determined that it has a reasonably
possible environmental liability.  The Company, in cooperation with appropriate
government agencies, is currently participating in, or has participated in,
Remediation Investigation/Feasibility Studies ("RI/FS") or their equivalent at
most of the identified sites, with the status of each investigation varying from
site to site.  RI/FS at certain sites have just begun whereby limited
information, if any, is available relating to cost estimates, timing, or the
involvement of other PRPs; whereas, at other sites, the studies are complete,
remedial action plans have been chosen, and Records of Decisions ("RODs") have
been issued.

Reserves at December 31, 1994 were provided for potential environmental
obligations which management considers probable and for which a reasonable
estimate of the obligation could be made.  Where the available information is
sufficient to estimate the amount of liability, that estimate has been used;
where the information is only sufficient to establish a range of probable
liability and no point within the range is more likely than any other, the lower
end of the range has been used.  Accordingly, reserves of $229 million and $187
million, before recoveries, have been provided at December 31, 1994 and December
31, 1993, respectively, of which $142 million and $99 million are included in
the reserve for discontinued operations at December 31, 1994 and December 31,
1993, respectively.  In addition, the Company has estimated reasonably possible
environmental loss contingencies in excess of amounts accrued of approximately
$230 million.
                  
Although potential environmental remediation expenditures in excess of the
current reserves and estimated loss contingencies could be significant, the
impact on the Company's future financial results is not subject to reasonable
estimation due to numerous uncertainties concerning the nature and scope of
contamination at many sites, identification of remediation alternatives under
constantly changing requirements, selection of new and diverse clean-up
technologies to meet compliance standards, the timing of potential expenditures,
and the allocation of costs among PRPs as well as other third parties.

 
The liability arising from potential environmental obligations that have not
been reserved for at this time, may be material to any one quarter's or year's
results of operations in the future.  Management, however, believes the
liability arising from the potential environmental obligations is not likely to
have a material adverse effect on the company's liquidity or financial condition
and may be satisfied over the next 20 years or longer.

To ensure FMC is held responsible only for its equitable share of site
remediation costs, FMC has initiated, and will continue to initiate, legal
proceedings for contributions from other PRPs, and for a determination of
coverage against its comprehensive general liability insurance carriers.  The
Supreme Court of California has determined that FMC's clean-up costs are insured
damages under its liability insurance policies, subject to a determination of
the application of certain policy exclusions and conditions.  In July 1993, in
the Superior Court of Santa Clara County, CA, a jury verdict determined that
these exclusions do not apply to several of these sites. The other sites will be
the subject of future litigation.  Approximately $123 million of recoveries ($44
million as other assets and $79 million as an offset to the reserve for
discontinued operations) and approximately $54 million of recoveries ($32
million as other assets and $22 million as an offset to the reserve for
discontinued operations), has been recorded as probable realization on claims
against insurance companies and other third parties at December 31, 1994 and
December 31, 1993, respectively.

Regarding current operating sites, the Company spent approximately $20 million,
$16 million and $20 million for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, on
capital projects relating to environmental control facilities, and expects to
spend additional capital of approximately $36 million and $21 million in 1995
and 1996, respectively.  Additionally, in 1994, 1993, and 1992, FMC spent
approximately $55 million,  $63 million and $57 million, respectively, for
environmental compliance costs for these sites and expects to spend
approximately $61 million in 1995.
                               
Regarding previously operated and other sites for the year 1994, 1993 and 1992,
FMC charged approximately $18 million, $17 million and $11 million,
respectively, against established reserves for remediation spending, with
projected spending of approximately $45 million in 1995, and charged
approximately $13 million, $10 million and $11 million, respectively, against
reserves for spending on RI/FS.  Recoveries from third parties of approximately
$5 million, $7 million and $3 million, respectively, were received in 1994,
1993 and 1992.  FMC anticipates that the expenditures for current operating ,
previously operated and other sites will continue to be significant for the
foreseeable future.

 
EMPLOYEES.

FMC has 21,344 employees in its domestic and foreign operations.  At most of its
plants in the United States and Canada, the majority of these employees are
members of labor unions, primarily unions which are affiliated with national
labor organizations. Contracts covering about 19% of these hourly employees
expire during 1995 and certain of these contracts are under negotiation at the
present time.  Occasionally, FMC experiences strikes at one or more of its
plants which adversely affect sales and earnings to varying degrees.  FMC
considers its employee relations to be good; however, it cannot predict the
outcome of contract negotiations.

D.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES:


 

ITEM 2   PROPERTIES

FMC leases executive offices in Chicago and administrative offices in
Philadelphia.  The Company operates 97 manufacturing facilities and mines in 21
countries.  Major 

 
research facilities are in Santa Clara, CA, and Princeton, NJ. FMC holds mining
leases on shale and ore deposits in Idaho to supply its phosphorus plant in
Pocatello, and owns substantial phosphatic ore deposits in Rich County, Utah.
Trona ore, used for soda ash production in Green River, WY, is mined primarily
from property held under long-term lease. FMC also owns half of a lithium mine
located near Cherryville, NC, and has long-term lease commitments for the
remaining portion and in Argentina FMC owns the land and mineral rights to the
Salar de Hombre Muerto lithium reserves. FMC Gold Company owns mineral rights to
gold and silver ore bodies at its wholly-owned Beartrack property in Idaho, as
well as the right to 30 percent of the gold ore reserves at the Jerritt Canyon
mine in Elko, NV, operated by its joint-venture partner, Independence Mining
Company Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Minorco (USA) Inc. and leases its
administrative headquarters in Reno, Nevada. Mining operations provide basic raw
materials to many of FMC's chemical plants, without which other sources would
have to be obtained. FMC's mining properties are operated under numerous long-
term leases with no single lease or related group of leases material to the
businesses of the Company as a whole. United Defense, L.P. leases its
administrative offices in Arlington, Virginia.

Most of FMC's plant sites are owned, with an immaterial number of them being
leased.  FMC believes its properties and facilities meet present requirements
and are in good operating condition.  FMC believes that each of its significant
manufacturing facilities is operating at a level consistent with the industry in
which it operates. FMC's production properties for continuing operations are:


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Environmental Proceedings
-------------------------

As previously reported in FMC's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period
ended September 30, 1994, an environmental inspection was conducted in July 1993
at FMC's Phosphorus Chemicals Division plant in Pocatello, Idaho.  In August
1994, the United States EPA (Region 10) (the "EPA") formally notified FMC of a
number of alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
("RCRA") and related 

 
environmental regulations governing the management of hazardous waste generated
by the plant, including the operations of hazardous waste storage and treatment
units without required permits, the failure to implement an adequate groundwater
monitoring program and to comply with related reporting requirements and the
existence of several other improper treatment and disposal practices. There are
no legal proceedings pending at this time; however, the EPA has stated that the
alleged violations may subject FMC to enforcement action under RCRA, including
possible actions for monetary sanctions, injunctive relief or other available
remedies. Management believes that the resolution of these matters will not
likely have a material adverse effect on FMC's liquidity, results of operations
or financial condition.

Beartrack Gold Property
-----------------------

On May 4, 1994, FMC Gold Company, an 80% owned subsidiary of FMC, announced
plans to invest $57 million to develop the Beartrack property located near
Salmon, Idaho.  The decision to proceed with the development was based largely
on improved project economics and issuance of a biological opinion by the
National Marine Fisheries Service ("NMFS") that the proposed Beartrack mine was
"not likely to jeopardize" the continued existence of the endangered salmon.
The Company has submitted a request to the Army Corps of Engineers ("ACOE") for
renewal of one of the permits necessary to complete construction of the
Beartrack mine.  ACOE is studying that request at this time, and the Company is
participating actively in ACOE's review.

On October 21, 1994, the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, Inc., ("Sierra"), on
behalf of certain other organizations, sued NMFS and other federal agencies for
violation of the Endangered Species Act (the "Act") alleging that NMFS'
biological opinion failed to satisfy the requirements of the Act.

During the third quarter of 1994, the Pacific Rivers Council and the Wilderness
Society (the "PRC"), represented by Sierra and others, in a lawsuit currently
pending in Federal District Court in Idaho (Pacific Rivers Council v. Thomas),
filed a motion seeking an injunction against all ongoing and future forest
activities which may affect endangered salmon, including mining, within various
national forests in Idaho including the Salmon National Forest in which the
Beartrack property is located.  In that lawsuit, the PRC seeks to require the
U.S. Forest Service to consult under the Act with the NMFS regarding existing
land resource management plans for the subject forests and their potential
impacts on endangered salmon.
               
The Company, along with other mining and timber companies, has been granted
limited leave to intervene in both lawsuits and filed a memorandum in opposition
to the PRC's motion for an injunction at least as it might apply to the
Beartrack property based on, inter alia, the fact that the Company had already
obtained the requisite biological opinion by NMFS and the fact that the
Beartrack property is at least 6.5 miles from the closest habitat for salmon.

 
On January 12, 1995, the court in the PRC lawsuit entered an order enjoining,
among other things, all ongoing and announced mining activities in the Idaho
national forests (in which the Beartrack Project is located) subject to a
determination by the court as to whether an activity may proceed under Sections
7(a)(ii) and 7(d) of the Act.  The Company and the government have filed appeals
from the court's order.  On January 25, 1995, the court entered an order staying
until March 16, 1995, the effectiveness of the injunction in order to give the
Forest Service time in which to complete consultation with NMFS on the Land and
Resource Management Plans for the national forests in Idaho and on March 8,
1995, the Court entered an order dissolving the injunction in recognition of
completion of the consultation process.  That action is likely to end the
Company's involvement in that litigation.

The Company believes that (i) the biological opinion was carefully considered
and fully supported by the record and (ii) that it will be permitted to continue
its planned activity at the Beartrack site.  However, a different conclusion in
the earlier lawsuit could result in suspension of further development and/or
operation of the Beartrack property.

The Beartrack property encompasses approximately 30 square miles of mining
claims and contains approximately one million ounces of proven and probable
reserves.  At December 31, 1994, FMC Gold Company's investment in Beartrack was
approximately $48 million.



ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The Executive Officers of FMC Corporation, together with the offices in FMC
Corporation presently held by them, their business experience since January 1,
1990, and their ages, are as follows:

 
 


Lawrence P. Holleran           64     Vice President (95); Vice President-Human
                                      Resources (88-94)
                                   
James A. McClung               57     Vice President (91); Vice
                                      President-International (81-91)
                                   
Earl M. Morgan                 64     Vice President (91) and General Manager-
                                      Agricultural Chemical Group (90)
                                   
Joseph H. Netherland           48     Vice President (87) and General
                                      Manager-Petroleum Equipment Group (86),
                                      Specialized Machinery Group (89); Energy
                                      and Transportation Equipment Group (93)
                                   
Thomas W. Rabaut               46     Vice President (94), President and Chief
                                      Executive Officer, United Defense, L.P.
                                      (94); General Manager, Defense Systems
                                      Group (93); Manager, Ground Systems
                                      Division (90-93)
                                   
William J. Wheeler             52     Vice President (91); President, FMC
                                      Asia-Pacific (91); General Manager,
                                      Phosphorus Chemical Division (86-91)
                                   
Scott H. Williamson            43     Vice President-Corporate Development
                                      (93); Vice President, Acquisitions and
                                      Development, Itel Corporation (85-93)
 

Each of the Company's executive officers has been employed by the Company in a
managerial capacity for the past five years except for Messrs. Callahan and
Williamson and Ms. Francis.  No family relationships exist between any of the
above-listed officers and there are no arrangements or understandings between
any of them and any other person pursuant to which they are selected as an
officer.  All officers are elected to hold office for one year and until their
successors are elected and qualify.

 


 
PART IV.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Documents filed with this Report

         1.   Consolidated financial statements of FMC Corporation and its
              subsidiaries are incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
        
         2.   All required financial statement schedules are included in the
              consolidated financial statements or notes thereto as
              incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
        
         3.   Independent Auditors report from Ernst & Young LLP for United
              Defense, L.P. (Exhibit 99).
        
         4.   Exhibits:  See attached exhibit index, page 25.
        
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K
        
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the
         period covered by this report.
        
     (c) Exhibits
        
         See Index of Exhibits.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              FMC CORPORATION
                                              (Registrant)

                                              By   Michael J. Callahan
                                                   -------------------
                                                   Michael J. Callahan
                                                   Executive Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer

 
Date:  March 29, 1995


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.


 
                                     PAGE 1
                        INDEX OF EXHIBITS FILED WITH OR
                         INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO
                          FORM 10-K OF FMC CORPORATION
                        FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
 
 

 
     4.4     Annex A - Definitions Relating to the         N/A
             Partnership Agreement and the
             Participation Agreement (incorporated
             by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to the
             Form 8-K filed on February 14, 1994)
 
     4.5     Registration Rights Agreement, dated as       N/A
             of January 1, 1994, by and among FMC
             Corporation, Harsco Defense Holding,
             Inc. and United Defense, L.P.
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             4.4 to the Form 8-K filed on February
             14, 1994)
 
     4.6     Management Services Agreement, dated as       N/A
             of January 1, 1994, by and between FMC
             Corporation and United Defense, L.P.*
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             4.6 to the Form 8-K filed on February
             14, 1994)
 
     4.7     Form of Senior Promissory Note                N/A
             Agreement by and between Harsco Defense
             Holding, Inc. and United Defense, L.P.
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             4.6 to the Form 8-K filed on February
             14, 1994)
 
     10.1**  Directors' Retirement Plan as amended          29
             on December 9, 1994

     10.2**  FMC 1981 Incentive Share Plan, as             N/A
             amended, effective May 28, 1986
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             10.1 to the Form SE filed on March 25,
             1993)
 
     10.3**  FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan                 N/A
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             10.1. to the Form SE filed on March 26,
             1991)
 
     10.4**  FMC Corporation Salaried Employees'
             Retirement Plan, as amended and                31
             restated effective January 1, 1995
 
     10.5**  FMC Employees' Thrift and Stock               N/A
             Purchase Plan, as revised and restated
             as of April 1, 1991 (incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Form
             SE filed on March 27, 1992)
 
     10.6**  Amendments to the FMC Employees' Thrift
             and Stock Purchase Plan through                
             December 31, 1994                              92
 
     10.7**  FMC Salaried Employees' Equivalent            N/A
             Retirement Plan (incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form
             SE filed on March 27, 1992)
 

 
     10.8**  FMC Deferred Compensation Equivalent          N/A
             Retirement and Thrift Plan
             (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             10.5 to the Form SE filed on March 27,
             1992)
 
 
     10.9**  FMC Management Bonus Plan (incorporated       N/A
             by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the
             Form SE filed on March 27, 1992)
 
    10.10**  FMC Corporation Amended and Restated          N/A
             Executive Severance Plan, (incorporated
             by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
             Form SE filed on March 28, 1990)
 
 
    10.11**  FMC Employees' Thrift and Stock               N/A
             Purchase Trust dated
             April 1, 1982 (incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Form
             SE filed on March 27, 1992)
 
    10.12**  Amendment to FMC Employees' Thrift and        N/A
             Stock Purchase Trust dated April 1,
             1988 (incorporated by reference from
             Exhibit 10.8 to the Form SE filed on
             March 27, 1992)
 
 
    10.13**  FMC Master Trust Agreement between FMC        N/A
             and Bankers
             Trust Company (incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit 10.9 to the Form
             SE filed on March 27, 1992)
 
    10.14    Fiscal Agency Agreement between FMC           N/A
             Corporation and Union Bank of
             Switzerland, Fiscal Agent, dated as of
             January 16, 1990 (incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form
             SE filed on March 28, 1990)
 
    10.15**  Amended and Restated FMC-Deferred Stock
             Plan for Non-Employee Directors                95
 
    10.16**  Consulting Agreement dated as of
             September 1, 1990 between the Company
             and Edward C. Meyer (incorporated by          N/A
             reference from Exhibit 10.16 to Form
             10-K-A filed on April 5, 1994)
 
 
    13       Annual Report of FMC Corporation for
             the year ended December 31, 1994, is
             included as an Exhibit to this report
             for the information of the Securities
             and Exchange Commission and, except for
             those portions thereof specifically           100
             incorporated by reference elsewhere
             herein, such Annual Report should not
             be deemed filed as a part of this
             report.
 
    21       List of Significant Subsidiaries of           179
             Registrant

 
         23  Consent of Auditors                               180

         24  Powers of Attorney                                182

         27  Financial Data Schedule                           195

         99  Report of Ernst & Young LLP,                      196
             Independent Auditors
_______________________________

*  The Registrant has omitted the schedule and certain exhibits to the
Participation Agreement, the Partnership Agreement and the Management
Services Agreement and agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of such 
scheduled and exhibits to the Commission upon request.

** Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

