
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



 
===============================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K
                                        
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                      OR

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
     For the transition period from ____________________ to __________________
     Commission file number 1-2376

                                FMC CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                          94-0479804
- -------------------------------                         -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois                     60601
- ------------------------------------------              -------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  312/861-6000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                     on which registered
- -------------------                                    ----------------------

Common Stock, $0.10 par value                          New York Stock Exchange
                                                       Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                       Pacific Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights                        New York Stock Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

 
     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

YES [X]     NO [_]

     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  [_]

     THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
REGISTRANT AS OF MARCH 6, 1998, WAS $2,483,388,496.  THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF
REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK, $0.10 PAR VALUE, OUTSTANDING AS OF THAT DATE WAS
34,702,372.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

DOCUMENT                                   FORM 10-K REFERENCE
- --------                                   ------------------- 

Portions of 1997 Annual Report to          Part I, Item 1; Part II; and Part IV,
Stockholders                               Items 14(a)(1) and (2) 

Portions of Proxy Statement for 1998       Part III  
Annual Meeting of Stockholders

_____________________________________________________________________

 
                                     PART I
                                        

FMC Corporation was incorporated in 1928 under Delaware law and has its
principal executive offices at 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois
60601.  As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by
the context, "FMC", "the Company" or "the Registrant" means FMC Corporation and
its consolidated subsidiaries and their predecessors.

The Company is one of the world's leading producers of chemicals and machinery
for industry and agriculture.  The Company employs 16,805 people at 104
manufacturing facilities and mines in 25 countries.  The Company divides its
businesses into three main segments: Machinery and Equipment, Industrial
Chemicals, and Performance Chemicals. Machinery and Equipment businesses provide
specialized machinery to the food, petroleum, transportation and material
handling industries. Industrial Chemicals businesses manufacture a wide variety
of chemicals including soda ash, phosphates and hydrogen peroxide.  Major
customers include detergent, glass and paper producers, as well as other
chemical companies. Performance Chemicals develops, manufactures and markets
proprietary specialty chemicals for the agricultural, food and pharmaceutical
industries.

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

                                           Incorporated by Reference From:
                                           ------------------------------  

(a)  General Development of Business    -  Annual Report to Stockholders, pages
                                           2-4 and 57, and Notes 2, 3 and 4 to
                                           the consolidated financial statements
                                           on pages 39-42

(b)  Financial Information About        -  Annual Report to Stockholders, page 5
     Industry Segments

(c)  Narrative Description of Business  -  Annual Report to Stockholders, pages
                                           6-9


    Source and availability of raw materials
    ----------------------------------------

    FMC's natural resource requirements are primarily mineral-oriented.
    Substantial portions of requirements for ores and other raw materials,
    especially trona and phosphate rock, are produced from mines in the United
    States on property held by 

 
    FMC under long-term leases which are subject to periodic adjustments of
    royalty rates. The Company also owns land, including mineral rights,
    relating to an Argentine salar from which it produces lithium. Machinery
    operations obtain raw materials, principally steel and castings, from many
    foreign and domestic sources. No one source is considered essential to any
    of the machinery operations. The Company uses oil, gas, coal, coke,
    hydroelectric power and nuclear power to meet its energy needs.

    Patents
    -------

    Although FMC's patents, trademarks and licenses are cumulatively important
    to its business, FMC does not believe that the loss of any one or group of
    related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect
    on the overall business of FMC or on any of its business segments.

    Seasonality
    -----------

    FMC's businesses are not generally considered to be seasonal, although there
    has been a bias in the Performance Chemicals segment towards lower
    profitability in the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonality in the
    markets served by the agricultural products businesses.

    Competitive Conditions
    ----------------------

    FMC competes on the basis of price and product performance and is among the
    market leaders in most products it manufactures. FMC is the world's largest
    producer of natural soda ash, a leading North American producer of hydrogen
    peroxide, a leading North American producer of industrial phosphorus
    chemicals and a world leader in the mining and processing of lithium
    products. FMC manufactures Furadan, one of the largest selling insecticides
    in the world. FMC is also the largest worldwide producer of carrageenan,
    microcrystalline cellulose, and phosphate ester flame retardants. FMC also
    participates in many machinery businesses, including food processing,
    material handling and energy equipment, where FMC has a significant market
    share. Products are sold in highly competitive markets worldwide.

    Research and Development Expenses
    ---------------------------------



 
    Expenses increased in Machinery & Equipment primarily as a result of the
    inclusion of a full year of operating results of Frigoscandia Equipment,
    which was acquired on June 30, 1996, as well as increased spending in the
    Company's energy transportation and measurement, and petroleum equipment and
    systems businesses. Decreased expenses in Industrial Chemicals primarily
    reflect process improvements implemented in 1996 in conjunction with the
    completion of the expansion of the Company's Bayport, Texas hydrogen
    peroxide plant. Expenses also decreased in Performance Chemicals, due
    primarily to the absence of costs associated with the development of several
    new herbicides which were introduced in 1997.

    Not included in these amounts are costs associated with discontinued
    operations, primarily the Company's Defense Systems operations which were
    divested in October 1997.


    Environmental
    -------------
                                           Incorporated by Reference From:
                                           ------------------------------

     Compliance with environmental laws  - Annual Report to Stockholders,
     and regulations                       Note 15 to the consolidated
                                           financial statements on
                                           pages 50-51

    Employees
    ---------

    FMC employs 16,805 people in its domestic and foreign operations.
    Approximately 2,540 such employees are represented by collective
    bargaining agreements in the United States. In 1998, eight of the Company's
    17 contracts will expire. Certain of those contracts are under negotiation
    at the present time. FMC maintains good employee relations and has
    successfully concluded virtually all of its recent negotiations without a
    work stoppage. In those rare instances where a work stoppage has occurred,
    there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings.
    However, FMC cannot predict the outcome of future contract negotiations.

                                           Incorporated by Reference From:
                                           ------------------------------ 

(d) Financial Information About Foreign  - Annual Report to Stockholders,  
    and Domestic Operations and            page 34
    Export Sales

 
    Forward Looking Statements - Safe Harbor Provisions
    ---------------------------------------------------

    The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or
    oral forward-looking statements with respect to long-term objectives or
    expectations of the Company, including statements contained in the Company's
    filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to
    stockholders.

    The words or phrases "will likely result", "are expected to", "will
    continue", "is anticipated", "is predicted", "forecast", "estimate",
    "project", or similar expressions identify "forward-looking statements"
    within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and
    uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
    historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. The
    Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. In
    connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying important
    factors that could affect the Company's financial performance and could
    cause the Company's actual results for future periods to differ materially
    from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods in
    any current statements.

    Among the factors that could have an impact on the Company's ability to
    achieve its operating results and growth plan goals are:

    .  significant price competition, particularly among the Company's
       competitors in chemical businesses

    .  the impact of unforeseen economic and political changes in the
       international markets where the Company competes including currency
       exchange rates, inflation rates, recessions, foreign ownership
       restrictions, and other external factors over which the Company has no
       control

    .  the impact of significant changes in domestic interest rates or taxation
       rates

    .  high ingredient or raw material prices compared to historical levels, or
       shortages of ingredients or raw materials

    .  the inherent risks in the marketplace associated with new product
       introductions and technologies, particularly in agricultural and
       specialty chemicals

    .  the risks associated with developing new manufacturing processes,
       particularly with respect to complex chemical products

    .  the ability of the Company to integrate possible future acquisitions 
       into its existing operations

    .  the impact of freight transportation delays beyond the control of the
       Company

    .  the inability of the Company or its suppliers or customers to remedy
       potential problems with information systems related to the arrival of the
       year 2000

    .  risks associated with joint venture, partnership or limited endeavors in
       which the Company may be responsible at least in part for the acts or
       omissions of its partners

    .  risks derived from unforeseen developments in industries served by the
       Company such as weather patterns in the agricultural sector, political or
       economic changes in the energy industries, and other external factors
       over which the Company has no control


 
    .  environmental liabilities which may arise in the future and which are not
       covered by insurance or indemnity

    The Company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors may not be
    all inclusive and it specifically declines to undertake any obligation to
    publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to
    reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to
    reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

FMC leases executive offices in Chicago and administrative offices in
Philadelphia.  The Company operates 104 manufacturing facilities and mines in 25
countries.  The major research facility is in Princeton, NJ.  FMC holds mining
leases on shale and ore deposits in Idaho to supply its phosphorus plant in
Pocatello, and owns substantial phosphatic ore deposits in Rich County, Utah.
Trona ore, used for soda ash production in Green River, WY, is mined primarily
from property held under long-term lease.  FMC owns the land and mineral rights
to the Salar del Hombre Muerto lithium reserves in Argentina.  Many of FMC's
chemical plants require the basic raw materials which are provided by these FMC-
owned or -leased mines, without which other sources would have to be obtained.
With regard to FMC's mining properties operated under long-term leases, no
single lease or related group of leases is material to the businesses of the
Company as a whole.

Most of FMC's plant sites are owned, with an immaterial number of them being
leased.  FMC believes its properties and facilities meet present requirements
and are in good operating condition and that each of its significant
manufacturing facilities is operating at a level consistent with the industry in
which it operates. FMC's production properties for continuing operations are:



 
ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Environmental Proceedings
- -------------------------

An environmental inspection was conducted in July 1993 at FMC's Phosphorus
Chemicals Division ("PCD") plant in Pocatello, Idaho.  In August 1994, the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (Region 10) ("EPA") formally
notified FMC of a number of alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act and related environmental regulations governing the management of
hazardous waste generated by the plant, including the operations of hazardous
waste storage and treatment units without interim status, the failure to submit
timely closure plans, the failure to comply with related reporting requirements
and the existence of several other improper treatment and disposal practices.
Although there are no legal proceedings pending at this time, FMC has been
advised that the matter has been referred to the United States Department of
Justice for an evaluation of whether to file a civil enforcement action.  If
such a civil action is filed, the government is likely to demand both injunctive
relief and civil penalties.  FMC has had extensive discussions with the
Department of Justice and the EPA concerning substantial proposed environmental
projects involving pond closure and remediation, changes to waste handling
practices and additional air control in an effort to settle this matter in
advance of litigation. See Note 4 to the 1997 consolidated financial statements
(pages 41-42 of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders) for a discussion of an
expected increase in capital costs for environmental compliance, which
contributed to an impairment in the value of PCD's assets during the fourth
quarter of 1997.

In a separate matter, the EPA issued a draft Risk Assessment on August 17, 1995
for the Eastern Michaud Flats Superfund site, which includes FMC's Pocatello
phosphorus facility, identifying potential risks from contamination potentially
associated with FMC.  Release of the Risk Assessment allowed FMC to complete a
draft of the Remedial Investigation documenting the nature and extent of
contamination from the site.  The company submitted its draft Remedial
Investigation to the EPA on September 28, 1995.  On April 21, 1997, the EPA
issued for public comment its proposed remediation plan for the site.  The EPA's
preferred remediation alternative is a combination of capping, surface runoff
controls and institutional controls for soils, and extraction and recycling for
hydraulic control of groundwater.  While the company is still reviewing the
EPA's proposed plans, FMC believes its reserve at December 31, 1997 of $66.1
million for future environmental costs at the Eastern Michaud Flats site
adequately provides for the estimated costs of the proposed Superfund
remediation plan for the site.

See Note 15 to the 1997 consolidated financial statements (pages 50-51 of the
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders) for a discussion of legal proceedings
against other Potentially Responsible Parties and insurers for contribution
and/or coverage with respect to environmental remediation costs.

Other
- -----

A former employee of FMC brought a qui tam lawsuit in 1986 in federal district
court in San Jose, California, claiming that FMC had not produced the Bradley
Fighting Vehicle 

 
in accordance with Government specifications. The Department of Justice declined
to intervene in the case, in which the plaintiff has alleged substantial
monetary damages. FMC management believes that the claims in this case are
without merit and the Company continues to defend this matter vigorously. The
trial in this case began in January 1998.


ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


None.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The Executive Officers of FMC Corporation, together with the offices in FMC
Corporation presently held by them, their business experience since January 1,
1993, and their ages as of March 1, 1998, are as follows:


 

 
 

 


Each of the Company's executive officers has been employed by the Company in a
managerial capacity for the past five years except for Messrs. Callahan, McGrath
and Kahn.  No family relationships exist among any of the above-listed officers
and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of them and any
other person pursuant to which they are selected as an officer. All officers are
elected to hold office for one year and until their successors are elected and
qualified.


                                    PART II

 

 
 
 
 
                                   PART III

 

                                    PART IV

                                        
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a) Documents filed with this Report

          1.   Consolidated financial statements of FMC Corporation and its
               subsidiaries are incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

          2.   All required financial statement schedules are included in the
               consolidated financial statements or notes thereto as
               incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

          3.   Exhibits:  See attached Index of Exhibits


 
      (b) Reports on Form 8-K

          During the quarter ended December 31, 1997, Registrant filed reports
          on Form 8-K or Form 8-K/A as follows:

               Date                               Subject
               ----                               -------

          October 8, 1997          Announcement of completion of sale of
                                   defense operations

          October 16, 1997         Inclusion of additional information,
                                   exhibits and pro forma financial information
                                   related to sale of defense operations

          December 11, 1997        Announcement of lower earnings expectations
                                   for fourth quarter of 1997, gain on sale of
                                   defense operations and recording of asset
                                   impairments and other charges

          December 23, 1997        Inclusion of full text of two exhibits
                                   related to sale of defense operations

      (c) Exhibits

          See Index of Exhibits.

                                  SIGNATURES
                                        
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   FMC CORPORATION
                                   (Registrant)

                                   By:  /s/ Michael J. Callahan
                                        -----------------------
                                        Michael J. Callahan
                                        Executive Vice President and
                                        Chief Financial Officer
Date:  March 17, 1998

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.




 
                                    PAGE 1
                        INDEX OF EXHIBITS FILED WITH OR
                        INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO
                         FORM 10-K OF FMC CORPORATION
                       FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997


Exhibit
No.
This
10-K                               Exhibit Description
- ----                               -------------------                         

2.1        Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 25, 1997, by and among FMC
           Corporation, Harsco Corporation, Harsco UDLP Corporation and Iron
           Horse Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1
           to the Form 8-K/A filed on October 16, 1997)

3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as filed on July 1, 1986
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Form SE filed on
           March 25, 1993)

3.2        Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed on April 30,
           1987 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the Form SE filed
           on March 25, 1993)

3.3        Restated By-Laws of the Company, amended as of February 20, 1998

4.1        Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of February 19, 1988,
           between Registrant and Harris Trust and Savings Bank (incorporated by
           reference from Exhibit 4 to the Form SE filed on March 25, 1993)

4.2        Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated February 9,
           1996 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 1 to the Form 8-K filed
           on February 9, 1996)

4(iii)(A)  Registrant undertakes to furnish to the Commission upon request, a
           copy of any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term
           debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries and for
           any of its unconsolidated subsidiaries for which financial
           statements are required to be filed


 
10.1*      FMC 1997 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended
           April 18, 1997 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 15, 1997)

10.2*      FMC 1981 Incentive Share Plan, as amended, effective May 28, 1986
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Form SE filed
           on March 25, 1993)

10.3*      FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
           10.1 to the Form SE filed on March 26, 1991)

10.3.a*    Amendment dated April 18, 1997 to FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3.a to the Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 15, 1997)

10.4*      FMC Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan, as amended and
           restated effective January 1, 1995 (incorporated by reference from
           Exhibit 10.4 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1994)

10.4.a*    Amendment dated March 3, 1998 to FMC Corporation Salaried Employees'
           Retirement Plan

10.4.b*    Amendment dated March 28, 1996 to FMC Corporation Salaried Employees'
           Retirement Plan

10.5*      FMC Employees' Thrift and Stock Purchase Plan, as revised and
           restated as of April 1, 1991 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
           10.3 to the Form SE filed on March 27, 1992)

10.6*      Amendments to the FMC Employees' Thrift and Stock Purchase Plan
           through December 31, 1994 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
           10.6 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1994)

10.6.a*    Amendment dated March 28, 1996 to FMC Employees' Thrift and Stock
           Purchase Plan

10.6.b*    Amendments effective April 1 and June 1, 1995 to FMC Employees' 
           Thrift and Stock Purchase Plan

10.6.c*    Amendment dated October 1, 1997 to the FMC Employees' Thrift and 
           Stock Purchase Plan


 
10.7*      FMC Salaried Employees' Equivalent Retirement Plan (incorporated by
           reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form SE filed on March 27, 1992)

10.8*      FMC Corporation Non-Qualified Retirement and Thrift Plan

10.9*      FMC 1995 Management Incentive Plan, as amended as of October 17, 1997

10.10*     FMC 1995 Stock Option Plan, as amended April 18, 1997 (incorporated
           by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to the Form 10-Q filed on May 15,
           1997)

10.11*     FMC Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended as of April 18,

10.12*     Master Trust Agreement Between FMC Corporation and Fidelity
           Management Trust Company, dated June 1, 1997

10.14*     FMC Master Trust Agreement between FMC and Bankers Trust Company
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.9 to the Form SE filed on
           March 27, 1992)

10.15      Fiscal Agency Agreement between FMC Corporation and Union Bank of
           Switzerland, Fiscal Agent, dated as of January 16, 1990 (incorporated
           by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form SE filed on March 28,
           1990)

10.17*     Consulting Agreement dated as of September 1, 1990 between the
           Company and Edward C. Meyer (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
           10.16 to Form 10-K-A filed on April 5, 1994)

10.18      Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to Purchase Agreement, dated as of
           August 25, 1997, by and among FMC Corporation, Harsco Corporation,
           Harsco UDLP Corporation and Iron Horse Acquisition Corp.
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K/A filed
           on December 23, 1997)

10.19      Allocation and Contribution Agreement, by and among FMC
           Corporation, Harsco Corporation and Harsco UDLP Corporation
           (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K/A
           filed on December 23, 1997)


 
12         Statement re Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

13         Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997,
           is included as an Exhibit to this report for the information of the
           Securities and Exchange Commission and, except for those portions
           thereof specifically incorporated by reference elsewhere herein, such
           Annual Report should not be deemed filed as a part of this report.

21         List of Significant Subsidiaries of Registrant

23         Consent of Auditors

24         Powers of Attorney

27         Financial Data Schedule

- -------------------------------
*  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


