
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
==============================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
     [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       OR

     [  ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
     For the transition period from __________________ to __________________
     Commission file number 1-2376

                                FMC CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                 94-0479804
        --------                               ---------------
(State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)

200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois             60601
- ------------------------------------------             -----
(Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  312/861-6000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     Name of each exchange
Title of each class                   on which registered
- -------------------                  ----------------------

Common Stock, $0.10 par value        New York Stock Exchange
                                     Midwest Stock Exchange
                                     Pacific Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights      New York Stock Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

 
          INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL
REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS, AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

YES [X]     NO [  ]

          INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO
ITEM 405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO
THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY
AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.  [__]

          THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF
THE REGISTRANT AS OF FEBRUARY 29, 1996, WAS $2,681,798,883.  THE NUMBER OF
SHARES OF REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK, $0.10 PAR VALUE, OUTSTANDING AS OF THAT
DATE WAS 36,841,410.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

DOCUMENT                           FOR 10-K REFERENCE
- --------                           ------------------

Portions of Annual Report       Part II; and Part IV, 
to Stockholders for 1995        Item 14. (a)(1) and (2)

Portions of Proxy               Part III
Statement for 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders

_____________________________________________________________________

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

A.  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

FMC Corporation was incorporated in 1928 under Delaware law and has its
principal executive offices at 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois
60601.  As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by
the context, "FMC", "the Company" or "the Registrant" means FMC Corporation and
its consolidated subsidiaries and their predecessors.

Restructuring and other charges. The Company recorded restructuring and other
charges of $35 million ($20 million after tax, or $0.53 per share) in the third
quarter of 1995 covering asset writedowns and related exit liabilities for the
expected shift in 1997 of lithium-based production from North Carolina to a new
lower-cost, higher quality mineral resource in Argentina.  Other charges of $17
million ($10 million after tax, or $0.27 per share) related primarily to asset
write-downs, and the Company increased its environmental reserves by $82.5
million ($50.7 million after tax, or $1.34 per share), as part of its ongoing
assessment of sites with known environmental issues.

In 1993, FMC recorded restructuring and other charges of $172.3 million, net of
minority interest ($123.3 million after tax, or $3.34 per share).  These charges
primarily related to restructuring costs associated with the Machinery and
Equipment and Industrial Chemical segments, expenses to restructure companywide
functional support staffs and a write-down of the investment in the Beartrack
property in the Precious Metals segment.  The restructuring program was
designated to reduce costs and improve operating efficiencies.
 
During 1995 and 1994, approximately 1,100 employee positions were eliminated.
Additionally, 500 positions were eliminated at United Defense, L.P. that were
not covered by the 1993 restructuring program.  FMC's programs to reorganize
functional support staffs throughout the company to align their activities more
closely with the company's growth initiatives, as well as severance programs
within the Industrial Chemical and Machinery and Equipment segments designed to
improve operating performance, resulted in the majority of the eliminated
positions.  Cash payments related to these separations were approximately $16
million and $32 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Approximately $34
million and $40 million of spending in 1995 and 1994, respectively, related to
the consolidation of manufacturing facilities, the exiting of unprofitable
product lines and other restructuring activities was charged to the
restructuring reserve.

 
The aggregate restructuring reserve remaining at December 31, 1995 of $18.7
million is expected to cover residual manufacturing consolidation and remaining
lithium exit liabilities.

Acquisitions.  In June 1995, FMC acquired all of the common shares of Moorco
International Inc. ("Moorco") for $28 per share, or approximately $350 million
(including acquisition costs and debt assumed).  Moorco is the leading worldwide
manufacturer of meters for the petroleum industry and a leading manufacturer of
valves for the process and power generation industries.  Moorco's operations are
included in the Company's Machinery and Equipment segment.

In conjunction with the acquisition of Moorco, goodwill and other intangible
assets of $218.4 million were recorded, and $15.5 million ($0.41 per share) of
acquired in-process research and development, with no associated tax benefit,
was charged to research and development expense during 1995.

On September 20, 1995, the Company acquired the assets of FR Manufacturing
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bridge Atlantic Corporation, for $15.7
million in cash.  FR Manufacturing Corporation is a full-line, global supplier
of tomato processing equipment and aseptic systems sold under the FranRica trade
name.  The operations are included in the Company's Machinery and Equipment
segment.

The Company also completed two smaller acquisitions during the year ended
December 31, 1995.

B.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS):

A description of the principal products and services and the major markets
served by each industry segment is included under "Narrative description of
business."
 

 

- -------------------------------------
(1)  Defense Systems' segment data includes 100 percent of United Defense, L.P.
     in 1994 and 1995.  Industrial Chemicals' segment data includes 100% of FMC
     Wyoming Corporation in 1995.  Precious Metals' segment data includes 100
     percent of FMC Gold Company in 1993 through 1995.  Minority shareholder
     interests are included in Minority interests, except the portion related to
     1993 restructuring and other charges.

(2)  Restructuring and other charges related to 1995, including the $15.5
     million write-off of acquired in-process research and development, are
     related to Industrial Chemicals ($77.5 million), Performance Chemicals
     ($45.0 million), Machinery and Equipment ($15.5 million) and Defense
     Systems ($12.0 million).  Restructuring and other charges related to 1993
     are related to Machinery and Equipment ($66.0 million).  Precious Metals
     ($47.9 million, net of minority interest), Industrial Chemicals ($29.7
     million), Performance Chemicals ($3.2 million), and Corporate ($25.5
     million).

(3)  Gain on sale of FMC Wyoming stock is attributable to the Industrial
     Chemicals segment.

(4)  Other income and (expense), net primarily includes LIFO inventory
     adjustments and pension-related income and (expense).

 
C.  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

Principal Products
- ------------------

FMC manufactures and sells a broad range of machinery and chemical products.
FMC's machinery products are marketed principally to industrial, agricultural
and defense users.  Its chemical products are mainly industrial and agricultural
chemicals.  The Company conducts its business within the five industry segments
identified in b. above.  Generally, in all of the segments, FMC competes on the
basis of price and product performance.

Information regarding principal products produced and sold by each industry
segment and principal markets served by each segment is presented in the columns
so designated in the segment table presented below.  These products are sold
directly to customers from plants and warehouses, as well as being sold in some
cases (particularly in markets outside the United States) to and through
distributors.




 
 









SOURCE AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

FMC's natural resource requirements are primarily mineral-oriented rather than
oil or natural gas-oriented.  Substantial portions of requirements for ores and
other raw materials, especially trona and phosphate rock, are produced from
mines in the United 


 
States on property held by FMC under long-term leases which are subject to
periodic adjustments of royalty rates. Machinery operations obtain raw
materials, principally steel and castings, from many foreign and domestic
sources. No one source is considered essential to any of the machinery
operations. The Company uses oil, gas, coal, coke, hydroelectric power and
nuclear power to meet its energy needs.

PATENTS

Although FMC's patents, trademarks and licenses are cumulatively important to
its business, FMC does not believe that the loss of any one or group of related
patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on the
overall business of FMC or on any of its business segments.

PRINCIPAL CUSTOMER

Sales to various agencies of the United States government aggregated $706.5
million, $618.3 million and $768.4 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
These sales were made primarily by the Defense Systems segment.  Contracts with
various agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with other
prime contractors are subject to a profusion of procurement regulations, with
noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties,
debarment or suspension from receiving additional government contracts.
Moreover, these contracts may be terminated at the government's convenience,
although contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement
for costs incurred as well as the payment of any applicable fees or profits.

SEASONALITY

FMC's businesses are not generally considered to be seasonal, although there has
been a bias in the Performance Chemicals segment towards lower profitability in
the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonality in the markets served by the
Agricultural Products business.

ORDER BACKLOG




 
The order backlog of the Defense Systems segment increased to $1.5 billion at
December 31, 1995 from $1.4 billion at the end of 1994.  The backlog increase
results primarily from new orders for upgrading Bradley Fighting Vehicles,
cannisters for the U.S. Navy, M113 vehicles for Thailand and Amphibious Assault
Vehicle kits for Korea.

U.S. government budgetary pressures are likely to result in reduced defense
spending in the coming years, and Defense Systems results may decline as a
consequence.

The increase in Machinery & Equipment backlog primarily reflects the acquisition
of Moorco in the Machinery and Equipment segment.

Backlogs are not reported for Industrial Chemicals, Performance Chemicals and
Precious Metals due to the nature of these businesses.


COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

FMC competes on the basis of price and product performance and is among the
market leaders in most products it manufactures.  FMC is the world's largest
producer of natural soda ash, a leading North American producer of hydrogen
peroxide, a leading North American producer of industrial phosphorus chemicals
and a  world leader in the mining and processing of lithium products.  FMC
manufactures Furadan, one of the largest selling insecticides in the world.  FMC
is also the largest worldwide producer of carrageenan, microcrystalline
cellulose, and phosphate ester flame retardants.  United Defense, L.P. is a
world leader in the production of tracked, armored personnel carriers.   FMC
also participates in many machinery businesses, including food processing,
material handling and energy equipment, where FMC has a significant market
share.  Products are sold in highly competitive markets worldwide.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES



 
Expenditures for research and development increased in Performance Chemicals
primarily due to continued development of herbicides and insecticides.
Expenditures also increased in Machinery & Equipment primarily related to
acquisitions in 1995 and included a $15.5 million write-off of acquired in-
process research and development related to the Moorco acquisition. The decrease
in expenditures for Defense Systems from 1994 reflects minor reductions across
most product lines.

Not included in these amounts are $150.4 million, $104.9 million and $208.8
million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively for research and development
projects contracted directly with the U.S. government and commercial sponsors,
primarily related to Defense Systems programs.


ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations that govern emissions of air pollutants, discharges of water
pollutants, and the manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous
substances, hazardous wastes and other toxic materials.  The most significant
environmental liabilities of the Company consist of obligations relating to the
remediation and/or study of sites at which the Company is alleged to have
disposed of hazardous substances. In particular, the Company is subject to
liabilities arising under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and similar state laws that impose responsibility
on persons who arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances and on current
and previous owners and operators of a facility for the clean up of hazardous
substances released from the facility into the environment.  In addition, the
Company is subject to liabilities under the corrective action provisions of the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and analogous state laws which
require owners and operators of facilities that treat, store or dispose of
hazardous waste to clean up releases of hazardous waste constituents into the
environment associated with past or present practices.  The Company has been
named a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") at 33 sites on the government's
National Priority List.  In addition, the Company also has received notice from
the EPA or other regulatory agencies that the Company may be a PRP, or PRP
equivalent, at other sites, including 27 sites at which the Company has
determined that it has a reasonably possible environmental liability.  The
Company, in cooperation with appropriate government agencies, is currently
participating in, or has participated in, Remedial Investigations/Feasibility
Studies ("RI/FS") or their equivalent at most of the identified sites, with the
status of each investigation varying from site to site.  At certain sites, RI/FS
have just begun, providing limited information, if any, relating to cost
estimates, timing, or the involvement of other PRPs; whereas at other sites, the
studies are complete, remedial action plans have been chosen, or Records of
Decision have been issued.
  
At December 31, 1995 and 1994, reserves were provided for potential
environmental obligations which management considers probable and for which a
reasonable estimate 

    
of the obligation could be made. Accordingly, reserves of $302 million and $229
million, before recoveries, have been provided at December 31, 1995 and December
31, 1994, respectively, of which $132 million and $142 million are included in
the reserve for discontinued operations at December 31, 1995 and December 31,
1994, respectively. The Company's total environmental reserves include
approximately $270 million and $183 million for remediation activities and $32
million and $46 million for RI/FS costs at December 31, 1995 and December 31,
1994, respectively. In addition, the Company has estimated reasonably possible
environmental loss contingencies may exceed amounts accrued by as much as $150
million.

The EPA issued a draft risk assessment on August 17, 1995 for the Eastern
Michaud Flats Superfund site, which includes FMC's Pocatello phosphorus
facility, identifying potential risks from contamination potentially associated
with FMC.  Release of the Risk Assessment allowed FMC to complete a draft of the
Remedial Investigation documenting the nature and extent of contamination from
the site.  The Company submitted its draft Remedial Investigation to the EPA on
September 28, 1995.  FMC added $58 million in the third quarter of 1995 to its
existing reserves of approximately $22 million for future environmental
remediation costs at the Eastern Michaud Flats site.  In addition, $25 million
was provided during the third quarter of 1995 related to other sites where
additional information became available which indicated the need for increased
accruals.

Although potential environmental remediation expenditures in excess of the
current reserves and estimated loss contingencies could be significant, the
impact on the Company's future financial results is not subject to reasonable
estimation due to numerous uncertainties concerning the nature and scope of
contamination at many sites, identification of remediation alternatives under
constantly changing requirements, selection of new and diverse clean-up
technologies to meet compliance standards, the timing of potential expenditures,
and the allocation of costs among PRPs as well as other third parties.

The liability arising from potential environmental obligations that have not
been reserved for at this time may be material to any one quarter's or year's
results of operations in the future.  Management, however, believes the
liability arising from the potential environmental obligations is not likely to
have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity or financial condition
and may be satisfied over the next 20 years or longer.

To ensure FMC is held responsible only for its equitable share of site
remediation costs, FMC has initiated, and will continue to initiate, legal
proceedings for contributions from other PRPs, and for a determination of
coverage against its comprehensive general liability insurance carriers.  The
Supreme Court of California has determined that FMC's clean-up costs are insured
damages under its liability insurance policies, subject to a determination of
the application of certain policy exclusions and conditions.  Approximately $140
million of recoveries ($56 million as other assets and $84 million as an offset
to the reserve for discontinued operations) and approximately $123 million of

  
recoveries ($44 million as other assets and $79 million as an offset to the
reserve for discontinued operations), have been recorded as probable realization
on claims against insurance companies and other third parties at December 31,
1995 and 1994, respectively.  The substantial majority of recorded assets
related to recoveries from PRPs are associated with existing contractual
arrangements with U.S. government agencies.

Regarding current operating sites, the Company spent approximately $22 million,
$20 million and $16 million for the years 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, on
capital projects relating to environmental control facilities, and expects to
spend additional capital of approximately $16 million and $21 million in 1996
and 1997, respectively.  Additionally, in 1995, 1994, and 1993, FMC spent
approximately $58 million, $55 million and $63 million, respectively, for
environmental compliance costs.
 
Regarding current operating, previously operated and other sites for the years
1995, 1994 and 1993, FMC charged approximately $14 million, $18 million and $17
million, respectively, against established reserves for remediation spending,
and charged approximately $12 million, $13 million and $10 million,
respectively, against reserves for spending on RI/FS.  Recoveries from third
parties of approximately $5 million, $5 million and $7 million, respectively,
were received in 1995, 1994 and 1993.  FMC anticipates that the expenditures for
current operating, previously operated and other sites will continue to be
significant for the foreseeable future.

 
EMPLOYEES.

FMC has 22,164 employees in its domestic and foreign operations.  At most of its
plants in the United States and Canada, the majority of these employees are
members of labor unions, primarily unions which are affiliated with national
labor organizations. Contracts covering about 18% of these hourly employees
expire during 1996 and certain of these contracts are under negotiation at the
present time.  Occasionally, FMC experiences strikes at one or more of its
plants which adversely affect sales and earnings to varying degrees, none of
which have been material.  FMC considers its employee relations to be good;
however, it cannot predict the outcome of contract negotiations.

D.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES:
 

 


- ------------------
(1)  See Item 1(a).  Includes pretax restructuring and other charges of $134.5
million and $172.3 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively, and a write-off of
acquired in-process research and development of $15.5 million in 1995.


 
ITEM 2   PROPERTIES

FMC leases executive offices in Chicago and administrative offices in
Philadelphia.  The Company operates 115 manufacturing facilities and mines in 24
countries.  Major research facilities are in Santa Clara, CA, and Princeton, NJ.
FMC holds mining leases on shale and ore deposits in Idaho to supply its
phosphorus plant in Pocatello, and owns substantial phosphatic ore deposits in
Rich County, Utah.  Trona ore, used for soda ash production in Green River, WY,
is mined primarily from property held under long-term lease.  FMC also owns half
of a lithium mine located near Cherryville, NC, and has long-term lease
commitments for the remaining portion and in Argentina FMC owns the land and
mineral rights to the Salar del Hombre Muerto lithium reserves.  FMC Gold
Company owns mineral rights to gold and silver ore bodies at its wholly-owned
Beartrack property in Idaho, as well as the right to 30 percent of the gold ore
reserves at the Jerritt Canyon mine in Elko, NV, operated by its joint-venture
partner, Independence Mining Company Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Minorco
(USA) Inc.  FMC Gold Company leases its administrative headquarters in Reno,
Nevada.  Mining operations provide basic raw materials to many of FMC's chemical
plants, without which other sources would have to be obtained.  FMC's mining
properties are operated under numerous long-term leases with no single lease or
related group of leases material to the businesses of the Company as a whole.
United Defense, L.P. leases its administrative offices in Arlington, Virginia.
 
Most of FMC's plant sites are owned, with an immaterial number of them being
leased.  FMC believes its properties and facilities meet present requirements
and are in good operating condition.  FMC believes that each of its significant
manufacturing facilities is operating at a level consistent with the industry in
which it operates. FMC's production properties for continuing operations are:


 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Environmental Proceedings

As reported in FMC's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1994, an environmental inspection was conducted in July 1993 at FMC's Phosphorus
Chemicals Division plant in Pocatello, Idaho.  In August 1994, the United States
EPA (Region 10) (the "EPA") formally notified FMC of a number of alleged
violations of the RCRA and related environmental regulations governing the
management of hazardous waste generated by the plant, including the operations
of hazardous waste storage and treatment units without required permits, the
failure to implement an adequate groundwater monitoring program and to comply
with related reporting requirements and the existence of several other improper
treatment and disposal practices.  There are no legal proceedings pending at
this time; however, the EPA has stated that the alleged violations may subject
FMC to enforcement action under RCRA, including possible actions for monetary
sanctions, injunctive relief or other available remedies.  Management believes
that the resolution of these matters will not likely have a material adverse
effect on FMC's liquidity, results of operations or financial condition.

In addition, in August 1994 EPA conducted an environmental inspection at FMC's
Green River, Wyoming facility, where trona is mined and soda ash and a number of
related chemicals are produced.  In May 1995, EPA provided a copy of the
inspection report, which alleged violations of RCRA and the Emergency Planning
and Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA), and proposed to negotiate a pre-
enforcement settlement.  Ultimately, FMC and EPA entered into such a settlement,
without the lodging of a formal complaint, by means of an administrative order
on consent, effective November 1, 1995.  Under the terms of this order, FMC has
paid a civil penalty in the amount of $145,000 and is implementing a series of
supplemental environmental projects (SEPs) involving waste management at an
estimated cost of $298,000.

Safety

Following an emergency incident at FMC's Process Additives Division plant in
Nitro, West Virginia on December 5, 1995, when a high pressure switch failed and
phosphorus trichloride product was discharged into a containment area where
water was present, resulting in a release of a cloud of hydrogen chloride and
fumes, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration commenced an
incident and process safety investigation.  This investigation is currently in
progress and no citations have issued.  However, there is a potential for
citations and assertion of penalties.  Management believes that the resolution
of this investigation will not likely have a material adverse effect on FMC's
liquidity, results of operations or financial condition.

 
Beartrack Gold Property

During the third quarter of 1994, the Pacific Rivers Council and the Wilderness
Society (collectively the "PRC"), in a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court
in Idaho (Pacific Rivers Council v. Thomas), sought an injunction against all
ongoing and future forest activities including mining, which may affect
endangered salmon, within various national forests in Idaho including the Salmon
National Forest in which the Beartrack property of FMC Gold Company (the "Gold
Company") is located.  In that lawsuit, the PRC sought to require the U.S.
Forest Service to consult under the Endangered Species Act (the "Act") with the
National Marine Fisheries Service ("NMFS") regarding existing land resource
management plans for the subject forests and their potential impacts on
endangered Snake River salmon.  The government defendants and the plaintiffs
have subsequently negotiated a stipulated dismissal of most of the lawsuit.
Under the terms of the stipulation, the parties dismissed from this litigation
all projects which have undergone site-specific consultation.  The Gold
Company's Beartrack mine was identified by the government defendants as a
project for which consultation has been completed.  The Court issued an Order on
Pending Claims on December 11, 1995 regarding the remaining specified projects
(not including the Beartrack mine) which have not yet completed consultation.
Under the terms of that Order, the Court has retained jurisdiction in this
lawsuit for further proceedings regarding those projects.  The Beartrack mine is
not subject to or a part of the Court's order.

In October, 1994, the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, Inc., ("Sierra") on behalf
of certain other organizations, filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court for
the Western District of Washington at Seattle against NMFS and other federal
agencies for violation of the Act alleging the NMFS' biological opinion failed
to satisfy the requirements of the Act. Sierra, the federal agencies and the
company, as intervenor, each filed a motion for summary judgment.  In November,
1995, the Court ordered the federal agencies to reinitiate consultation under
Section 7 of the Act on the potential environmental impacts of the Beartrack
mine project on endangered salmon or the designated critical habitat for salmon.
The plaintiffs did not seek, and the Court did not impose, any injunction or
other restriction on the operation of the Beartrack mine pending completion of
such consultation.  If, upon remand, the Forest Service were to determine that
an activity associated with Beartrack mine operations could preclude the
development of reasonable and prudent alternatives to the project pending
completion of the reinitiated consultation, such activities could be required to
cease pending completion of consultation.  Under the Act's regulations,
consultation must be completed within 135 days of the date consultation is
initiated.  An extension of 60 days can be imposed by the agencies.  Under the
relevant statutory and regulatory authorities, the results of a consultation can
range from no impact on the activities under review on the one hand to modest to
significant impacts on the other.  In an extreme situation, a consultation could
result in the cessation of activities altogether, a potential result the company
believes to be remote in the case of the 

  
Beartrack mine, which has been in operation and production since mid-1995. The
company believes that the ongoing operation of the Beartrack mine will not
jeopardize endangered salmon or adversely modify or destroy designated critical
habitat, and that upon completion of consultation, the mine will be permitted to
continue operation.
 
The Beartrack property encompasses approximately 30 square miles of mining
claims and contains approximately one million ounces of proven and probable
reserves.  At December 31, 1995, FMC Gold Company's net investment in Beartrack
was approximately $80 million.

Other

See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of legal
proceedings against other Potentially Responsible Parties and insurers for
contribution and/or coverage with respect to environmental remediation costs.


ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The Executive Officers of FMC Corporation, together with the offices in FMC
Corporation presently held by them, their business experience since January 1,
1991, and their ages, are as follows:
 


 


Each of the Company's executive officers has been employed by the Company in a
managerial capacity for the past five years except for Mr. Callahan.  No family
relationships exist between any of the above-listed officers and there are no
arrangements or understandings between any of them and any other person pursuant
to which they are selected as an officer.  All officers are elected to hold
office for one year and until their successors are elected and qualify.

 


 
PART IV.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)  Documents filed with this Report

           1.   Consolidated financial statements of FMC Corporation and its
                subsidiaries are incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

           2.   All required financial statement schedules are included in the
                consolidated financial statements or notes thereto as
                incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

           3.   Report of Independent Auditors from Ernst & Young LLP for United
                Defense, L.P. (Exhibit 99).

           4.   Exhibits:  See attached exhibit index, page 25

      (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

           No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the
           period covered by this report.
 
      (c)  Exhibits

           See Index of Exhibits.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              FMC CORPORATION
                                              (Registrant)

                                              By   Michael J. Callahan
                                                   -------------------
                                                   Michael J. Callahan
                                                   Executive Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer
Date:  March ___, 1996

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.


 
                                     PAGE 1
                        INDEX OF EXHIBITS FILED WITH OR
                         INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO
                          FORM 10-K OF FMC CORPORATION
                        FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 

 

 


_______________________________

*  The Registrant has omitted the schedule and certain exhibits to the
Participation Agreement, the Partnership Agreement and the Management Services
Agreement and agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of such scheduled and
exhibits to the Commission upon request.

**  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

