
10-K
GENERAL DYNAMICS FORM 10-K FOR DECEMBER 31, 1997



==============================================================================
                                      
                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                      
                                  FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                      
                                      OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 For the transition period from        to
                                      
                        Commission file number 1-3671
                                      
                         GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


Delaware                                                    13-1673581
- --------                                                    ----------
State or Other Jurisdiction of                              I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization                               Identification No.

3190 Fairview Park Drive, Falls Church, Virginia            22042-4523
- ------------------------------------------------            ----------
Address of principal executive offices                      Zip Code

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (703) 876-3000
                                                          --------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class                                      on Which Registered
- -------------------                                      -------------------
Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value                           New York Stock Exchange
                                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                        Pacific Stock Exchange

9.95% Debentures Due 2018                               New York Stock Exchange

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X    No 
                                                    ---      ---

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment of this Form 10-K. ___
                                         
      The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant was $4,725,449,330 at March 9, 1998, calculated in accordance
with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules as to beneficial ownership.

      126,236,874 shares of the registrant's common stock were outstanding at
March 9, 1998 (adjusted for two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100 percent stock dividend declared on March 4, 1998 and payable on April 2,
1998 to shareholders of record on March 13, 1998).

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

      Parts I and II incorporate information from certain portions of the
registrant's Annual Report to security holders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1997 (1997 Shareholder Report).

      Part III incorporates information from certain portions of the
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998 annual meeting of
shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

==============================================================================


                          GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

                                      INDEX






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

      The primary business of General Dynamics (the company) is supplying
weapons systems and services to the U.S. government and its international
allies. The company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1952 as successor to the
Electric Boat Company. Two of the company's primary operating units, General
Dynamics Land Systems Inc. and Bath Iron Works Corporation, were acquired in
1982 and 1995, respectively. On January 1, 1997, the company acquired the assets
of Defense Systems and Armament Systems, formerly operating units of Lockheed
Martin Corporation. On October 1, 1997, the company acquired the assets of
Advanced Technology Systems, formerly an operating unit of Lucent Technologies.
On December 31, 1997, the company acquired the assets of Computing Devices
International, formerly a division of Ceridian Corporation. During the period
1992 through 1994, the company divested its tactical military aircraft, missile
systems and space launch systems businesses.

      The company currently operates in the following business segments: Marine,
Combat Systems, Information Systems and Technology, and Other. Marine includes
Electric Boat Corporation (Electric Boat), Bath Iron Works Corporation (BIW),
and American Overseas Marine Corporation (AMSEA). Combat Systems includes
General Dynamics Land Systems Inc. (Land Systems), General Dynamics Defense
Systems, Inc. (Defense Systems), and General Dynamics Armament Systems, Inc.
(Armament Systems). Information Systems and Technology includes General Dynamics
Advanced Technology Systems, Inc. (ATS) and three operating units which
comprised Computing Devices International: General Dynamics Information Systems,
Inc. (GDIS), Computing Devices Canada, Ltd., and Computing Devices Company Ltd.
in the United Kingdom. The Other business segment includes Freeman Energy
Corporation (Freeman Energy), Material Service Corporation (Material Service),
and Patriot I, II and IV Shipping Corporations (Patriots). Information on
revenues, operating profit or loss and identifiable assets attributable to each
of the company's business segments is included in Note R to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 38 of the 1997 Shareholder Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1997, and is incorporated herein by reference. A description of the company's
products and services, competition, and other related information follows.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

MARINE


      Electric Boat designs and builds nuclear submarines for the U.S. Navy,
having contracts for the design of the New Attack Submarine (NSSN), and for
construction of the last two Seawolf class attack submarines. Electric Boat
entered into a Team Agreement with Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock
Company, providing that Electric Boat will be the prime contractor on
construction contracts for the NSSN. In addition, Electric Boat performs a broad
range of engineering work including advanced research and technology
development, systems and component design evaluation, prototype development and
logistics support to the operating fleet. Electric Boat also serves as ship
integrator for certain components and subassemblies of the submarines, such as
electronic equipment.

      BIW has contracts for the construction of 21 Arleigh Burke class
destroyers (DDG 51) and plays a lead role in providing design, engineering, and
ongoing life cycle support services for DDG 51 class ships. BIW is a member of a
three-contractor team which was awarded a contract to design and build the
Navy's new class of amphibious transport ships (LPD 17), and is a member of a
three-contractor team recently formed to compete for the development, design,
construction and life-cycle support of the U.S. Navy's next generation surface
combatant ships (DD 21).






      AMSEA provides ship management services for five of the U.S. Navy's
Maritime Prepositioning Ships (MPS), nine of the U.S. Maritime Administration's
Ready Reserve Force ships (RRF) and two U.S. Maritime Army War Reserve vessels
(AWR-3). The MPS are under five-year contracts of which three were renewed in
1995, and two were renewed in 1996. These contracts are renewable through the
year 2011. The RRF ships are in the last year of their five-year contracts. The
MPS and AWR-3 vessels operate worldwide; the RRF vessels are located on the
east, gulf and west coasts of the United States.

COMBAT SYSTEMS


      Land Systems designs and manufactures the M1 Series Abrams Main Battle
Tank for the U.S. Army and various foreign governments. Land Systems also
performs engineering and upgrade work, and provides support for existing armored
vehicles. Production of the M1A2, the latest version of the M1, was initiated in
1992. Land Systems is currently in its second year of its five year multiyear
contract with the U.S. Army to upgrade 120 tanks per year from the M1 to the
M1A2 version.

      Land Systems is also under contract for the development of several other
major armored vehicle programs. The first is the Advanced Amphibious Assault
Vehicle program for which Land Systems was recently awarded a development
contract, including prototype design and construction. Two prototypes are
currently under contract with an option for a third. The second is the Heavy
Assault Bridge program which is currently under development and is expected to
enter production late in this decade. The third is the Crusader Self-Propelled
Howitzer development program of which the company's share is approximately 25
percent.

      Land Systems will complete production of the Single Channel Ground and
Airborne Radio System in late 1998 under a contract with the U.S. Army.

      Armament Systems designs, develops and produces advanced gun and
ammunition handling systems based on the Gatling principal for applications on
various platforms. Armament Systems is also a leader in the production of
ammunition products and operates the Milan Army Ammunition Plant in Milan,
Tennessee, for the U.S. Army.

      Defense Systems builds light armored vehicles, and turrets and
transmissions for armored vehicles for both the U.S. Army and foreign
governments. As part of a restructuring plan being implemented in 1998, these
product lines are being transferred to Land Systems. The remaining business of
Defense Systems, the design and manufacture of missile guidance and fire control
systems for the U.S. Navy, will be reported in the Marine segment beginning in
1998.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

      This segment was formed effective January 1, 1998, following the
acquisitions of ATS and Computing Devices International. The net sales of ATS
for the fourth quarter of 1997 were reported in the Marine segment.

      ATS provides both fixed and mobile undersea fiber-optic surveillance
systems as well as special purpose signal and information processors for the
U.S. Navy. ATS also provides vibration reduction technologies for the
elimination of radiant noise and engine fatigue on various platforms. ATS
designs command, communications, control and intelligence systems and network
architecture solutions for the NSSN and the LPD 17. ATS also builds power feed
and terminal transmission equipment for the commercial undersea fiber-optic
market.

      GDIS provides world class information processing systems for airborne,
land-based, seaborne, and space-based platforms, as well as information
management services for the U.S. government and a number of allied nations. The
company also provides contract manufacturing services for a number of defense
and commercial electronics contractors. Computing Devices Canada, Ltd. is the
systems integrator on the Iris program, whose objective is to modernize and
fully digitize the tactical command, control and communications systems of the
Canadian land forces. In addition, it provides advanced systems products in the
areas of maritime surveillance, land based vectronics and display systems.
Computing Devices Company Ltd. in the United Kingdom provides and supports
electronics technology for airborne, ground and naval systems, and has the
second largest share of the European Fighter Aircraft.





OTHER


      Material Service is engaged in the mining and sale of aggregates (e.g.
stone, sand and gravel) for use in the construction of highways and other
infrastructure projects, and for commercial and residential building
construction primarily in northern and central Illinois. This business is
cyclical and seasonal in nature.

      Freeman Energy mines coal, producing approximately 5 million tons in each
of the last three years. Freeman Energy owns or leases rights to over 600
million tons of coal reserves in Illinois.

      Patriots are financing subsidiaries that lease liquefied natural gas
tankers to a nonaffiliated company.

COMPETITION

      Historically, competition for U.S. government defense contracts was
characterized by a number of major companies competing for a variety of weapon
system contracts. The customer's procurement policy generally required
competitive bids based on strict product specifications. In addition, the
customer often awarded contracts to more than one company in order to ensure
competition on subsequent contracts.

      In recent years, because of reduced defense spending, the industry has
consolidated through mergers and acquisitions to maintain critical mass
resulting in fewer and larger competitors. With fewer but more complex programs
in competition, companies frequently have formed strategic alliances to pursue
these programs. The Department of Defense faces challenges due to the reduction
in available procurement funds as it must address industrial base issues while
assessing competing needs between and among the various branches of the service.
Finally, Congress continues to be very influential in its role of selecting
which programs to fund and at what level based on limited budget dollars. As a
result, the defense procurement policy is evolving and will be affected by these
various and sometimes conflicting factors.

      A discussion of competition on individual programs is included in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Results of Operations and Financial
Condition on pages 18 through 23 of the 1997 Shareholder Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by
reference.

U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

      The company's net sales to the U.S. government include Foreign Military
Sales (FMS). FMS are sales to foreign governments through the U.S. government,
whereby the company contracts with and receives payment from the U.S. government
and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the customer.
Historically, the company's largest FMS sales are M1 tanks and related services,
including training in operation and maintenance, and other logistical support.
U.S. government sales were as follows (dollars in millions):








      All U.S. government contracts are terminable at the convenience of the
U.S. government, as well as for default. Under contracts terminable at the
convenience of the U.S. government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments
for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or
earnings for the work done. Contracts which are terminated for default generally
provide that the U.S. government only pays for the work it has accepted and may
require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may
hold the contractor liable for damages. In 1991, the U.S. Navy terminated for
default a contract with the company and McDonnell Douglas Corporation for the
full-scale development of the U.S. Navy's A-12 aircraft. On February 23, 1998, a
final judgment was entered in favor of the contractors for $1,200 million plus
interest. The U.S. government has filed a notice of appeal. For further
discussion, see Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 34 of
the 1997 Shareholder Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form
10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

      Companies engaged in supplying goods and services to the U.S. government
are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
funds, and may be affected by changes in U.S. government policies resulting from
various military and political developments. U.S. government defense contracts
typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are subject to
significant changes in contract scheduling. Often the contracts call for
successful design and production of very complex and technologically advanced
items.

FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS

      The major portion of sales and operating earnings of the company for the
past three years was derived from operations in the United States. Although the
company purchases supplies from and subcontracts with foreign companies, it had
no substantial operations in foreign countries until the acquisition of
Computing Devices Canada, Ltd. and Computing Devices Company Ltd. Direct
foreign sales were $132 million, $38 million and $29 million in 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively. 

SUPPLIES

      Many items of equipment and components used in the production of the
company's products are purchased from other manufacturers. The company is
dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and
the ability of its suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality
specifications and delivery schedules. In some cases the company is dependent on
one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular
item or because of domestic preference requirements pursuant to which it
operates on a given project.

      All of the company's operations are dependent upon adequate supplies of
certain raw materials, such as aluminum and steel, and on adequate supplies of
fuel. Fuel or raw material shortages could also have an adverse effect on the
company's suppliers, thus impairing their ability to honor their contractual
commitments to the company. The company has not experienced serious shortages in
any of the raw materials or fuel supplies that are necessary for its production
programs.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

      Research and development activities in Marine and Combat Systems
are conducted principally under U.S. government contracts. These research
efforts are concerned with developing products for large systems development
programs or performing work under research and development technology contracts.
Beginning in 1996, the company experienced a decline in customer-sponsored
expenditures for research and development due primarily to the NSSN program at
Electric Boat moving to the design phase. In addition, the defense businesses
engage in independent research and development, of which a significant portion
is recovered through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts.

      The table below details expenditures for research and development (dollars
in millions):








BACKLOG

      Summary backlog information for each business segment follows:




      Total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be
performed under firm contracts. Funded backlog represents the portion of total
backlog that has been appropriated by Congress and funded by the procuring
agency. To the extent backlog has not been funded, there is no assurance that
congressional appropriations or agency allotments will be forthcoming. Total
backlog also includes amounts for long-term coal contracts. For further
discussion, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Results of
Operations and Financial Condition on pages 18 through 23 of the 1997
Shareholder Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
incorporated herein by reference.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS

      The 1990 Clean Air Act (Act) had a significant impact on Freeman Energy.
The Act requires, among other things, a phased reduction in sulfur dioxide
emissions by coal burning facilities. Virtually all of the coal in Freeman
Energy's Illinois basin mines has medium or high sulfur content. Freeman
Energy's two long-term contract customers have clean coal technologies which
allow for utilization of Freeman Energy's coal under the new regulations.
Freeman Energy has targeted customers with clean coal technology to mitigate the
impact of regulations in the near term. The long-term impact of the Act is not
known.


      Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
materials into the environment and other factors affecting the environment have
had and will continue to have an impact on the manufacturing operations of the
company. Thus far, compliance with the requirements has been accomplished
without material effect on the company's capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position. While it is expected that this will continue to be the
case, the company cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future
requirements. Additional information relating to the impact of environmental
controls is included under the caption "Environmental" in Note N to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 33 of the 1997 Shareholder Report,
filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

PATENTS

      Numerous patents and patent applications are owned by the company and
utilized in its development activities and manufacturing operations. In many
cases, however, the U.S. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive,
royalty-free license, pursuant to which the government may use or authorize
others to use the inventions covered by the patents. Pursuant to similar
arrangements, the government may consent to the company's use of inventions
covered by patents. Patents and licenses are important in the operation of the
company's business, as one of management's key objectives is developing and
providing its customers with advanced technological solutions.


EMPLOYEES

      At December 31, 1997, the company had approximately 29,000 employees
(excluding contract labor), of whom 47 percent were covered by collective
bargaining agreements with various unions, the most significant of which are
the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the
Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers of America, the Metal
Trades Council (MTC) of New London, Connecticut, the United Auto Workers Union,
the Office and Professional Employees International Union and the United Mine
Workers of America. Several agreements are due to expire during 1998, the most
significant of which is the MTC.




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

      A summary of floor space at the main facilities of the Marine, Combat
Systems, and Information Systems and Technology segments follows (square feet in
millions):







      BIW began in 1997 a $200 million project to construct a fifteen acre land
level transfer facility and manufacturing support center, and a 750-foot
dry-dock in Bath, Maine to improve productivity.

      OTHER. Freeman Energy operates two underground mines and one surface mine
in Illinois. Coal preparation facilities and rail loading facilities are located
at each mine sufficient for its output. 

      Material Service operates several stone quarries, as well as sand and 
gravel pits and yards in the Chicago, Illinois area for its aggregates business.

      REAL ESTATE HELD FOR DEVELOPMENT. As part of the sale of businesses,
certain related properties were retained by the company. These properties have
been segregated on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as real estate held for
development. The company has retained outside experts to support the development
of plans and marketing efforts which are intended to maximize the market value
of these properties. The remaining properties include 232 acres in Kearny Mesa
and 2,420 acres in Sycamore Canyon, both of which are in San Diego, California;
and 308 acres in Rancho Cucamonga, California. Most of this property is
undeveloped. The company owns 10,000 square feet of building space at Rancho
Cucamonga and 200,000 square feet of building space at Sycamore Canyon. Most of
the buildings at Kearny Mesa were demolished in 1997 in preparation for
development activity. In 1997, two buildings and 55 acres in Rancho Cucamonga
were sold.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The information under the captions "Litigation" and "Environmental" in
Note N and the information in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements
appearing on pages 33 through 34 of the 1997 Shareholder Report, included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13, is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item.


ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      No matters were submitted to a vote of the company's security holders
during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1997.






SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

      The name, age, offices and positions held for the last five years of the
company's executive officers who are not directors are as follows:










All executive officers of the company are elected annually. There are no family
relationships, as defined, among any of the above executive officers. No
executive officer of the company was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and any other person.







                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
           SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

      The company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange.

      The high and low market price of the company's common stock and the cash
dividends declared for each quarterly period during the two most recent fiscal
years are included in Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing
on page 38 of the 1997 Shareholder Report, included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K as Exhibit 13, and are incorporated herein by reference.

      There were 21,046 common shareholders of record of the company's common
stock at December 31, 1997.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The information appearing on page 40 of the 1997 Shareholder Report,
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      The information appearing on pages 18 through 23 of the 1997 Shareholder
Report, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13, is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      The information appearing on pages 24 through 40 of the 1997 Shareholder
Report, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13, is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
           AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The information required to be set forth herein, except for a list of the
executive officers other than directors that is provided in Part I of this
report, is included under the caption "Election of Directors" in the company's
definitive Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The information required to be set forth herein is included under the
captions "Board of Directors and Board Committees" and "Executive Compensation"
in the company's definitive Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by
reference.







ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

      The information required to be set forth herein is included under the
captions "Election of Directors" and "Principal Shareholders" in the company's
definitive Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The information required to be set forth herein is included under the
captions "Employment Agreements and Other Agreements" and "Transactions
Involving Directors and Others" in the company's definitive Proxy Statement
which is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)  1. Financial Statements

      The Report of Independent Public Accountants and Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing in the 1997 Shareholder Report on the pages listed in the
following index are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13,
and are incorporated herein by reference.




         2.  Financial Statement Schedules

      No schedules are submitted because they are either not applicable or not
required, or because the required information is included in the financial
statements or the notes thereto.

         3.  Exhibits--See Index on pages 13 and 14 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

      (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

      There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.





                                  SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

                                        By: /s/ John W. Schwartz
                                            ------------------------
                                            John W. Schwartz
                                            Vice President and Controller
March 18, 1998

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 18, 1998, by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including a majority
of the directors.




*By Paul A. Hesse pursuant to Power of Attorney executed by the directors listed
above, which Power of Attorney has been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.


                                  /s/ Paul A. Hesse
                                  -----------------
                                  Paul A. Hesse
                                  Secretary




                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS







                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS




                                      NOTES

(1)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1980, and filed with the Commission March 31,
      1981, and incorporated herein by reference.

(2)   Not used.

(3)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1987, and filed with the Commission March 17,
      1988, and incorporated herein by reference.

(4)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1990, and filed with the Commission March 29,
      1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

(5)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1991, and filed with the Commission March 26,
      1992, and incorporated herein by reference.

(6)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1992, and filed with the Commission March 30,
      1993, and incorporated herein by reference.

(7)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1994, and filed with the Commission March 9,
      1995, and incorporated herein by reference.

(8)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's current report on Form 8-K filed with
      the Commission September 28, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.

(9)   Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1995, and filed with the Commission March 21,
      1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

(10)  Filed as an exhibit to the company's current report on Form 8-K filed with
      the Commission January 15, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

(11)  Filed as an exhibit to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
      year ending December 31, 1996, and filed with the Commission March 21,
      1997, and incorporated herein by reference.





