10-K


w84261e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K FOR GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission file number 1-3671

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(703) 876-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment of this
Form 10-K.     Yes

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $21,471,168,789 as of
June 28, 2002.

217,537,097 shares of the registrant’s common stock were
outstanding at March 14, 2003.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Parts I and II incorporate information from certain portions of
the registrant’s Annual Report to security holders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 (the 2002 Annual
Report).

Part III incorporates information from certain portions of the
registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2003 annual
meeting of shareholders to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year.

Certain sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain
forward-looking statements, which are based on management’s
expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. Words such
as “expects,” “anticipates,”
“plans,” “believes,” “scheduled,”
“estimates” and variations of these words and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements
which include but are not limited to projections of revenues,
earnings, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards,
aircraft production, deliveries and backlog stability.
Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties, which
are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and
trends may differ materially from what is forecast in
forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors,
including, without limitation: the company’s successful
execution of internal performance plans; general U.S. and
international political and economic conditions; changing
priorities in the U.S. government defense budget; termination of
government contracts due to unilateral government action;
program performance, including the ability to perform
fixed-price contracts within estimated costs and performance
issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; changing customer
demand or preferences for business aircraft, including the
effects of economic conditions on the business aircraft market;
reliance on a large fleet customer for a significant portion of
the firm aircraft contracts backlog and the majority of the
options backlog; the status or outcome of legal and/or
regulatory proceedings; and the timing and occurrence (or
non-occurrence) of circumstances beyond the company’s
control. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the
date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated
by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written
and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the company
or any person acting on the company’s behalf are qualified
by the cautionary statements in this section. The company does
not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any
revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events,
circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this
report.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

Business Overview

General Dynamics is a Delaware corporation formed in 1952 as
successor to the Electric Boat Company. In the mid 1990’s,
the company began a series of acquisitions that expanded its
core businesses in the defense industry, broadened its expertise
in systems integration and C4ISR (command and control,
communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance) systems, and added business aviation products
and services to the company’s offerings. Since 1995, the
company has acquired 26 businesses, including three acquisitions
during 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the company entered
into a definitive agreement to acquire General Motors Defense of
London, Ontario (GM Defense), a business unit of General Motors
Corporation. The transaction closed on March 1, 2003. The
company’s businesses include mission-critical information
technology and communications, land and amphibious combat
systems, shipbuilding and marine systems, and business aviation.
These are leading-edge technology businesses that provide the
highest quality products and capabilities to the company’s
customers.

The company operates in four primary business groups —
Information Systems and Technology, Combat Systems, Marine
Systems and Aerospace — and a smaller Resources group.
Information on revenues, operating profit and identifiable
assets attributable to each of the company’s reportable
business groups is included in Note S to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 54 of the 2002 Annual Report,
filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated
herein by reference.

The company’s principal customers are the U.S. military,
other government organizations, the armed forces of allied
nations, and a diverse base of corporate and industrial buyers.
The company’s government-source revenues are significantly
linked to trends in the U.S. defense industry, and to a lesser
extent, the defense industries of foreign countries. Its
business aviation revenues are affected by global economic
conditions in general and the market for capital goods in
particular.


Since taking office in 2001, the Bush administration has
increased the U.S. defense budget to levels not seen since the
Reagan administration. For fiscal year 2003, Congress
appropriated $366 billion to the Department of Defense, an
increase of 12 percent from the fiscal year 2002
appropriation, to strengthen the U.S. military as it confronts
current threats and transforms to meet future ones. Of this
amount, $59 billion was allocated for research and
development programs, and $72 billion for
procurement — increases of 21 percent and
17 percent over the prior year’s funding levels,
respectively. For fiscal year 2004, President Bush has requested
that Congress appropriate $380 billion for the Department
of Defense, including almost $62 billion for research and
development and almost $73 billion for procurement. These
two categories of spending drive over 60 percent of the
company’s sales, and the fact that these increases have
come in spite of increasing budget deficits reflects the Bush
administration’s commitment to the military. While Congress
will ultimately decide how much to appropriate for the military
in 2004, the company expects continued support of its key
programs.

The company’s business aviation segment is subject to
overall economic conditions in the United States and has been
affected by the economic slowdown in the capital goods sector.
However, as a result of aggressive management initiatives, the
company is well-positioned to gain market share when the economy
improves. The company also markets its aircraft to the U.S.
government and international governments for special missions,
expanding the reach of this business beyond the individual and
corporate customer base.

Following is a description of the company’s products and
services by business group, competition and other related
information.

Products and Services

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

The Information Systems and Technology group is a leading
integrator of secure communication systems and networks, and
command, control and intelligence systems for the U.S. military
and its allies.

Net sales for the Information Systems and Technology group were
27 percent of the company’s consolidated net sales in
2002, 22 percent in 2001 and 23 percent in 2000. Net
sales (in millions) by major products and services were as
follows:

The Information Systems and Technology group provides defense
and commercial customers with infrastructure and systems
integration capabilities required to process, communicate and
manage information effectively. The group has leading market
positions in the design and development, integration,
deployment, and maintenance of wireline and wireless voice and
data networks; C4ISR systems; encryption; ruggedized computing;
advanced software and electronics systems development; and
lifecycle management and support.

The group’s expertise in technology, systems design and
integration, and key platform subsystems helps the
company’s other business groups improve their products.
This expertise has also positioned the company as a lead systems
integrator, delivering solutions that create decisive
communication and information-management advantages for
military, government and commercial customers around the world.
In pursuit of this vision, the company realigned the group by
common expertise and customer groups effective January 1,
2002. This resulted in the creation of five business units:
Advanced Information Systems, C4 Systems, Decision Systems,
Network Systems and General Dynamics United Kingdom Limited.


COMBAT SYSTEMS

The Combat Systems group provides systems integration, design,
development, production and support for armored vehicles,
armaments, munitions and components. Its product lines include a
full spectrum of armored vehicles, turrets and turret drive
systems; unmanned systems; suspensions, engines and
transmissions; medium-caliber guns; ammunition handling systems;
medium-and large-caliber ammunition; reactive armor; and
ordnance.

Net sales for the Combat Systems group were 21 percent of
the company’s consolidated net sales in 2002,
19 percent in 2001 and 12 percent in 2000. Net sales
(in millions) by major products and services were as follows:

The acquisition of GM Defense establishes the company as the
sole source provider under a contract with the U.S. Army to
complete development, testing, evaluation and production of up
to 2,131 eight-wheeled armored vehicles called
“Stryker” vehicles. Prior to the acquisition, the
company and GM Defense were partners in a joint venture that
delivered 356 Stryker vehicles under this contract.

The company designs and manufactures the M1 Series Abrams
Main Battle Tank for the Army and various foreign governments.
The company also performs engineering and upgrade work, and
provides support for existing armored vehicles. Under an Army
contract, the company is upgrading 307 tanks to the M1A2
SEP configuration. As of December 31, 2002, 163 tanks
remain to be upgraded, with deliveries scheduled through 2004.

The company is under contract to the U.S. Marine Corps for the
systems development and demonstration phase of the Advanced
Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAAV). Under this phase, the company
expects to complete the design and development of the AAAV,
manufacture nine new prototypes, refurbish three early
development prototypes and prepare for the production phase of
the program.

The company expects a major role in the development of the
Army’s Future Combat Systems (FCS) based on the recent
signing of a teaming agreement with The Boeing Company and
United Defense, L.P. The FCS will be the core of the Army’s
transformation into its next-generation fighting force. The
agreement forms an integrated design team for the development of
the manned ground vehicle elements of the FCS.

In Spain, the company has a contract to provide to the Spanish
army 235 Leopard main battle tanks, built under license from a
German company. The company is also scheduled to produce 181
Pizarro tracked infantry fighting vehicles, including 176
vehicles in Phase II of the program, which was awarded in 2002.

The company provides a total range of armament system
capabilities including design, development, production and
lifecycle management. Products include a wide range of medium-
and large-caliber ammunition and propellant products. The
company provides systems management and produces rockets,
warheads and motors for the Army’s 2.75-inch Hydra-70
rocket system. The company is the gun system integrator for the
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) and the systems integrator of
the Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System program, the successor
to the Hydra-70 rocket system. The company contributes advanced
composite structures to numerous aerospace platforms, including
the F-16, F-18, F-22, C-17, JSF, and unmanned aerial vehicles
such as the Global


Hawk and the Predator. The company also manufactures single- and
multi-barrel medium-caliber gun systems, individual- and
crew-served weapons, and reactive armor tiles for the Bradley
Fighting Vehicle.

MARINE SYSTEMS

The Marine Systems group provides the U.S. Navy with combat
vessels, including nuclear submarines, surface combatants and
auxiliary ships. The group also provides ship management
services for the U.S. government and builds large-hulled vessels
for commercial customers.

Net sales for the Marine Systems group were 26 percent of
the company’s consolidated net sales in 2002,
30 percent in 2001 and 33 percent in 2000. Net sales
(in millions) by major products and services were as follows:

The company designs, builds and supports nuclear submarines for
the Navy. The company has construction contracts for the first
four ships of the Virginia-class submarine program and the third
of three Seawolf-class attack submarines. Construction work on
the Virginia-class submarine is shared equally with Northrop
Grumman Newport News (NGNN).

The company also has design, engineering and construction
management responsibilities for the conversion of four
Trident-class SSBN nuclear ballistic missile submarines to
cruise missile SSGN configuration. As SSGNs, these submarines
will be delivery platforms for cruise missiles, special
operations forces and advanced payloads and sensors.

In addition to nuclear submarine design and construction, the
company performs a broad range of engineering work, including
advanced research and technology development, systems and
component design evaluation, prototype development, and
logistics support for the operating fleet. The company also
serves as ship integrator for certain components and
subassemblies of the submarines, such as electronic equipment.

The company has been awarded contracts to date for the
construction of 27 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers (DDG-51) and
plays a lead role in providing design, engineering and ongoing
lifecycle support services for these ships. The company was also
a member of a three-contractor team led by Northrop Grumman Ship
Systems (NGSS) that was awarded a contract to design and
build the Navy’s new San Antonio-class of amphibious
assault ships (LPD). In 2002, the company, the Navy and NGSS
agreed to transfer construction of four LPDs from the company to
NGSS in exchange for construction of up to four DDGs. As a
result of this swap arrangement and a multiyear agreement
awarded shortly thereafter, the company received contracts to
construct a total of seven DDGs with a total value of
$3.7 billion.

The company was one of six contractors that received a contract
from the Navy to explore advanced concepts for a Littoral Combat
Ship (LCS). The LCS is an integrated surface combatant capable
of operating in coastal areas against terrorist threats,
high-speed swarm boats, mines and diesel submarines. The LCS
program envisions ship construction beginning in 2005.

DD(X) is the Navy’s next generation family of surface
combatants. The company is a major subcontractor on the design
phase of the DD(X) program.

The company designs and builds ships for the Navy and commercial
customers. The company currently has contracts for the design
and construction of three dry-cargo combat logistics ships, with
options for up to nine additional ships, and has recently
completed the last of eight strategic sealift ships for the
Navy. Contracts with


commercial customers include the construction of two
roll-on/roll-off cargo ships and four double-hull crude oil
tankers.

The company provides ship repair and other services to the Navy
and commercial customers. The company also manages 23
ready-reserve, fast sealift and prepositioning ships for the
U.S. government.

AEROSPACE

The Aerospace group is composed of Gulfstream Aerospace
Corporation and General Dynamics Aviation Services. The
Aerospace group designs, develops, manufactures, markets, and
provides maintenance and support services for technologically
advanced business jets. The group also sells special mission
aircraft to governments around the world. Gulfstream has
delivered nearly 1,400 aircraft to customers since 1958, the
year operations began.

Net sales for the Aerospace group were 24 percent of the
company’s consolidated net sales in 2002, 27 percent
in 2001 and 29 percent in 2000. Net sales (in millions) by
major products and services were as follows:

During 2002, the company increased its product offering from
four aircraft models to seven, priced from $12 million to
$46 million. In addition to the G100 and G200 products,
added in 2001, the Aerospace group introduced the G150, G300,
G400, G500 and G550 in 2002. The Gulfstream GIV-SP, GV and GV-SP
brand names will no longer be used for future models. The
company increased its product offering to compete vigorously in
market segments in which it did not previously participate.

The Gulfstream G550 and the Gulfstream G500 serve the
large-cabin ultra-long-range market. The company believes the
G550 and G500 offer the best combination of large cabin size,
fast cruising speed and advanced avionics of any large business
jet in the ultra-long-range market segment. The Gulfstream G550
received a Provisional Type Certificate from the Federal
Aviation Administration in 2002. Initial entry into service for
the G550 is scheduled for the third quarter of 2003 and for the
G500, the first quarter of 2004. The G400 large-cabin business
jet serves the long-range market. The company believes the
G400’s large cabin, advanced technology and five-year
service and training package make it the leader in its market
segment. The G400 is scheduled to enter service in 2003. The
company believes the G300 serves an emerging market segment:
business travelers seeking an affordable large-cabin business
jet with international flight capability. The G300 is also
scheduled for entry into service in 2003. The G150, a wide-cabin
high-speed aircraft, will replace the G100 when it enters into
service in 2005. The company believes the G150 will offer the
best range and speed of any aircraft in its market segment.

This expanded product offering reduced the company’s
product pricing separation from a $10 million average to a
$5 million average between each aircraft model. This
created a new buying opportunity for customers by offering
greater value compared with competitors’ products.

Gulfstream Product Support provides an integrated worldwide
network of company-owned service centers, parts depots, and
field and technical representatives able to meet customer needs
at any time. Gulfstream Airborne Product Support is an
industry-exclusive customer service provided to support warranty
aircraft. Additional Gulfstream authorized third party service
centers provide customers extended product support coverage.
General Dynamics Aviation Services provides aircraft maintenance
services, spares and technical support for Challengers, Falcons,
Gulfstreams, Hawkers and other business jet aircraft. In an
effort to grow the service business, five strategically located
facilities service and support both Gulfstream aircraft and
competitors’ aircraft.


The Aerospace group routinely accepts pre-owned aircraft in
trade to facilitate the sale of new Gulfstream aircraft. These
aircraft are then resold by the company in the pre-owned market.

RESOURCES

The company’s Resources businesses consist of a coal mining
operation, an aggregates operation and a leasing operation for
liquefied natural gas tankers. Net sales for these businesses
represented approximately 2 percent of the company’s
consolidated net sales in 2002 and 2001 and 3 percent of
consolidated sales in 2000. Net sales (in millions) were $286 in
2002, $276 in 2001 and $253 in 2000.

Competition

Virtually all of the products produced and sold by the company
are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing
and system integration techniques and capabilities.
Additionally, the product and program needs of the
company’s government and commercial customers regularly
change and evolve. The company’s ability to successfully
compete is highly dependent on the technical excellence and
reliability of its products and services, its reputation for
integrating complex systems, the ability of its leadership team
to successfully manage the company’s businesses and respond
to the changing needs of its customers, and the cost
competitiveness of its products and services.

DEFENSE CONTRACTS

The company’s defense businesses are subject to substantial
competition from domestic and foreign entities ranging from
large defense contractors to smaller companies. A variety of
factors determine the results of different competitions
including, price, technological capabilities, past performance
and customer confidence. The company also is frequently a
partner with, or subcontractor to, a defense supplier on one
project, with which it is competing for another award. These
strategic partnerships and relationships improve the
company’s ability to obtain new business, but also make it
crucial for the company to distinguish itself from its
competitors.

With respect to the market in which the Information Systems and
Technology group participates, the company competes with a broad
range of entities ranging in size from large defense industry
participants to smaller niche competitors that have specialized
technologies. In the market it serves, the Combat Systems group
faces a variety of major domestic and foreign competitors in
each of its operating units. Additionally, the company is
partnered with two large defense contractors on the manned
vehicle portion of the Future Combat Systems program. The Marine
Systems group has one primary competitor with which the company
is also teamed on several programs including the Virginia-class
submarine construction contract.

BUSINESS AIRCRAFT

The business aircraft market generally is divided into segments
based on the cabin size and range of the aircraft. The Aerospace
group offers a total of seven products in the following market
segments: mid-cabin high speed; wide-cabin high-speed;
large-cabin mid-range; large-cabin long-range; and large-cabin
ultra-long-range.

The G100 mid-cabin high-speed business jet and the G150
wide-cabin high-speed business jet compete in the
$12 million to $14 million pricing segment. The G150
will offer many of the same performance and range features as
the G100, but will have a wider and longer cabin. It is
scheduled to enter service in 2005. Both the G100 and G150
compete with the Raytheon Hawker 800XP, the Bombardier Learjet
60 and the Cessna Citation Sovereign. The G200 large-cabin
mid-range business jet competes in the $16 million to
$21 million pricing segment against Bombardier’s
Challenger 300, Raytheon’s Hawker Horizon, Dassault’s
Falcon 50EX, Cessna’s Citation X and Embraer’s Legacy.

The G300 large-cabin mid-range business jet, another new entry
in the Gulfstream fleet, competes in the $21 million to
$27 million pricing segment. The G300 is expected to enter
service in 2003 and will compete with Bombardier’s
Challenger 604 and Dassault’s Falcon 2000EX. The G400
large-cabin long-range business jet, scheduled to enter service
in 2003, competes in the $29 million to $33 million
pricing segment against Dassault’s Falcon 900C and Falcon
900EX. The G500 large-cabin ultra-long-range business jet
competes in the $35 million


to $38 million pricing segment. The G500 is expected to
enter service in early 2004. The G550 large-cabin
ultra-long-range business jet competes in the $43 million
to $46 million pricing segment. The G550 is expected to enter
service in 2003 and competes with Bombardier’s Global
Express and to a large degree the Boeing Business Jet.

The company believes it competes favorably in its markets on the
basis of the performance characteristics of its aircraft, the
quality and timeliness of the service it provides, its advanced
technology, and its innovative marketing programs.

Customers

Historically, the majority of the company’s sales have been
to U.S. government agencies. In 2002, 64 percent of the
company’s net sales were to the U.S. government, either as
a prime contractor or as a subcontractor; 23 percent were
to U.S. commercial customers; 6 percent were to
international commercial customers; and the remaining
7 percent were directly to international defense customers.

U.S. GOVERNMENT

Net sales to the U.S. government include Foreign Military Sales
(FMS), which are sales to foreign governments through the U.S.
government, whereby the company contracts with and receives
payment from the U.S. government and the U.S. government assumes
the risk of collection from the customer. U.S. government sales
(in millions) were as follows:

The company’s U.S. government products and programs must
compete with the products and programs of other defense
contractors as well as the non-defense spending priorities of
the U.S. government. The funding of government programs is
dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, and may be affected by changes in government
policies resulting from various military and political
developments. The company’s U.S. government business is
sensitive to changes in national and international priorities
and the budget of the U.S. government.

In addition, U.S. government defense contracts typically involve
long lead times for design and development, and are subject to
significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally
appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program
may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often
only partially funded initially, and additional funds are
committed only as Congress makes further appropriations,
therefore making U.S. government programs subject to uncertain
future funding levels.

The company’s U.S. government business is performed under
both cost-reimbursement (sometimes referred to as
“cost-type”) and fixed-price contracts. Contracts for
research, engineering, prototypes, repair and maintenance are
often cost-reimbursement arrangements, under which the customer
reimburses the company for allowable costs and pays a
predetermined fee. A large percentage of the company’s
production contracts are fixed-price arrangements, pursuant to
which the company agrees to perform a specific scope of work for
a fixed amount. For the year ended December 31, 2002,
cost-type and fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately
46 percent and 54 percent, respectively, of the
company’s defense business.

Cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts present their own
advantages and disadvantages for the company. Cost-type
arrangements generally involve lower risk for the company, and
sometimes involve fee schedules that allow the company to obtain
increased payments for satisfying certain performance criteria.
However, not all of the company’s costs are recoverable
under these types of contracts, and the government


typically has the right to object to the company’s costs as
not allowable or unreasonable, which can increase the
company’s risk. Fixed-price arrangements generally provide
the company with greater profit potential if it can complete the
work for less than the contract amount. However, fixed-price
contracts also put the company at risk for potential cost
overruns.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

Commercial sales (in millions) to domestic customers were $3,235
in 2002, $3,555 in 2001 and $3,158 in 2000. These sales
represented approximately 23 percent of the company’s
consolidated net sales in 2002, 29 percent in 2001, and
31 percent in 2000. The majority of the company’s
commercial sales were for Gulfstream aircraft to national and
multinational corporations. These sales are to many of the
Fortune 500 public companies, large privately held companies and
wealthy individuals. The aircraft are operated by customers in a
wide spectrum of industries, including pharmaceuticals, consumer
goods, high technology, energy, industrial manufacturing,
finance, insurance, real estate, mining, transportation,
communications, public utilities and retail.

The company has an agreement with an unaffiliated customer,
NetJets Inc. (NetJets), a unit of Berkshire Hathaway and the
leader in the fractional market, for the sale of aircraft for
use in its fractional ownership program. Sales to NetJets were
approximately 6 percent of the Aerospace group’s sales
in 2002 and approximately 9 percent of the group’s
sales in both 2001 and 2000.

INTERNATIONAL

Direct international sales (in millions) to both defense and
commercial customers were $1,788 in 2002, $1,180 in 2001 and
$967 in 2000. These sales represented approximately
13 percent of the company’s consolidated net sales in
2002, 10 percent in 2001, and 9 percent in 2000.
International defense sales were derived primarily from the
company’s subsidiaries located abroad. International
commercial sales were related primarily to the export of
business aircraft. The company owns operations located in
Canada, the U.K., Spain and Germany. For the year ended
December 31, 2002, sales and operating earnings from
international operations were 7 percent and 6 percent
of consolidated sales and operating earnings, respectively.
Identifiable assets of operations domiciled outside the U.S.
were 8 percent of total identifiable assets as of
December 31, 2002, 7 percent as of December 31,
2001, and 4 percent as of December 31, 2000. At
December 31, 2002, these assets consisted primarily of cash
and intangible assets, including goodwill.

For information regarding sales by geographic region, see Note S
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 54 of the 2002
Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference.

Suppliers

The company is dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for
raw materials and a large number of components used in the
production of its products. In some instances, the company is
dependent on one or a few sources of supply. A disruption in
deliveries from its suppliers, therefore, could have an adverse
effect on the company’s ability to meet its commitments to
customers. The company has not experienced, and does not foresee
any, difficulty in obtaining the materials, components or
supplies necessary for its business operations.

Research and Development

The company’s defense and business aviation operations
conduct independent research and development activities, which
include bid and proposal work. The company’s defense
businesses also conduct research and development activities
under U.S. government contracts. These research efforts have
been and continue to be concerned with developing products for
large systems development programs and performing work under
research and development technology contracts.

Research and development activities of the company’s
defense businesses represented the majority of company-sponsored
expenditures in each of the past three years. A significant
portion of these expenditures is recovered through overhead
charges pursuant to U.S. government contracts. Research and
development activities


of the Aerospace group are internally funded product enhancement
and product development programs for Gulfstream aircraft.

Research and development expenditures (in millions) were as
follows:

Backlog

Summary backlog information (in millions) for each business
group is as follows:

For further discussion of backlog, see Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of the Results of Operations and
Financial Condition on pages 21 through 35 of the 2002 Annual
Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference.

DEFENSE BUSINESSES

The total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value
of work to be performed under firm contracts. The funded backlog
for government programs represents those items that have been
authorized and appropriated by Congress and funded by the
procuring agency. The unfunded backlog represents firm orders
for which funding has not been appropriated. To the extent the
backlog has not been funded, there is no assurance that
congressional appropriations or agency allotments will be
forthcoming.

AEROSPACE

The Aerospace funded backlog represents orders for which the
company has entered into definitive purchase contracts and has
received deposits from the customers. The Aerospace unfunded
backlog includes options to purchase new aircraft and agreements
to provide future aircraft maintenance and support services.
Forty-three percent of the Aerospace funded backlog is with
commercial customers other than NetJets. The backlog with
NetJets represents 53 percent of the Aerospace funded backlog.
The remaining 4 percent of the Aerospace funded backlog is with
government customers. NetJets represents substantially all of
Aerospace option backlog. Deliveries of aircraft to NetJets are
scheduled from 2003 through 2010 and represent approximately
7 percent to 15 percent of projected annual new aircraft
sales during that period.


Regulatory Matters

U.S. GOVERNMENT DEFENSE CONTRACTS

In 2002, over 60 percent of the company’s net sales
were to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or as
a subcontractor. Generally, government contracts are subject to
oversight audits by government representatives and contain
provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, at the
government’s convenience or for default. If a contract is
terminated at the convenience of the U.S. government, a
contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable
costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or
earnings for the work done. Contracts that are terminated for
default generally provide that the government only pays for the
work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for
the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the
contractor liable for damages.

The company’s government businesses are also subject to a
number of procurement laws and regulations. Failure to comply
with these regulations and requirements can result in civil,
criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines,
penalties, suspension of payments, and suspension or debarment
from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of
time.

BUSINESS AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to regulation by the Federal
Aviation Administration in the United States and other similar
aviation regulatory authorities throughout the world. For an
aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must have
received a Type Certificate from the appropriate aviation
authority, and each individual aircraft must have also received
a Certificate of Airworthiness. Maintenance facilities are also
required to be licensed by aviation authorities. Aviation
authorities have the power to require changes to aircraft if
deemed necessary for safety purposes.

ENVIRONMENTAL

The company’s operations are subject to and affected by a
variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws
and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage,
disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials,
substances and wastes. The company continually assesses its
compliance status and management of other environmental matters.
The company believes that its operations are in substantial
compliance with all applicable environmental laws and
regulations.

Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental
compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal,
recurring part of the company’s operations. These costs are
not significant relative to total operating costs or cash flows
and often are allowable costs under the company’s contracts
with the U.S. government. These costs have not been material in
the past and, based on information presently available to the
company and U.S. government policies relating to allowable costs
in effect at this time, all of which are subject to change, the
company does not expect continued compliance to have a material
impact on the company’s results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.


Under existing U.S. environmental laws, “Potentially
Responsible Parties” (PRP) are jointly and severally
liable, and therefore, the company is potentially liable to the
government or third parties for the full cost of remediating
contamination at the company’s facilities or former
facilities or at third-party sites where the company has been
designated a PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency or a
state environmental agency. In the unlikely event that the
company is required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the
statutory framework would allow the company to pursue rights to
contribution from other PRPs. Additional information relating to
the impact of environmental controls is included in Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings — Environmental” on
page 20 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002.

Intellectual Property

The company is an established leader in the development of
innovative products, manufacturing technologies and systems
integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio
of proprietary intellectual property, the company also licenses
certain intellectual property rights of third parties, including
the U.S. government. Additionally, in many cases, the U.S.
government licenses the company’s patents, pursuant to
which the government may use or authorize others to use the
inventions covered by the patents. Although these intellectual
property rights are important to the operation of the
company’s business, no existing patent, license or other
intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss
or termination would, in the opinion of management, have a
material impact on the company’s business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, the company had approximately
54,000 employees, of whom 32 percent were covered by
collective bargaining agreements with various unions, the most
significant of which are the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the Marine Draftsmen’s
Association, the Metal Trades Council of New London,
Connecticut, and the United Auto Workers Union. Agreements
covering less than 1 percent of total employees are due to
expire during 2003.

Available Information

The company makes available free of charge its annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the filing has been made with the
SEC. Reports may be obtained through the company’s website
at GeneralDynamics.com or by calling investor relations at
(703) 876-3000.

These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20599. Information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (SEC.gov) that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
SEC.


Executive Officers of The Registrant

All executive officers of the company are elected annually. No
executive officer of the company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between the officer and any other
person. The name, age, offices and positions held for the last
five years of the company’s executive officers as of
March 14, 2003 were as follows:




Item 2.

Properties

Principal Business Groups.

A summary of floor space
(square feet in millions) at the main facilities of the
Information Systems and Technology, Combat Systems, Marine
Systems and Aerospace business groups as of December 31,
2002, follows:


Other Properties.

Freeman Energy operates two underground
coal mines and one surface coal mine in Illinois. Coal
preparation facilities and rail loading facilities are located
at each mine sufficient for its output.


Material Service operates several stone quarries, as well as
sand and gravel pits and yards in the Chicago, Illinois and
Indiana areas for its aggregates business.

The company owns approximately 225 acres of property in Rancho
Cucamonga, California, of which approximately 60 acres is
undeveloped.

General.

The company believes that its main facilities
are adequate for the present needs of the company and its
subsidiaries and, as supplemented by planned improvements and
construction, are expected to remain adequate for the
foreseeable future.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

The company is subject to litigation and other legal proceedings
arising out of the ordinary course of its business or arising
under provisions relating to the protection of the environment.

The company is primarily engaged in providing products and
services under contracts with the U.S. government and, to a
lesser degree, under direct foreign sales contracts, some of
which are funded by the U.S. government. These contracts are
subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from
time to time, agencies of the U.S. government investigate
whether the company’s operations are being conducted in
accordance with these requirements. The company does not believe
that the outcome of any such government investigations will have
a material impact on the company’s results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows.

Termination of A-12 Program

In January 1991, the Navy terminated the company’s A-12
aircraft contract for default. The A-12 contract was a
fixed-price incentive contract for the full-scale development
and initial production of the Navy’s carrier-based Advanced
Tactical Aircraft. Both the company and McDonnell Douglas, now
owned by The Boeing Company, (the contractors) were parties to
the contract with the Navy; each had full responsibility to the
Navy for performance under the contract; and both are jointly
and severally liable for potential liabilities arising from the
termination. As a consequence of the termination for default,
the Navy demanded that the contractors repay $1.4 billion
in unliquidated progress payments, but agreed to defer
collection of the amount pending a decision by the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims on the contractors’ challenge to the
termination for default, or a negotiated settlement.

The contractors filed a complaint on June 7, 1991, in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims contesting the default termination.
In December 1994, the court issued an order vacating the
termination for default. On December 19, 1995, following
further proceedings, the court issued an order converting the
termination for default to a termination for convenience. On
March 31, 1998, a final judgment was entered in favor of
the contractors for $1.2 billion plus interest.

On July 1, 1999, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit found that the Trial Court erred in converting the
termination for default to a termination for convenience without
first determining whether a default existed. The Court of
Appeals remanded the case for determination of whether the
government’s default termination was justified. On
August 31, 2001, following the trial on remand, the Trial
Court issued an opinion upholding the default termination of the
A-12 contract. In its opinion, the Trial Court rejected all of
the government’s arguments to sustain the default
termination except for one: schedule. With respect to the
government’s schedule arguments, the Trial Court held that
the schedule the government unilaterally imposed


was reasonable and enforceable, and that the government had not
waived that schedule. On the sole ground that the contractors
were not going to deliver the first aircraft on the date
provided in the unilateral schedule, the Trial Court upheld the
default termination and entered judgment for the government.

The contractors filed post-trial motions seeking reconsideration
by the Trial Court of its opinion and judgment. On
October 4, 2001, the Trial Court denied the
contractors’ post-trial motions. On November 30, 2001,
the company filed its notice of appeal, and during 2002, the
contractors and the Navy filed their respective appellate briefs
with the Court of Appeals. On January 9, 2003, the appeal
was argued before a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals.

Following the August 31, 2001, decision of the Trial Court,
the Navy and the contractors discussed the continued deferral of
the payment of the $1.4 billion in unliquidated progress
payments, plus interest, by an extension of the deferment
agreement between the parties pursuant to which the Navy had
deferred collection since 1991. No agreement was reached
concerning this issue, though the contractors do not believe
that the Trial Court’s decision triggers their obligation
to make payment to the Navy. The Navy took no action to collect
this amount from the contractors and settlement negotiations
were conducted by the parties. On August 30, 2002, the Navy
notified the contractors in writing that unless they paid,
within 30 days, these unliquidated progress payments plus
interest (approximately $2.3 billion), it would turn the
matter over to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service for
collection. The contractors have advised the Navy that they
would resist collection as improper. In light of the Navy’s
collection demand, the contractors requested the Trial Court to
enter a stay of its judgment pending the outcome of the appeal.
On December 13, 2002, the Trial Court agreed and entered a
stay of its judgment pending appeal.

On March 17, 2003, the Court of Appeals vacated the Trial
Court’s judgment and remanded the case to the Trial Court
for further proceedings. The Court of Appeals found that the
Trial Court misapplied the controlling legal standard in
concluding that the termination for default could be sustained
solely on the basis of the contractors’ inability to
complete the first flight of the first test aircraft by December
1991. Rather, the Court of Appeals held that in order to uphold
a termination for default a Trial Court would have to determine
that there was no reasonable likelihood that the contractors
could perform the entire contract effort within the time
remaining for performance. This is a determination the company
does not believe is supported by the evidence.

If, contrary to the company’s expectations, the default
termination is ultimately sustained, the contractors could be
required to repay the government as much as $1.4 billion
for progress payments received for the A-12 contract plus
interest (approximately $1 billion at December 31,
2002). This would result in liability of approximately
$1.2 billion pretax, $685 million after-tax, to be
taken as a charge against discontinued operations. The company
has sufficient resources to pay such an obligation if required.

False Claims Act

On May 7, 1999, a whistleblower suit was filed under seal
against the company in the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the District of South Carolina. The plaintiff alleges that the
company violated the False Claims Act by omitting certain facts
when it testified before Congress in 1995 concerning funding for
the third Seawolf-attack submarine. The plaintiff sought damages
in the amount of the contract award for the third Seawolf,
subject to trebling under the False Claims Act. The Department
of Justice declined to intervene in the case on the
plaintiff’s behalf and the suit was unsealed in December
2000. The complaint was removed to the United States District
Court for the District of South Carolina. On October 15,
2002, the District Court entered an order granting the
company’s motions for summary judgment and directed the
court to enter judgment on behalf of the company. The plaintiff
may appeal the judgment. The company believes that any such
motion or appeal by the plaintiff is likely to be denied.

Avolar

Following UAL Corporation’s announcement on March 22,
2002, that it was closing its Avolar subsidiary, which was to
engage in a business jet aircraft fractional ownership program,
the company terminated its agreements with Avolar. The company
retained deposits totaling $50 million related to this
transaction. On May 28, 2002, United BizJet Holdings, Inc.,
a subsidiary of UAL Corporation, filed a claim against the
company


in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, seeking the
return of the Avolar deposits. On October 11, 2002, the
Circuit Court dismissed United BizJet’s complaint without
prejudice for failure to engage in mandatory pre-litigation
mediation. United BizJet moved for reconsideration, but on
January 3, 2003, the Circuit Court denied reconsideration
and reaffirmed its order of dismissal. On December 9, 2002,
United BizJet filed for reorganization pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The
company believes the outcome of this matter will not have a
material impact on the company’s results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows.

Environmental

The company’s operations are subject to and affected by a
variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws
and regulations. The company is directly or indirectly involved
in environmental responses at some of the company’s current
and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by the
company but where the company has been designated a PRP by the
EPA or a state environmental agency. The company is also
involved in the investigation, cleanup and remediation of
various conditions at current and former company sites where the
release of hazardous materials may have occurred. Based on
historical experience, the company expects that a significant
percentage of the total remediation and compliance costs
associated with these facilities will continue to be allowable
costs and, therefore, reimbursed by the U.S. government. Based
on a site-by-site review and analyses by outside counsel and
environmental consultants, the company believes that its
liability at any individual site, or in the aggregate, arising
from such sites at which there is a known environmental
condition, or Superfund or other multi-party sites at which the
company is a PRP, is not material to the company’s results
of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Moreover,
based on all known facts and expert analyses, the company does
not believe that the range of reasonably possible additional
loss beyond what has been recorded would be material to the
company’s results of operations, financial condition or
cash flows.

Other

Various claims and other legal proceedings generally incidental
to the normal course of business are pending or threatened
against the company. While the company cannot predict the
outcome of these matters, the company believes its potential
liabilities in these proceedings, individually or in the
aggregate, will not have a material impact on the company’s
results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters
to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the company’s
security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended
December 31, 2002.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for the
Company’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

The company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange.

The high and low sales prices of the company’s common stock
and the cash dividends declared with respect to the
company’s common stock for each quarterly period during the
two most recent fiscal years are included in Note T to the
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 55 of
the 2002 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.

Selected Financial
Data

The “Selected Financial Data” appearing on page 60 of
the 2002 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this
item.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the Results
    of Operations and Financial Condition

The “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the
Results of Operations and Financial Condition” appearing on
pages 21 through 35 of the 2002 Annual Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and
Qualitative Information about Market Risk

The information appearing under the caption “Market
Risk” on page 33 of the 2002 Annual Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item.

Item 8.

Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report appearing on
pages 36 through 59 of the 2002 Annual Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002, are incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item.


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

On June 4, 2002 Arthur Andersen LLP informed the company
that it would no longer be able to fulfill its services as the
company’s independent auditors. As a result, on
June 5, 2002, upon the recommendation of the company’s
Audit Committee, the Board of Directors appointed KPMG LLP to
serve as the company’s independent auditors for the year
ended December 31, 2002. The change in auditors was
effective immediately.

Arthur Andersen’s reports on the company’s
consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2000 and 2001
did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor
were such reports qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit
scope or accounting principles. During 2000 and 2001 and through
the date of Arthur Andersen’s resignation, there were:
(i) no disagreements with Arthur Andersen on any matter of
accounting principle or practice, financial statement
disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure which, if not
resolved to Arthur Andersen’s satisfaction, would have
caused them to make reference to the subject matter of the
disagreement in connection with its report on the company’s
consolidated financial statements for such years; and
(ii) no “reportable events” (as such term is
defined in the regulations to the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).

During 2000 and 2001 and through the date of Arthur
Andersen’s resignation, the company did not consult KPMG
with respect to the application of accounting principles to a
specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type
of audit opinion that might be rendered on the company’s
consolidated financial statements, or any matter or reportable
event.

There were no disagreements with KPMG on accounting and
financial disclosure for the company’s consolidated
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required to be set forth herein, except for a
list of the executive officers that is provided in Part I of
this report, is included in the sections entitled “Election
of the Board of Directors of the Company” and “Other
Information — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in the company’s definitive
proxy statement for its 2003 shareholders meeting (the Proxy
Statement), which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the section entitled “Executive Compensation” in the
company’s Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the sections entitled “Security Ownership of
Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners” in the company’s Proxy Statement,
which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

The information required to be set forth herein with respect to
securities for issuance under the company’s equity
compensation plans is included in the section entitled
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the
company’s Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the section entitled “Election of the Board of Directors of
the Company – Transactions Involving Directors and the
Company” in the company’s Proxy Statement, which
section is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Controls and
Procedures

The company’s management, under the supervision and with
the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the company’s disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). This
evaluation was made within 90 days prior to the filing of
this Annual Report (the Evaluation Date). Based on this
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date, the
company’s disclosure controls and procedures are adequate
and effective and designed to ensure that material information
relating to the company, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to them by others within these
entities.

There were no significant changes in the company’s internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect
these controls subsequent to the Evaluation Date. As no
significant deficiencies or material weaknesses were found, no
corrective actions were taken.


Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1. Financial Statements

The Independent Auditors’ Report and Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing in the 2002 Annual Report on the pages
listed in the following index are included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, as
Exhibit 13, and are incorporated herein by reference.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

No schedules are submitted because they are either not
applicable or not required, or because the required information
is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the
Notes thereto.

3. Exhibits

See Index on pages 28 through 29 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended 2002.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

On December 19, 2002, the company reported to the
Securities and Exchange Commission under Item 5, Other
Events, that the company had entered into a definitive agreement
to acquire General Motors Defense for $1.1 billion in cash.
The consummation of the transaction was effective March 1,
2003.

On December 3, 2002, the company reported to the Securities
and Exchange Commission under Item 5, Other Events, that on
December 2, 2002, the Department of Defense informed the
company and The Boeing Company that it intended to deduct
approximately $2.3 billion from payments due the companies
for work on various military programs. This payment represents
the amount the Department of Defense claims the companies owe in
the A-12 aircraft case. The company was granted a stay of that
collection effort through the courts.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

By: /s/ JOHN W. SCHWARTZ

John W. Schwartz

Vice President and Controller

March 24, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, this report has been signed below on
March 24, 2003, by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including a majority
of the directors.

* By David A. Savner pursuant to a Power of Attorney
executed by the directors listed above, which Power of Attorney
has been filed as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by
reference thereto.

/s/ DAVID A. SAVNER

_______________________________________

David A. Savner

Secretary


CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Nicholas D. Chabraja, certify that:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
    material information relating to the registrant, including its
    consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
    those entities, particularly during the period in which this
    annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
    controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior
    to the filing date of this annual report (the Evaluation Date);
    and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
    effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on
    our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5)

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the
    registrant’s board of directors:

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
    internal controls which could adversely affect the
    registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant’s internal controls; and

6)

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have
    indicated in this annual report whether or not there were
    significant changes in internal controls or in other factors
    that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
    the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
    actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
    weaknesses.

Date: March 24, 2003

/s/ NICHOLAS D. CHABRAJA

_______________________________________

Nicholas D. Chabraja

Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


I, Michael J. Mancuso, certify that:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
    material information relating to the registrant, including its
    consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
    those entities, particularly during the period in which this
    annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
    controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior
    to the filing date of this annual report (the Evaluation Date);
    and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
    effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on
    our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5)

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the
    registrant’s board of directors:

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
    internal controls which could adversely affect the
    registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant’s internal controls; and

6)

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have
    indicated in this annual report whether or not there were
    significant changes in internal controls or in other factors
    that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
    the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
    actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
    weaknesses.

Date: March 24, 2003

/s/ MICHAEL J. MANCUSO

_______________________________________

Michael J. Mancuso

Sr. Vice President & Chief Financial Officer


INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibits listed below, which have been filed with the Commission
pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and which were
filed as noted below, are hereby incorporated by reference and
made a part of this report with the same effect as if filed
herewith.


*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c) of
    Form 10-K.

**

Filed herewith.

29