10-K


w46524e10-k.htm

GENERAL DYNAMICS FORM 10-K

e10-k


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2000

OR

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition Period from
            to

Commission File Number 1-3671

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(703) 876-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment of this Form 10-K.

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was $13,172,746,326 at
March 8, 2001.

200,368,867 shares of the registrant’s common stock were
outstanding at March 8, 2001.

Documents Incorporated By Reference:

Parts I and II incorporate information from certain portions of
the registrant’s Annual Report to security holders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2000 (the 2000 Annual
Report).

Part III incorporates information from certain portions of the
registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2001 annual
meeting of shareholders to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year.


Certain sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain
forward-looking statements, which are based on management’s
expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. Words such
as “expects,” “anticipates,”
“plans,” “believes,” “scheduled,”
“estimates,” variations of these words and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements
which include but are not limited to projections of revenues,
earnings, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards,
aircraft production, deliveries and backlog stability.
Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties, which
are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and
trends may differ materially from what is forecast in
forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors,
including, without limitation: the company’s successful
execution of internal performance plans; changing priorities or
reductions in the U.S. government defense budget; termination of
government contracts due to unilateral government action;
changing customer demand or preferences for business aircraft;
changes from the company’s expectations with respect to its
customers’ exercise of business aircraft options;
performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors; the
status or outcome of legal and/or regulatory proceedings; the
status or outcome of labor negotiations; and the timing and
occurrence (or non-occurrence) of circumstances beyond the
company’s control.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

Business Overview

The company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1952 as
successor to the Electric Boat Company. The company’s
primary businesses focus on shipbuilding and marine systems,
business aviation, information systems, and land and amphibious
combat systems. Each of these businesses involves design,
manufacturing and program management expertise, advanced
technology, and integration of complex systems. The primary
customers for the company’s businesses are the United
States military, the armed forces of allied nations, other
government organizations and a diverse base of corporate and
industrial buyers.

During the early 1990’s, while the defense industry was
consolidating through mergers and acquisitions, the company
divested its tactical military aircraft, missile systems and
space launch systems businesses, as well as its Cessna aircraft
operations. In the mid 1990’s, the company began a series
of acquisitions that primarily focused on defense and either
directly related to its core businesses or provided
opportunities within its core competencies. The company operates
in four primary business groups: Marine Systems, Aerospace,
Information Systems and Technology, and Combat Systems. The
company also owns certain commercial operations, which are
identified for reporting purposes as Other.

Information on revenues, operating profit and identifiable
assets attributable to each of the company’s reportable
business groups is included in Note S to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 49 of the 2000 Annual Report, filed
as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2000, and is incorporated
herein by reference. A description of the company’s
products and services by business group, competition, and other
related information follows.

Products and Services

Marine Systems

Marine Systems is the U.S. Navy’s leading supplier of
combat vessels, including nuclear submarines, surface combatants
and auxiliary ships. It has the broadest range of integration,
design, engineering and production skills in naval shipbuilding.
It also supplies niche commercial shipbuilding markets and
manages 23 ready-reserve, fast sealift and prepositioning ships
for the U.S. government. Marine Systems includes the
company’s Electric Boat Corporation, Bath Iron Works
Corporation, National Steel and Shipbuilding Company, and
American Overseas Marine Corporation subsidiaries.



Net sales for Marine Systems represent approximately 34% of the
company’s consolidated net sales for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Net sales (in
millions) by major products and services are as follows:

Electric Boat designs, builds and supports nuclear submarines
for the U.S. Navy, having construction contracts for the first
four ships of the Virginia-class submarine and the third of
three Seawolf-class attack submarines. Construction work on the
Virginia-class will be shared equally between Electric Boat as
the prime contractor and Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. as
subcontractor. In addition to nuclear submarine design and
construction, Electric Boat performs a broad range of
engineering work, including advanced research and technology
development, systems and component design evaluation, prototype
development and logistics support for the operating fleet.
Electric Boat also serves as ship integrator for certain
components and subassemblies of the submarines, such as
electronic equipment.

Bath Iron Works has been awarded contracts to date for the
construction of 27 Arleigh Burke class destroyers (DDG 51)
and plays a lead role in providing design, engineering, and
ongoing life cycle support services for these ships. Bath Iron
Works is a member of a three-contractor team that was awarded a
contract in 1996 to design and build the Navy’s new class
of amphibious assault ships (LPD 17), and it has a contract
for the construction of the third ship of the class,
LPD 19. Along with Ingalls Shipbuilding, a division of
Litton Industries, Inc., Bath Iron Works is a member of the
DD 21 Shipbuilder Alliance, which has been awarded
contracts to date for the first two phases of system concept
design work for the next generation surface combatant
(DD 21). Bath Iron Works is serving as the Alliance prime
contractor for these phases, is leading one of the
Alliance’s two competing design teams and is expected to
share equally with Ingalls Shipbuilding in the production of the
DD 21.

National Steel and Shipbuilding Company designs, builds and
repairs ships for the U.S. Navy and commercial customers.
National Steel and Shipbuilding Company has been awarded
contracts to date for the design and construction of 8 sealift
ships for the U.S. Navy and contracts with commercial customers
for the construction of two cargo ships and three double-hull
crude oil tankers.

Aerospace

Aerospace was the result of the acquisition of Gulfstream
Aerospace Corporation (Gulfstream) on July 30, 1999. It is
the leading designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of
technologically advanced intercontinental business jet aircraft.
The acquisition of Gulfstream was accounted for as a pooling of
interests, and, accordingly, the consolidated financial
statements of the company for periods prior to the combination
include the accounts and results of operations of Gulfstream.

Net sales for Aerospace represent approximately 30% of the
company’s consolidated net sales for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Net sales (in
millions) by major product are as follows:

Gulfstream has produced approximately 1,230 aircraft for
customers around the world and offers a range of aircraft
products and services. Gulfstream’s primary products are
the Gulfstream IV-SP, which serves the



large-cabin business jet aircraft market, the Gulfstream V,
which serves the ultra-long range market, and the recently
announced Gulfstream V-SP, which will serve the ultra-long range
market and begin customer delivery in 2003. Gulfstream has
received a total of 468 orders plus 16 options for the
Gulfstream IV/ IV-SP, and has manufactured and delivered 435 of
these aircraft through December 2000. Gulfstream has
received a total of 153 orders plus 2 options for the
Gulfstream V, and has manufactured and delivered 126 of
these aircraft through December 2000. As of December 31,
2000, Gulfstream has 30 Gulfstream V-SP firm contracts in
backlog. See “Backlog” for a description of Gulfstream
options.

The Gulfstream IV-SP can accommodate up to 19 passengers, has a
range of up to 4,220 nautical miles and a cruising speed of up
to Mach .85. These capabilities permit routine
intercontinental travel at cruising speeds comparable to
commercial airline cruising speeds, while operating efficiently
at altitudes as high as 45,000 feet, flying above commercial
airline traffic and most adverse weather. The company believes
that the Gulfstream IV-SP offers the best combination of large
cabin size, long range, fast cruising speed and technologically
advanced avionics of any large business jet aircraft in its
market segment.

The Gulfstream V has a maximum operating speed of Mach .885. It
can accommodate up to 19 passengers and has a range of up to
6,500 nautical miles. These capabilities permit routine
intercontinental travel at cruising speeds comparable to
commercial airline cruising speeds, while operating efficiently
at altitudes as high as 51,000 feet, flying above commercial
airline traffic and most adverse weather. The Gulfstream V is
versatile enough to fly long-range missions, such as New York to
Tokyo in approximately 14 hours, as well as high-speed
missions, such as New York to London, in approximately six
hours. To date, the Gulfstream V has set 65 world and national
records. As confirmation of the product’s innovative design
and outstanding performance, the Gulfstream V received the
1997 Robert J. Collier Trophy for aeronautical achievement
and was selected by the U.S. Air Force to provide
intercontinental transportation for senior government officials
and dignitaries.

The Gulfstream V-SP was announced in October 2000. The
Gulfstream V-SP will feature Gulfstream’s PlaneView,
the industry’s most advanced cockpit avionics suite.
PlaneView integrates cursor-controlled avionics, large flat
panel liquid crystal instrument displays, a Visual Guidance
System and an Enhanced Vision System. The Gulfstream V-SP will
offer increased range, increased mission flexibility for both
ultra-long range and high-speed long-range flights, reduced
takeoff field length, and increased cabin and baggage space. The
Gulfstream V-SP will accommodate up to 19 passengers at cruise
speeds of up to Mach .885. It will have a range of 6,750
nautical miles at Mach .80; 6,000 nautical miles at Mach .85;
and 5,000 nautical miles at Mach .87.

Gulfstream also provides worldwide aircraft maintenance services
and technical support for both Gulfstream and other business
aircraft by integrating a network of company-owned service
centers, three levels of authorized third-party service
providers, worldwide parts depots, worldwide service
representatives and 24 hour-a-day technical/aircraft on the
ground support. There are currently almost 1,000 Gulfstream
aircraft in service. On February 15, 2001, Gulfstream
acquired certain net assets of BBA North America, which operates
four aircraft maintenance facilities located in Dallas, TX; Las
Vegas, NV; Minneapolis, MN; and West Palm Beach, FL. The new
service and maintenance operations is known as General Dynamics
Aviation Services.

In 1998, Gulfstream acquired K-C Aviation, Inc., previously a
provider of business aviation services and the largest
independent completion center for business aircraft in North
America. This acquisition increased Gulfstream’s capacity
to accelerate its completion deliveries and its ability to
provide aftermarket maintenance services, spare parts engine
overhaul and auxiliary power unit service and overhaul for both
Gulfstream and other business jets. As a result of the K-C
Aviation acquisition, Gulfstream now offers services for
Challenger, Hawker, Falcon and other aircraft types at their
Appleton, WI; Dallas, TX; and Westfield, MA locations. On
February 15, 2001, Gulfstream sold the engine overhaul
business obtained as part of this acquisition.



Information Systems and Technology

The Information Systems and Technology group provides defense
and commercial customers with infrastructure and systems
integration skills required to process, communicate and manage
information effectively. The group has market-leading positions
in the design, deployment and maintenance of wireline and
wireless voice and data networks; command, control and
communications systems; telecommunications system security;
encryption; fiber optics; intelligence systems; computing
hardware; and lifecycle management and support. The Information
Systems and Technology group is pursuing new opportunities in
networks and communication systems for defense customers, as
well as selected opportunities in the commercial market.
Information Systems and Technology includes 7 major businesses:
Advanced Technology Systems, Communication Systems, Computing
Devices Canada, Defense Systems, Electronic Systems, Information
Systems and Worldwide Telecommunication Systems. Net sales (in
millions) for this group were $2,388, $1,422 and $933, or 23%,
16% and 13% of the company’s consolidated net sales, for
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Combat Systems

Combat Systems is a leading supplier of land and amphibious
combat system development, production and support. Its product
line includes a full spectrum of armored vehicles, suspensions,
engines, transmissions, medium caliber guns, ammunition handling
systems, turrets and turret drive systems, reactive armor and
ordnance. On January 26, 2001, the company acquired Primex
Technologies, Inc., renamed General Dynamics Ordnance and
Tactical Systems. Ordnance and Tactical Systems will be included
in the company’s results of operations beginning
January 26, 2001. The acquisition of Ordnance and Tactical
Systems will strengthen the company’s market position in
large and medium caliber munitions, as well as provide entrance
into the high growth areas of missile and precision-guided
munitions through existing subcontract relationships. Combat
Systems includes the company’s Land Systems, Armament
Systems, and Ordnance and Tactical Systems (beginning in late
January 2001) subsidiaries.

Net sales for Combat Systems represent 12%, 14% and 17% of the
company’s consolidated net sales for 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Net sales (in millions) by major product are as
follows:

Land Systems designs and manufactures the M1 Series Abrams
Main Battle Tank for the U.S. Army and various foreign
governments. Land Systems also performs engineering and upgrade
work, and provides support for existing armored vehicles.
Production of the M1A2 was initiated in 1992 and the M1A2 SEP,
the latest version of the M1, in 1999. Land Systems is in its
last year of production on its 1996 multiyear contract with the
U.S. Army to upgrade 580 tanks from the M1 to the M1A2 and M1A2
SEP configurations. The company expects a decision in early 2001
with respect to a follow-on multiyear contract for approximately
$740 million to upgrade approximately 300 additional M1
Abrams tanks to the M1A2 SEP version.

Land Systems is also under contract for the development of
several other major armored vehicle systems and components,
including wheeled weapons stations, engines and turret drive
systems. The company is scheduled to complete its three-year
contract for the design, development and construction of three
Advanced Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAAV) prototypes in
September 2001. The Marine Corps plans to acquire more than
1,000 vehicles within the next 10 years. The production
program, including anticipated international sales, is valued at
more than $5 billion.

In November 2000, the U.S. Army awarded a six-year
requirements contract to GM GDLS Defense Group, a joint venture
between the company and General Motors Canada Ltd., to equip its
Brigrade Combat Teams with an eight-wheeled armored vehicle. The
award is currently under protest by a competitor; resolution is
expected by the end of March 2001. The total estimated
value of this contract is $4 billion for 2,131 vehicles.



Armament Systems designs, develops and produces advanced gun and
ammunition handling systems for applications on various land,
sea and air platforms. Armament Systems is also a leader in the
production of ammunition products. Armament Systems is the sole
producer of the Hydra 70 2.75” air-to-ground rocket, having
produced over 1 million to date.

Ordnance and Tactical Systems provides a variety of munitions,
propellants, satellite propulsion systems and electronics
products to the U.S. government and its allies, as well as
domestic and international industrial customers.

Other

The company’s Other businesses consist of:

Material Service

— engaged in the mining and
sale of aggregates (stone, sand and gravel) for use in the
construction of highways and other infrastructure projects, and
for commercial and residential building construction primarily
in northern and central Illinois as well as Indiana. This
business is cyclical and seasonal in nature.

Freeman Energy

— mines coal, producing
approximately 3-4 million tons in each of the last three
years. Freeman Energy owns or leases rights to over 600 million
tons of coal reserves in Illinois.

Patriots

— financing subsidiaries that lease
liquefied natural gas tankers to a nonaffiliated company.

Summary financial data (in millions) is as follows:

*

Management decided not to make additional
	investments in its undeveloped high sulfur coal reserves and
	revalued these coal reserves and related assets, resulting in a
	non-cash charge to earnings of approximately
	$61 million.

**

In connection with the acquisition of Gulfstream,
	the company merged its commercial pension plans. As a result of
	the merger of these plans, the company recognized previously
	deferred gains on its commercial pension plan, totaling
	$126  million.

***

Other identifiable assets consist primarily of
	leases receivable related to the Patriots’ operation.

Competition

U.S. Government Defense Contracts

Historically, competition for U.S. government defense contracts
was characterized by a number of major companies competing for a
variety of contracts. The U.S. government’s procurement
policy generally required competitive bids based on strict
specifications. In addition, the U.S. government often awarded
contracts to more than one company in order to ensure
competition on subsequent contracts.

During the last decade, because of reduced defense spending, the
defense industry consolidated through mergers and acquisitions
to maintain critical mass, resulting in fewer and larger
competitors. With fewer but more complex programs in
competition, companies frequently have formed strategic
alliances to pursue these programs. The Department of Defense
faces challenges as it must address industrial base issues while
assessing competing needs between and among the various branches
of the service. U.S. government defense contracts are also
subject to uncertain future funding levels, which can result in
the extension or termination of contracts. Finally, Congress
continues to be very influential in its role of determining
funding levels and priorities. As a result, the defense
procurement policy is evolving and will be affected by these
various and sometimes conflicting factors.



A discussion of competition on major defense platform programs
is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the
Results of Operations and Financial Condition on pages 17
through 29 of the 2000 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.

Business Aircraft

The business aircraft market generally is divided into four
segments of aircraft — light, medium, large and
ultra-long range — either designed or converted for
business use. The Gulfstream IV-SP competes in the large
cabin business aircraft market segment with the Dassault Falcon
900EX. The Gulfstream V and Gulfstream V-SP compete in
the ultra-long range business aircraft market segment against
the Bombardier Global Express. The company believes that it
competes favorably in its markets on the basis of the
performance characteristics of its aircraft, the quality and
timeliness of the service it provides, as well as its innovative
marketing techniques. In addition, the company was able to
certify the Gulfstream V significantly in advance of its
competition and obtain a substantial market lead. The company
believes that the introduction of the second generation of the
ultra-long range business jet, the Gulfstream V-SP, will enable
the company to maintain or increase its market lead in this
important market segment. Further, the company believes its
aircraft’s operating costs are comparable to or lower than
those of its competitors and that its products are competitively
priced.

Customers

In 2000, approximately 60% of the company’s net sales were
made to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or as
a subcontractor; approximately 36% of the company’s net
sales were made to domestic and international commercial
customers; and the remaining 4% to international
governments.

U.S. Government

The company’s defense businesses represent the majority of
its U.S. government sales. Net sales to the U.S. government
include Foreign Military Sales (FMS), which are sales to foreign
governments through the U.S. government, whereby the
company contracts with and receives payment from the
U.S. government and the U.S. government assumes the
risk of collection from the customer. U.S. government sales
were as follows (dollars in millions):

All U.S. government contracts related to the company’s
defense businesses are terminable at the convenience of the
U.S. government, as well as for default. Under contracts
terminable at the convenience of the U.S. government, a
contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable
costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or
earnings for the work done. Contracts which are terminated for
default generally provide that the U.S. government only
pays for the work it has accepted. The U.S. government may
require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of
reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.

Companies engaged in supplying goods and services to the
U.S. government are dependent on congressional
appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, and may be
affected by changes in U.S. government policies resulting
from various military and political developments. Long-term
government contracts and related orders are subject to
cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance
periods become unavailable. Congress usually appropriates funds
on a fiscal-year basis even though contract



performance may extend over many years. U.S. government defense
contracts typically involve long lead times for design and
development, and are subject to significant changes in contract
scheduling. Often the contracts call for successful design and
production of very complex and technologically advanced items.

Commercial

The majority of the company’s commercial sales are for
Gulfstream aircraft to national and multinational corporations.
The aircraft are operated by customers in a wide spectrum of
industries and customer groups including: pharmaceuticals,
consumer goods, high technology, energy, industrial
manufacturing, finance, insurance, real estate, mining,
transportation, communications, public utilities, the retail
trade and individuals.

Executive Jet International is an unaffiliated customer who
purchases aircraft from the company for use in its fractional
ownership program. Executive Jet then sells ownership interests
generally in one-eighth or one-quarter increments, for which the
customer receives 100 or 200 hours, respectively, of flying time
per year. Through year-end 2000, Gulfstream had contracted to
deliver to Executive Jet 76 aircraft plus options for an
additional 5 aircraft. As of December 31, 2000, 43 of these
aircraft remain in backlog. During 1998, a group of unaffiliated
Middle East investors signed a 12-aircraft contract with
Gulfstream to establish a fractional ownership program. Nine of
these aircraft remain in unfunded backlog at year end.

In 1998, Gulfstream announced an agreement with Gulfstream GATX
Leasing Company, LLC (a subsidiary of GATX Capital). Gulfstream
GATX Leasing Company purchases aircraft from the company and
then offers the aircraft for lease, generally under short-term
operating leases. Gulfstream has a 15% ownership interest in
Gulfstream GATX Leasing Company. Gulfstream also offers charter
and aircraft management services; training; and through its
subsidiary, Gulfstream Financial Services Corporation, aircraft
financing, which is provided through private label relationships
with other financing institutions.

International

Direct international sales, including both defense and
commercial, represent approximately five percent of the
company’s operations for the past three years. The company
expanded its geographic presence in late 1997 through the
acquisition of Computing Devices Canada Ltd. and Computing
Devices Company Limited in the United Kingdom. Direct foreign
sales, including international operations, were
$930 million, $966 million and $1,011 million in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and were primarily related to
the export of business aircraft. For the year ended
December 31, 2000, sales and operating earnings from
international operations were 2.5% and 1.5% of consolidated
sales and operating earnings, respectively. Identifiable assets
of operations domiciled outside the U.S. were 3.5%, 5.5% and
7.3% of total identifiable assets at December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively, and consisted primarily of goodwill
and intangible assets. For information regarding sales by
geographic region, see Note S to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 50 of the 2000 Annual Report, filed as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by
reference.

Supplies

Many items of equipment and components used in the production of
the company’s products are purchased from other
manufacturers. The company is dependent upon suppliers and
subcontractors for a large number of components and the ability
of its suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and
quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some cases the
company is dependent on one or a few sources, either because of
the specialized nature of a particular item or because of
domestic preference requirements pursuant to which it operates
on a given project.

All of the company’s operations are dependent upon adequate
supplies of certain raw materials, such as aluminum and steel,
and on adequate supplies of fuel. Fuel or raw material shortages
could also have an adverse effect on the company’s
suppliers, thus impairing their ability to honor their
contractual commitments to the company. The company has not
experienced serious shortages in any of the raw materials or
fuel supplies that are necessary for its production programs.



Research and Development

Research and development activities in the Marine Systems,
Information Systems and Technology, and Combat Systems groups
are conducted principally under U.S. government contracts. These
research efforts have been and continue to be concerned with
developing products for large systems development programs or
performing work under research and development technology
contracts. Each of the company’s defense businesses also
engages in independent research and development, of which a
significant portion is recovered through overhead charges to
U.S. government contracts. Company-sponsored research and
development began increasing in 1998 due primarily to the growth
in business through acquisitions in the Information Systems and
Technology group. This group conducts research and development
primarily under classified programs. Research and development
activities in the Aerospace group are primarily internally
funded product enhancement and product development programs for
Gulfstream aircraft.

Research and development expenditures (in millions) by type
follows:

Backlog

Summary backlog information (in millions) for each business
group follows. Prior year amounts for Aerospace have been
restated to include amounts for completions and aircraft
services backlog.

Defense Businesses

Total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of
work to be performed under firm contracts. Funded backlog for
government programs represents the portion of total backlog that
has been appropriated by Congress and funded by the procuring
agency. To the extent backlog has not been funded, there is no
assurance that congressional appropriations or agency allotments
will be forthcoming. For further discussion, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the Results of
Operations and Financial Condition on pages 17 through 29
of the 2000 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.

Aerospace

Funded aircraft backlog represents orders for which the company
has entered into a definitive purchase contract with no material
contingencies and has received a significant non-refundable
deposit from the customer. Unfunded aircraft backlog includes
options, which consist of agreements with two unaffiliated
customers who purchase aircraft for use in their respective
fractional ownership programs, an agreement with



Gulfstream GATX Leasing Company and agreements to provide future
aircraft maintenance and support services.

Regulatory Controls

Business Aircraft

In order for an aircraft model to be manufactured for sale, the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) must issue a Type
Certificate and a Production Certificate for the aircraft model
and, in order for an individual aircraft to be operated, an
Airworthiness Certificate. Type Certificates are issued by the
FAA when an aircraft model is determined to meet certain
performance, environmental, safety and other technical criteria.
The Production Certificate ensures that the aircraft is built to
specifications approved under the Type Certificate. An
Airworthiness Certificate is issued for a particular aircraft
when it is certified to have been built in accordance with
specifications approved under the Type Certificate for that
particular model aircraft. Gulfstream has never had a Type
Certificate or a Production Certificate suspended, nor had any
jet aircraft grounded as the result of regulatory action.

All of the company’s aircraft models comply with all
currently applicable federal laws and regulations pertaining to
aircraft noise and engine emissions. Due to their weight (under
75,000 pounds) all Gulfstream II, III, IV, and IV-SP
aircraft are currently exempt from the FAA Stage 3 (most
stringent) noise requirements. Notwithstanding federal
requirements, foreign and local jurisdictions and airport
authorities may establish more stringent restrictions pertaining
to aircraft noise. Such local and foreign regulations in several
locations currently restrict the operation of certain jet
aircraft, including the Gulfstream II, IIB, and III, and
certain of their competitors from landing or taking off during
late evening and early morning hours. Each of the
Gulfstream IV, IV-SP, and V aircraft produce noise levels
below the FAA’s Stage 3 and the International Civil
Aviation Organization’s most stringent noise ceilings.

Environmental Controls

The company’s operations are subject to and affected by a
variety of federal, state and local environmental protection
laws and regulations. Management of the company believes that
the company is in substantial compliance with all applicable
environmental laws and regulations.

The 1990 Clean Air Act Amendment (the Act), had a significant
impact on Freeman Energy. The Act requires, among other things,
a phased reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions by coal burning
facilities. All of the coal in Freeman Energy’s Illinois
basin mines has medium or high sulfur content. Freeman Energy
has a long-term contract customer with clean coal technologies
that allow for utilization of Freeman Energy’s coal under
the new regulations. Freeman Energy has targeted customers with
clean coal technology to mitigate the impact of regulations in
the near term. The long-term impact of the Act is not known.

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge
of materials into the environment and other factors affecting
the environment have had and will continue to have an impact on
the manufacturing operations of the company. Thus far,
compliance with the requirements has been accomplished without
material effect on the company’s capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position. While it is expected that this
will continue to be the case, the company cannot assess the
possible effect of compliance with future requirements.
Additional information relating to the impact of environmental
controls is included under the caption “Environmental”
in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page
42 of the 2000 Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.

Patents

Numerous patents and patent applications are owned by the
company and utilized in its defense business development
activities and manufacturing operations. In many cases, however,
the U.S. government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive,
royalty-free license, pursuant to which the government may use
or authorize others to use the inventions covered by the
patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the government may
consent



to the company’s use of inventions covered by patents owned
by other persons. Patents and licenses are important in the
operation of the company’s defense businesses, as one of
management’s key objectives is developing and providing its
customers with advanced technological solutions.

Employees

At December 31, 2000, the company had approximately 43,300
employees (excluding contract labor), of whom 34 percent
were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various
unions, the most significant of which are the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the Marine
Draftsmen’s Association, the Metal Trades Council of New
London, Connecticut and the United Auto Workers Union. Several
agreements are due to expire during 2001, the most significant
of which is the United Auto Workers, which includes
approximately 1,100 employees.

Executive Officers Of The Registrant

All executive officers of the company are elected annually. No
executive officer of the company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between the officer and any other
person. The name, age, offices and positions held for the last
five years of the company’s executive officers are as
follows:







Item 2.

Properties

Principal Business Groups.

A summary of floor space at
the main facilities of the Marine Systems, Aerospace,
Information Systems and Technology, and Combat Systems business
groups follows (square feet in millions):



In 1997, Bath Iron Works began a project to construct a fifteen
acre land level transfer facility and manufacturing support
center, and a 750-foot dry-dock in Bath, Maine to modernize its
facility. The company expects to complete the project in 2001
and anticipates investing approximately $240.



Other.

Freeman Energy operates two underground coal mines
and one surface coal mine in Illinois. Coal preparation
facilities and rail loading facilities are located at each mine
sufficient for its output. Material Service operates several
stone quarries, as well as sand and gravel pits and yards in the
Chicago, Illinois and Indiana areas for its aggregates business.

Real Estate Held for Development.

As part of the
divestiture of certain of the company’s businesses during
1992 to 1994, specific properties were retained by the company.
The company developed plans and marketing efforts, which are
intended to maximize the market value of these properties.
Beginning in 1997, several buildings and acres of land were
sold, the most significant of which was a 232-acre site in the
Kearny Mesa section of San Diego, California in 1998. The
remaining properties include approximately 2,200 acres in
Sycamore Canyon, San Diego, California and 280 acres in Rancho
Cucamonga, California. Most of this property is undeveloped. The
company owns approximately 20,000 square feet of building space
at Rancho Cucamonga and approximately 200,000 square feet of
building space at Sycamore Canyon.

General.

The company believes that its main facilities
are adequate for the present needs of the company and its
subsidiaries and, as supplemented by planned improvements and
construction, are expected to remain adequate for the
foreseeable future.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

The information under the captions “Litigation” and
“Environmental” in Note O and the information in
Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on
pages 41 through 43 of the 2000 Annual Report, included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the company’s
security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended
December 31, 2000.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Company’s Common
Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange.

On October 25, 1999, the company issued 15,424 shares of
common stock to James D. Caldwell in connection with the
company’s acquisition of Caldwell’s Diving Company,
Inc. and Cable Ventures Inc. (now known as it International
Telecom USA, Inc.). In connection with this share issuance, the
company claims exemption from registration under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
based on the fact that the transaction did not involve any
public offering of securities.

The high and low sales price of the company’s common stock
and the cash dividends declared with respect to the
company’s common stock for each quarterly period during the
two most recent fiscal years are included in Note T to the
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 50 of the
2000 Annual Report, included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, as
Exhibit 13, and are incorporated herein by reference.

There were 18,500 holders of record of the company’s common
stock at March 8, 2001.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The “Selected Financial Data” appearing on page 52 of
the 2000 Annual Report, included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, as
Exhibit 13, is incorporated herein by reference in response
to this item.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the
Results of Operations and Financial Condition” appearing on
pages 17 through 29 of the 2000 Annual Report, included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative
Information About Market Risk

The information appearing under the caption “Market
Risk” on page 29 of the 2000 Annual Report, included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000, as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Report of Independent Public
Accountants appearing on pages 30 through 51 of the 2000 Annual
Report, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000, as Exhibit 13, are
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of
the Registrant

The information required to be set forth herein, except for a
list of the executive officers that is provided in Part I of
this report, is included in the sections entitled
“Re-Election of the Board of Directors of the Company”
and “Other Information — Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the
company’s definitive Proxy Statement, which sections are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the section entitled “Executive Compensation” in the
company’s definitive Proxy Statement, which section is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the sections entitled “Security Ownership of
Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners” in the company’s definitive Proxy
Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

The information required to be set forth herein is included in
the section entitled “Transactions Involving Directors and
the Company” in the company’s definitive Proxy
Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  1.  Financial Statements

The Report of Independent Public Accountants and Consolidated
Financial Statements appearing in the 2000 Annual Report on the
pages listed in the following index are included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2000, as Exhibit 13, and are incorporated herein by
reference.

2.  Financial Statement Schedules

No schedules are submitted because they are either not
applicable or not required, or because the required information
is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the
Notes thereto.

3.  Exhibits — See Index
on pages 21 and 22 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

None.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

By:

/s/ JOHN W. SCHWARTZ

John W. Schwartz

Vice President and Controller

March 29, 2001

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, this report has been signed below on
March 29, 2001, by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including a majority
of the directors.

*

By David A. Savner pursuant to Power of Attorney executed by the
	directors listed above, which Power of Attorney has been filed
	with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

/s/ DAVID A. SAVNER

______________________________________________________

David A. Savner

Secretary



INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibits listed below, which have been filed with the Commission
pursuant to Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and which were
filed as noted below, are hereby incorporated by reference and
made a part of this report with the same effect as if filed
herewith.



*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or
	arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of
	Form 10-K.



NOTES TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

(10)

Filed as an exhibit to the company’s quarterly report on
	Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 1,
	2000, and filed with the Commission November 13, 2000.

(11)

Filed as an exhibit to the company’s annual report on
	Form 10-K/ A for the year ending December 31, 1998,
	and filed with the Commission June 30, 1999.

(12)

Filed as an exhibit to the company’s annual report on
	Form 10-K/ A for the year ending December 31, 1999,
	and filed with the Commission June 28, 2000.

23