ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

In this report, the terms "The Coca-Cola Company," "Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean The Coca-Cola Company and all entities included in our consolidated financial statements.

General

The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. We own or license and market more than 500 nonalcoholic beverage brands, primarily sparkling beverages but also a variety of still beverages such as waters, enhanced waters, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and energy and sports drinks. We own and market four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling beverage brands: Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite. Finished beverage products bearing our trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886, are now sold in more than 200 countries.

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers throughout the world through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations as well as independent bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers — the world's largest beverage distribution system. Of the approximately 57 billion beverage servings of all types consumed worldwide every day, beverages bearing trademarks owned by or licensed to us account for more than 1.8 billion servings.

We believe that our success depends on our ability to connect with consumers by providing them with a wide variety of options to meet their desires, needs and lifestyle choices. Our success further depends on the ability of our people to execute effectively, every day.

Our goal is to use our Company's assets — our brands, financial strength, unrivaled distribution system, global reach, and the talent and strong commitment of our management and associates — to become more competitive and to accelerate growth in a manner that creates value for our shareowners.

We were incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of Delaware and succeeded to the business of a Georgia corporation with the same name that had been organized in 1892.










Acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.'s Former North America Business and Related Transactions

In contemplation of the closing of our acquisition of CCE's former North America business, we reached an agreement with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. ("DPS") to distribute certain DPS brands in territories where DPS brands had been distributed by CCE prior to the CCE transaction. Under the terms of our agreement with DPS, concurrently with the closing of the CCE transaction, we entered into license agreements with DPS to distribute Dr Pepper trademark brands in the United States, Canada Dry in the Northeastern United States, and Canada Dry and C' Plus in Canada, and we made a net one-time cash payment of $715 million to DPS. Under the license agreements, the Company agreed to meet certain performance obligations to distribute DPS products in retail and foodservice accounts and vending machines. The license agreements have initial terms of 20 years, with automatic 20-year renewal periods unless otherwise terminated under the terms of the agreements. The license agreements replaced agreements between DPS and CCE existing immediately prior to the completion of the CCE transaction. In addition, we entered into an agreement with DPS to include Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper in our Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispensers in certain outlets throughout the United States. The Coca-Cola Freestyle agreement has a term of 20 years.

On October 2, 2010, we sold all of our ownership interests in Coca-Cola Drikker AS (the "Norwegian bottling operation") and Coca-Cola Drycker Sverige AB (the "Swedish bottling operation") to New CCE for $0.9 billion in cash. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of CCE's former North America business, we granted to New CCE the right to negotiate the acquisition of our majority interest in our German bottler at any time from 18 to 39 months after February 25, 2010, at the then current fair value and subject to terms and conditions as mutually agreed.

Operating Segments

The Company's operating structure is the basis for our internal financial reporting. As ofDecember 31, 2012, our operating structure included the following operating segments, the first six of which are sometimes referred to as "operating groups" or "groups":

•Eurasia and Africa

•Europe

•Latin America

•North America

•Pacific

•Bottling Investments

•Corporate

Our North America operating segment includes CCE's former North America business we acquired on October 2, 2010. Effective January 1, 2013, we transferred our India and Southwest Asia business unit from the Eurasia and Africa operating segment to the Pacific operating segment.

Except to the extent that differences among operating segments are material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole, the description of our business in this report is presented on a consolidated basis.

For financial information about our operating segments and geographic areas, refer toNote 19of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report, incorporated herein by reference. For certain risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" below.










Products and Brands

As used in this report:

•"concentrates" means flavoring ingredients and, depending on the product, sweeteners used to prepare syrups or finished beverages, and includes powders for purified water products such as Dasani;

•"syrups" means beverage ingredients produced by combining concentrates and, depending on the product, sweeteners and added water;

•"fountain syrups" means syrups that are sold to fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores, which use dispensing equipment to mix the syrups with sparkling or still water at the time of purchase to produce finished beverages that are served in cups or glasses for immediate consumption;

•"sparkling beverages" means nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages with carbonation, including carbonated energy drinks and carbonated waters and flavored waters;

•"still beverages" means nonalcoholic beverages without carbonation, including noncarbonated waters, flavored waters and enhanced waters, noncarbonated energy drinks, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and sports drinks;

•"Company Trademark Beverages" means beverages bearing our trademarks and certain other beverage products bearing trademarks licensed to us by third parties for which we provide marketing support and from the sale of which we derive economic benefit; and

•"Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages" or "Trademark Coca-Cola" means beverages bearing the trademark Coca-Cola or any trademark that includes Coca-Cola or Coke (that is, Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Zero and all their variations and line extensions, including Coca-Cola Light, caffeine free Diet Coke, Cherry Coke, etc.). Likewise, when we use the capitalized word "Trademark" together with the name of one of our other beverage products (such as "Trademark Fanta," "Trademark Sprite" or "Trademark Simply"), we mean beverages bearing the indicated trademark (that is, Fanta, Sprite or Simply, respectively) and all its variations and line extensions (such that "Trademark Fanta" includes Fanta Orange, Fanta Zero Orange, Fanta Apple, etc.; "Trademark Sprite" includes Sprite, Diet Sprite, Sprite Zero, Sprite Light, etc.; and "Trademark Simply" includes Simply Orange, Simply Apple, Simply Grapefruit, etc.).

Our Company markets, manufactures and sells:

•beverage concentrates, sometimes referred to as "beverage bases," and syrups, including fountain syrups (we refer to this part of our business as our "concentrate business" or "concentrate operations"); and

•finished sparkling and still beverages (we refer to this part of our business as our "finished product business" or "finished product operations").

Generally, finished product operations generate higher net operating revenues but lower gross profit margins than concentrate operations.

In our concentrate operations, we typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations (to which we typically refer as our "bottlers" or our "bottling partners"). Our bottling partners either combine the concentrates with sweeteners (depending on the product), still water and/or sparkling water, or combine the syrups with sparkling water to produce finished beverages. The finished beverages are packaged in authorized containers bearing our trademarks or trademarks licensed to us — such as cans and refillable and nonrefillable glass and plastic bottles — and are then sold to retailers directly or, in some cases, through wholesalers or other bottlers. Outside the United States, we also sell concentrates for fountain beverages to our bottling partners who are typically authorized to manufacture fountain syrups, which they sell to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to fountain wholesalers who in turn sell and distribute the fountain syrups to fountain retailers.

Our finished product operations consist primarily of the production, sales and distribution operations managed by CCR and our Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations. CCR is included in our North America operating segment, and our Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations are included in our Bottling Investments operating segment. Our finished product operations generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners










who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers. In the United States, we authorize wholesalers to resell our fountain syrups through nonexclusive appointments that neither restrict us in setting the prices at which we sell fountain syrups to the wholesalers nor restrict the territories in which the wholesalers may resell in the United States.

For information about net operating revenues and unit case volume related to our concentrate operations and finished product operations, respectively, refer to the heading "Our Business — General" in Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Most of our branded beverage products, particularly outside of North America, are manufactured, sold and distributed by independent bottling partners. However, from time to time we acquire or take control of bottling or canning operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. Owning such a controlling interest enables us to compensate for limited local resources; help focus the bottler's sales and marketing programs; assist in the development of the bottler's business and information systems; and establish an appropriate capital structure for the bottler. The Company-owned or -controlled bottling operations, other than those managed by CCR, are included in our Bottling Investments group.

In line with our long-term bottling strategy, we may periodically consider options for reducing our ownership interest in a Bottling Investments group bottler. One such option is to combine our bottling interests with the bottling interests of others to form strategic business alliances. Another option is to sell our interest in a bottling operation to one of our other bottling partners in which we have an equity method investment. In both of these situations, our Company continues to participate in the bottler's results of operations through our share of the strategic business alliance's or equity method investee's earnings or losses.

The following are our most significant brands:

Coca-ColaFantaDasaniMinute Maid PulpyDiet Coke/Coca-Cola LightMinute MaidGlacéau VitaminwaterDel Valle3Coca-Cola ZeroPoweradeGeorgia1Ayataka4SpriteAquariusSimply2I Lohas5

1Georgia is primarily a coffee brand sold mainly in Japan.

2Simply is a juice and juice drink brand sold in North America.

3The Company manufactures, markets and sells juices and juice drinks under the Del Valle trademark through joint ventures with our bottling partners in Mexico and Brazil.

4Ayataka is a green tea brand sold in Japan.

5I Lohas is a water brand sold in Japan.

In addition, pursuant to master distribution and coordination agreements with Monster Beverage Corporation (“Monster”), we distribute certain Monster brands, primarily Monster Energy beverages, in designated territories in the United States and Canada, and certain of our bottlers distribute such Monster brands in designated U.S. and international territories. Pursuant to license agreements with DPS, we distribute certain DPS brands in designated territories in the United States and Canada. Prior to and during 2012, we also distributed Nestea products in the United States under a sublicense from a subsidiary of Nestlé S.A. ("Nestlé"), and in various other markets worldwide through Beverage Partners Worldwide ("BPW"), the Company's joint venture with Nestlé. The Nestea trademark is owned by Société des Produits Nestlé S.A. The Company and Nestlé terminated the sublicense agreement for Nestea in the United States and phased out the BPW joint venture in all territories other than markets in Europe, Canada, Australia, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan by the end of 2012.

In 2012, the Company invested in the beverage business of Aujan Industries Company J.S.C. ("Aujan"), one of the largest independent beverage companies in the Middle East. As a result of this transaction, the Company acquired 50 percent of the Aujan entity that holds the rights to Aujan-owned brands, including Rani, a juice brand, and Barbican, a flavored malt beverage brand, in certain territories.

Consumer demand determines the optimal menu of Company product offerings. Consumer demand can vary from one locale to another and can change over time within a single locale. Employing our business strategy, and with special focus on core brands, our Company seeks to build its existing brands and, at the same time, to broaden its historical family of brands, products and services in order to create and satisfy consumer demand locale by locale.

During 2012, our Company introduced a variety of new brands, brand extensions and new beverage products. The Company launched Fuze Tea, a new international tea brand, in 24 countries. In the Latin America group, leveraging our existing portfolio, we launched Andina Del Valle Sabores Caseros, a juice nectar targeted to capture the homemade juice category, in Chile and










two extension flavors of Del Valle juice (Del Valle Maracuyá & Nada and Del Valle Limón & Nada) in Brazil. The introduction of the new Fuze Tea brand in the Latin America group was successful, and we captured consumer brand preference in key countries such as Chile, Mexico, Costa Rica, Colombia, Ecuador and El Salvador. In addition, we launched Glacéau Vitaminwater in Chile and Colombia, and launched Blak Coffee in Costa Rica and Colombia. In the Pacific group, we launched Fuze Tea, a fruit-flavored black tea beverage, in Korea and Mongolia. In China, we introduced a new 300 mL PET pack for Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite sparkling beverages, and Guo Qing Xin, a fruit-flavored beverage, under the Minute Maid brand. In Japan, we introduced Mate Cha, a mate tea inspired by the traditional South American tea drink. In the Europe group, we were very active on product launches containing stevia, a non-nutritive sweetener. Numerous tea formulations under the Nestea brand were rolled out across the European continent, while in France and Switzerland a new Sprite containing 30 percent less sugar was made possible through the use of stevia.

In furtherance of our commitments to sustainability and innovation, our PlantBottle™ packaging technology, which is PET plastic that contains up to 30 percent renewable material from plants, is becoming more widely used around the world. By the end of 2012, we had distributed nearly 13 billion PlantBottle packages in 24 countries. Also, in 2012, we continued expansion of Coca-Cola Freestyle, our revolutionary fountain dispenser that offers over 100 drink choices at the touch of a button, to thousands of outlets across the United States and internationally.

Distribution System and Bottler's Agreements

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers in more than 200 countries through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations as well as independent bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers — the world's largest beverage distribution system. Consumers enjoy finished beverage products bearing our trademarks at a rate of more than 1.8 billion servings each day. We continue to expand our marketing presence and increase our unit case volume in developed, developing and emerging markets. Our strong and stable system helps us to capture growth by manufacturing, distributing and marketing existing, enhanced and new innovative products to our consumers throughout the world.

The Coca-Cola system sold approximately 27.7 billion, 26.7 billion and 25.5 billion unit cases of our products in2012,2011and2010, respectively. The number of unit cases sold in 2012 does not include BPW unit case volume for those countries in which BPW was phased out in 2012, nor does it include unit case volume of products distributed in the United States under a sublicense from a subsidiary of Nestlé which terminated at the end of 2012. Sparkling beverages represented approximately 75 percent, 75 percent and 76 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for2012,2011and2010, respectively. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for approximately 48 percent, 49 percent and 50 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for2012,2011and2010, respectively.

In2012, unit case volume in the United States ("U.S. unit case volume") represented approximately 19 percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume. Of the U.S. unit case volume for2012, approximately 70 percent was attributable to sparkling beverages and approximately 30 percent to still beverages. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for approximately 48 percent of U.S. unit case volume for2012.










Unit case volume outside the United States represented approximately 81 percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume for2012. The countries outside the United States in which our unit case volumes were the largest in2012were Mexico, China, Brazil and Japan, which together accounted for approximately 31 percent of our worldwide unit case volume. Of the non-U.S. unit case volume for2012, approximately 76 percent was attributable to sparkling beverages and approximately 24 percent to still beverages. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for approximately 48 percent of non-U.S. unit case volume for2012.

Being a bottler does not create a legal partnership or joint venture between us and our bottlers. Our bottlers are independent contractors and are not our agents.

While, as described below, under most of our Bottler's Agreements we generally have complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of the concentrates and syrups we sell to our bottlers, as a practical matter, our Company's ability to exercise its contractual flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of its syrups, concentrates and finished beverages is subject, both outside and within the United States, to competitive market conditions.

Bottler's Agreements Outside the United States

The Bottler's Agreements between us and our authorized bottlers outside the United States generally are of stated duration, subject in some cases to possible extensions or renewals of the term of the contract. Generally, these contracts are subject to termination by the Company following the occurrence of certain designated events. These events include defined events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

In certain parts of the world outside the United States, we have not granted comprehensive beverage production rights to the bottlers. In such instances, we or our authorized suppliers sell Company Trademark Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution throughout the designated territory, often on a nonexclusive basis. Most of the Bottler's Agreements in force between us and bottlers outside the United States authorize the bottlers to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups, usually on a nonexclusive basis.

Our Company generally has complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of the concentrates and syrups we sell to bottlers outside the United States. In some instances, however, we have agreed or may in the future agree with a bottler with respect to concentrate pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods. In some markets, in an effort to allow our Company and our bottling partners to grow together through shared value, aligned incentives and the flexibility necessary to meet consumers' always changing needs and tastes, we worked with our bottling partners to develop and implement an incidence-based pricing model for sparkling and still beverages. Under this model, the concentrate price we charge is impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, bottler pricing, the channels in which the finished products are sold and package mix. Outside the United States, in most cases, we have no obligation to provide marketing support to the bottlers. Nevertheless, we may, at our discretion, contribute toward bottler expenditures for advertising and marketing. We may also elect to undertake independent or cooperative advertising and marketing activities.










Bottler's Agreements Within the United States

During the year endedDecember 31, 2012, CCR, our bottling and customer service organization for North America, manufactured, sold and distributed approximately 88 percent of our unit case volume in the United States. The discussion below regarding the terms of Bottler's Agreements and other contracts relates to Bottler's Agreements and contracts for territories in the United States that are not covered by CCR.

In the United States, with certain very limited exceptions, the Bottler's Agreements for Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored beverages have no stated expiration date. Our standard contracts for other sparkling beverage flavors and for still beverages are of stated duration, subject to bottler renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements in the United States are subject to termination by the Company for nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default that may vary from contract to contract.

Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements, bottlers in the United States are authorized to manufacture and distribute Company Trademark Beverages in bottles and cans. However, these bottlers generally are not authorized to manufacture fountain syrups. Rather, in the United States, our Company manufactures and sells fountain syrups to authorized fountain wholesalers (including certain authorized bottlers) and some fountain retailers. These wholesalers in turn sell the syrups or deliver them on our behalf to restaurants and other retailers.

Certain of the Bottler's Agreements for cola-flavored sparkling beverages in effect in the United States give us complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of concentrates and syrups for Company Trademark Beverages. In some instances, we have agreed or may in the future agree with a bottler with respect to concentrate pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods. Certain Bottler's Agreements, entered into prior to 1987, provide for concentrates or syrups for certain Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored Company Trademark Beverages to be priced pursuant to a stated formula. Bottlers that accounted for approximately 5.6 percent of total unit case volume in the United States in2012have contracts for certain Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored Company Trademark Beverages with pricing formulas that generally provide for a baseline price. This baseline price may be adjusted periodically by the Company, up to a maximum indexed ceiling price, and is adjusted quarterly based upon changes in certain sugar or sweetener prices, as applicable. Bottlers that accounted for approximately 0.3 percent of total unit case volume in the United States in2012operate under our oldest form of contract, which provides for a fixed price for Coca-Cola syrup used in bottles and cans. This price is subject to quarterly adjustments to reflect changes in the quoted price of sugar.

We have standard contracts with bottlers in the United States for the sale of concentrates and syrups for non-cola-flavored sparkling beverages and certain still beverages in bottles and cans, and, in certain cases, for the sale of finished still beverages in bottles and cans. All of these standard contracts give the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale.

In an effort to allow our Company and our bottling partners to grow together through shared value, aligned incentives and the flexibility necessary to meet consumers' always changing needs and tastes, we worked with bottling partners that produce and distribute most of our non-CCR unit case volume in the United States to develop and implement an incidence-based pricing model, primarily for sparkling beverages. Under this model, the concentrate price we charge is impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, bottler pricing, the channels in which the finished products are sold and package mix. We expect to use an incidence-based pricing model in 2013 with bottlers that produce and distribute most of our non-CCR unit case volume in the United States.

Under most of our Bottler's Agreements and other standard beverage contracts with bottlers in the United States, our Company has no obligation to participate with bottlers in expenditures for advertising and marketing. Nevertheless, at our discretion, we may contribute toward such expenditures and undertake independent or cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements entered into prior to 1987 impose certain marketing obligations on us with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.










Promotions and Marketing Programs

In addition to conducting our own independent advertising and marketing activities, we may provide promotional and marketing services or funds to our bottlers. In most cases, we do this on a discretionary basis under the terms of commitment letters or agreements, even though we are not obligated to do so under the terms of the bottling or distribution agreements between our Company and the bottlers. Also, on a discretionary basis in most cases, our Company may develop and introduce new products, packages and equipment to assist the bottlers. Likewise, in many instances, we provide promotional and marketing services and/or funds and/or dispensing equipment and repair services to fountain and bottle/can retailers, typically pursuant to marketing agreements. The aggregate amount of funds provided by our Company to bottlers, resellers or other customers of our Company's products, principally for participation in promotional and marketing programs, was $6.1 billion in2012.

Significant Equity Method Investments

We make equity investments in selected bottling operations with the intention of maximizing the strength and efficiency of the Coca-Cola system's production, distribution and marketing capabilities around the world. These investments are intended to result in increases in unit case volume, net revenues and profits at the bottler level, which in turn generate increased concentrate sales for our Company's concentrate and syrup business. When this occurs, both we and our bottling partners benefit from long-term growth in volume, improved cash flows and increased shareowner value. In cases where our investments in bottlers represent noncontrolling interests, our intention is to provide expertise and resources to strengthen those businesses. When our equity investment provides us with the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee bottler's operating and financial policies, we account for the investment under the equity method, and we sometimes refer to such a bottler as an "equity method investee bottler" or "equity method investee."

Our significant equity method investee bottlers include the following:

•Coca-ColaHellenic Bottling Company S.A. ("Coca-Cola Hellenic")

•Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Coca-Cola FEMSA")

•Coca-Cola Amatil Limited ("Coca-Cola Amatil")

Our ownership interest in Coca-Cola Hellenic was 23 percent as ofDecember 31, 2012. Coca-Cola Hellenic has bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Montenegro, Nigeria, Northern Ireland, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine. Coca-Cola Hellenic estimates that the area in these 28 countries which it serves through its bottling and distribution rights has a combined population of 581 million people. In2012, 47 percent of the unit case volume of Coca-Cola Hellenic consisted of Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages; 50 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages; and 3 percent of its unit case volume consisted of beverage products of Coca-Cola Hellenic or other companies.

Our ownership interest in Coca-Cola FEMSA was 29 percent as ofDecember 31, 2012. Coca-Cola FEMSA is a Mexican holding company with bottling subsidiaries in a substantial part of central Mexico, including Mexico City and the southeast and northeast parts of Mexico; greater São Paulo, Campinas, Santos, the state of Matto Grosso do Sul, part of the state of Minas Gerais and part of the state of Goias in Brazil; central Guatemala; most of Colombia; all of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela; and greater Buenos Aires, Argentina. Coca-Cola FEMSA estimates that the territories in which it markets beverage products contain 55 percent of the population of Mexico, 22 percent of the population of Brazil, 99 percent of the population of Colombia, 35 percent of the population of Guatemala, 100 percent of the populations of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela, and 32 percent of the population of Argentina. In2012, 60 percent of the unit case volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA consisted of Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and 40 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages.

Our ownership interest in Coca-Cola Amatil was 29 percent as ofDecember 31, 2012. Coca-Cola Amatil has bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. Coca-Cola Amatil estimates that the territories in which it markets beverage products contain 100 percent of the populations of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua New Guinea, and 98 percent of the population of Indonesia. In2012, 44 percent of the unit case volume of Coca-Cola Amatil consisted of Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages; 42 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages; and 14 percent of its unit case volume consisted of beverage products of Coca-Cola Amatil or other companies.










Seasonality

Sales of our nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions.

Competition

Our Company competes in the nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry. The nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry is highly competitive, consisting of numerous companies. These include companies that, like our Company, compete in multiple geographic areas, as well as businesses that are primarily regional or local in operation. Competitive products include numerous nonalcoholic sparkling beverages; various water products, including packaged, flavored and enhanced waters; juices and nectars; fruit drinks and dilutables (including syrups and powdered drinks); coffees and teas; energy and sports and other performance-enhancing drinks; dairy-based drinks; functional beverages; and various other nonalcoholic beverages. These competitive beverages are sold to consumers in both ready-to-drink and other than ready-to-drink form. In many of the countries in which we do business, including the United States, PepsiCo, Inc. is one of our primary competitors. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, DPS, Groupe Danone, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., and Unilever. In certain markets, our competition includes beer companies. We also compete against numerous regional and local companies and, in some markets, against retailers that have developed their own store or private label beverage brands.

Competitive factors impacting our business include, but are not limited to, pricing, advertising, sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production techniques, the introduction of new packaging, new vending and dispensing equipment, and brand and trademark development and protection.

Our competitive strengths include leading brands with high levels of consumer acceptance; a worldwide network of bottlers and distributors of Company products; sophisticated marketing capabilities; and a talented group of dedicated associates. Our competitive challenges include strong competition in all geographic regions and, in many countries, a concentrated retail sector with powerful buyers able to freely choose among Company products, products of competitive beverage suppliers and individual retailers' own store or private label beverage brands.

Raw Materials

Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products. While historically we have not experienced significant water supply difficulties, water is a limited natural resource in many parts of the world, and our Company recognizes water availability, quality and sustainability, for both our operations and also the communities where we operate, as one of the key challenges facing our business.

In addition to water, the principal raw materials used in our business are nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, the principal nutritive sweetener is high fructose corn syrup ("HFCS"), a form of sugar, which is available from numerous domestic sources and is historically subject to fluctuations in its market price. The principal nutritive sweetener used by our business outside the United States is sucrose, another form of sugar, which is also available from numerous sources and is historically subject to fluctuations in its market price. Our Company generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, we purchase HFCS to meet our and our bottlers' requirements with the assistance of Coca-Cola Bottlers' Sales & Services Company LLC ("CCBSS"). CCBSS is a limited liability company that is owned by authorized Coca-Cola bottlers doing business in the United States. Among other things, CCBSS provides procurement services to our Company for the purchase of various goods and services in the United States, including HFCS.

The principal non-nutritive sweeteners we use in our business are aspartame, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, cyclamate and sucralose. Generally, these raw materials are readily available from numerous sources. However, our Company purchases aspartame, an important non-nutritive sweetener that is used alone or in combination with other important non-nutritive sweeteners such as saccharin or acesulfame potassium in our low-calorie sparkling beverage products, primarily from The NutraSweet Company and Ajinomoto Co., Inc., which we consider to be our primary sources for the supply of this product. We currently purchase acesulfame potassium from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, which we consider to be our primary source for the supply of this product, and from one additional supplier. Our Company generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for non-nutritive sweeteners.

Our Company sells a number of products sweetened with sucralose, a non-nutritive sweetener. We work closely with Tate & Lyle PLC, our primary sucralose supplier, to maintain continuity of supply, and we do not anticipate difficulties in obtaining our requirements. We also sell beverage products sweetened with a non-nutritive sweetener derived from the stevia plant. We do not anticipate difficulties sourcing stevia-based ingredients.










With regard to juice and juice drink products, juice and juice concentrate from various fruits, particularly orange juice and orange juice concentrate, are our principal raw materials. The citrus industry is subject to the variability of weather conditions. In particular, freezing weather or hurricanes in central Florida may result in shortages and higher prices for orange juice and orange juice concentrate throughout the industry. We source our orange juice and orange juice concentrate primarily from Florida and the Southern Hemisphere (particularly Brazil). Therefore, we typically have an adequate supply of orange juice and orange juice concentrate that meets our Company's standards.

Our Company-owned or consolidated bottling and canning operations and our finished product business also purchase various other raw materials including, but not limited to, PET resin, preforms and bottles; glass and aluminum bottles; aluminum and steel cans; plastic closures; aseptic fiber packaging; labels; cartons; cases; post-mix packaging; and carbon dioxide. We generally purchase these raw materials from multiple suppliers and historically have not experienced material shortages.

Patents, Copyrights, Trade Secrets and Trademarks

Our Company owns numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets, as well as substantial know-how and technology, which we collectively refer to in this report as "technology." This technology generally relates to our Company's products and the processes for their production; the packages used for our products; the design and operation of various processes and equipment used in our business; and certain quality assurance software. Some of the technology is licensed to suppliers and other parties. Our sparkling beverage and other beverage formulae are among the important trade secrets of our Company.

We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Pursuant to our Bottler's Agreements, we authorize our bottlers to use applicable Company trademarks in connection with their manufacture, sale and distribution of Company products. In addition, we grant licenses to third parties from time to time to use certain of our trademarks in conjunction with certain merchandise and food products.

Governmental Regulation

Our Company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions.

In the United States, the safety, production, transportation, distribution, advertising, labeling and sale of many of our Company's products and their ingredients are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act; state consumer protection laws; competition laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements.

A California law known as Proposition 65 requires that a warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance that, in the view of the state, causes cancer or birth defects. The state maintains lists of these substances and periodically adds other substances to these lists. Proposition 65 exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in California because it does not provide for any generally applicable quantitative threshold below which the presence of a listed substance is exempt from the warning requirement. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. However, Proposition 65 does not require a warning if the manufacturer of a product can demonstrate that the use of that product exposes consumers to a daily quantity of a listed substance that is:

•belowa "safe harbor" threshold that may be established;

•naturallyoccurring;

•theresultof necessary cooking; or

•subjectto another applicable exemption.

One or more substances that are currently on the Proposition 65 lists, or that may be added in the future, can be detected in Company products at low levels that are safe. With respect to substances that have not yet been listed under Proposition 65, the Company takes the position that listing is not scientifically justified. With respect to substances that are already listed, the Company takes the position that the presence of each such substance in Company products is subject to an applicable exemption from the warning requirement. The State of California or other parties, however, may take a contrary position.










Bottlers of our beverage products presently offer and use nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and various other markets around the world. Some of these bottlers also offer and use refillable containers, which are also recyclable. Legal requirements apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of certain nonrefillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other types of statutes and regulations relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotaxes and/or product stewardship also apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas. We anticipate that additional, similar legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

All of our Company's facilities and other operations in the United States and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect on our Company's capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012and2011, our Company had approximately150,900and 146,200 employees, respectively, of which approximately 4,400 and 4,700, respectively, were employed by consolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs"). The increase in the total number of employees in2012was primarily due to the acquisition of bottling operations in Vietnam, Cambodia, Guatemala and the United States. As ofDecember 31, 2012and2011, our Company had approximately68,300and 67,400 employees, respectively, located in the United States, of which approximately 500 and 600, respectively, were employed by consolidated VIEs.

Our Company, through its divisions and subsidiaries, is a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. As ofDecember 31, 2012, approximately17,900employees in North America were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements typically have terms ofthreetofiveyears. We currently expect that we will be able to renegotiate such agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire.

The Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally satisfactory.

Securities Exchange Act Reports

The Company maintains a website at the following address: www.coca-colacompany.com. The information on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K.

We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



