ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

In this report, the terms "The Coca-Cola Company," "Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean The Coca-Cola Company and all entities included in our consolidated financial statements.

General

The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company. We own or license and market more than 500 nonalcoholic beverage brands, primarily sparkling beverages but also a variety of still beverages such as waters, enhanced waters, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and energy and sports drinks. We own and market four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling beverage brands: Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite. Finished beverage products bearing our trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886, are now sold in more than 200 countries.

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers throughout the world through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations as well as independent bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers — the world's largest beverage distribution system. Beverages bearing trademarks owned by or licensed to us account for 1.9 billion of the approximately 57 billion beverage servings of all types consumed worldwide every day.

We believe our success depends on our ability to connect with consumers by providing them with a wide variety of options to meet their desires, needs and lifestyles. Our success further depends on the ability of our people to execute effectively, every day.

Our goal is to use our Company's assets — our brands, financial strength, unrivaled distribution system, global reach, and the talent and strong commitment of our management and associates — to become more competitive and to accelerate growth in a manner that creates value for our shareowners.

We were incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of Delaware and succeeded to the business of a Georgia corporation with the same name that had been organized in 1892.










Acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.'s Former North America Business and Related Transactions

In contemplation of the closing of our acquisition of CCE's former North America business, we reached an agreement with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. ("DPSG") to distribute certain DPSG brands in territories where DPSG brands had been distributed by CCE prior to the CCE transaction. Under the terms of our agreement with DPSG, concurrently with the closing of the CCE transaction, we entered into license agreements with DPSG to distribute Dr Pepper trademark brands in the United States, Canada Dry in the Northeastern United States, and Canada Dry and C' Plus in Canada, and we made a net one-time cash payment of $715 million to DPSG. Under the license agreements, the Company agreed to meet certain performance obligations to distribute DPSG products in retail and foodservice accounts and vending machines. The license agreements have initial terms of 20 years, with automatic 20-year renewal periods unless otherwise terminated under the terms of the agreements. The license agreements replaced agreements between DPSG and CCE existing immediately prior to the completion of the CCE transaction. In addition, we entered into an agreement with DPSG to include Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper in our Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispensers in certain outlets throughout the United States. The Coca-Cola Freestyle agreement has a term of 20 years.

On October 2, 2010, we sold all of our ownership interests in Coca-Cola Drikker AS (the "Norwegian bottling operation") and Coca-Cola Drycker Sverige AB (the "Swedish bottling operation") to New CCE for $0.9 billion in cash.

Operating Segments

The Company's operating structure is the basis for our internal financial reporting. As ofDecember 31, 2013, our operating structure included the following operating segments, the first six of which are sometimes referred to as "operating groups" or "groups":

•Eurasia and Africa

•Europe

•Latin America

•North America

•Pacific

•Bottling Investments

•Corporate

Our operating structure as of December 31, 2013, reflected changes we made, effective January 1, 2013, when we transferred our India and South West Asia business unit from the Eurasia and Africa operating segment to the Pacific operating segment.  We revised previously reported operating segment information to conform to our operating structure in effect as of December 31, 2013.  Effective January 1, 2014, we changed the name of the Pacific operating segment to Asia Pacific.

Except to the extent that differences among operating segments are material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole, the description of our business in this report is presented on a consolidated basis.

For financial information about our operating segments and geographic areas, refer toNote 19of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report, incorporated herein by reference. For certain risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" below.










Products and Brands

As used in this report:

•"concentrates" means flavoring ingredients and, depending on the product, sweeteners used to prepare syrups or finished beverages, and includes powders for purified water products such as Dasani;

•"syrups" means beverage ingredients produced by combining concentrates and, depending on the product, sweeteners and added water;

•"fountain syrups" means syrups that are sold to fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores, which use dispensing equipment to mix the syrups with sparkling or still water at the time of purchase to produce finished beverages that are served in cups or glasses for immediate consumption;

•"sparkling beverages" means nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages with carbonation, including carbonated energy drinks and carbonated waters and flavored waters;

•"still beverages" means nonalcoholic beverages without carbonation, including noncarbonated waters, flavored waters and enhanced waters, noncarbonated energy drinks, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and sports drinks;

•"Company Trademark Beverages" means beverages bearing our trademarks and certain other beverage products bearing trademarks licensed to us by third parties for which we provide marketing support and from the sale of which we derive economic benefit; and

•"Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages" or "Trademark Coca-Cola" means beverages bearing the trademark Coca-Cola or any trademark that includes Coca-Cola or Coke (that is, Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Zero and all their variations and line extensions, including Coca-Cola Light, caffeine free Diet Coke, Cherry Coke, etc.). Likewise, when we use the capitalized word "Trademark" together with the name of one of our other beverage products (such as "Trademark Fanta," "Trademark Sprite" or "Trademark Simply"), we mean beverages bearing the indicated trademark (that is, Fanta, Sprite or Simply, respectively) and all its variations and line extensions (such that "Trademark Fanta" includes Fanta Orange, Fanta Zero Orange, Fanta Apple, etc.; "Trademark Sprite" includes Sprite, Diet Sprite, Sprite Zero, Sprite Light, etc.; and "Trademark Simply" includes Simply Orange, Simply Apple, Simply Grapefruit, etc.).

Our Company markets, manufactures and sells:

•beverage concentrates, sometimes referred to as "beverage bases," and syrups, including fountain syrups (we refer to this part of our business as our "concentrate business" or "concentrate operations"); and

•finished sparkling and still beverages (we refer to this part of our business as our "finished product business" or "finished product operations").

Generally, finished product operations generate higher net operating revenues but lower gross profit margins than concentrate operations.

In our concentrate operations, we typically generate net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to authorized bottling and canning operations (to which we typically refer as our "bottlers" or our "bottling partners"). Our bottling partners either combine the concentrates with sweeteners (depending on the product), still water and/or sparkling water, or combine the syrups with sparkling water to produce finished beverages. The finished beverages are packaged in authorized containers — such as cans and refillable and nonrefillable glass and plastic bottles — bearing our trademarks or trademarks licensed to us and are then sold to retailers directly or, in some cases, through wholesalers or other bottlers. Outside the United States, we also sell concentrates for fountain beverages to our bottling partners who are typically authorized to manufacture fountain syrups, which they sell to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers who in turn sell and distribute the fountain syrups to fountain retailers.

Our finished product operations consist primarily of our Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, including CCR. Our Company-owned or -controlled bottling, sales and distribution operations, other than CCR, are included in our Bottling Investments operating segment. CCR is included in our North America operating segment. Our finished product operations generate net operating revenues by selling sparkling beverages and a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and certain water products, to retailers or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the










fountain syrups to fountain retailers. In the United States, we authorize wholesalers to resell our fountain syrups through nonexclusive appointments that neither restrict us in setting the prices at which we sell fountain syrups to the wholesalers nor restrict the territories in which the wholesalers may resell in the United States.

For information about net operating revenues and unit case volume related to our concentrate operations and finished product operations, refer to the heading "Our Business — General" in Part II, "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

We own numerous valuable nonalcoholic beverage brands, including the following:

Coca-ColaMinute MaidGlacéau VitaminwaterDel Valle3Diet Coke/Coca-Cola LightPoweradeGeorgia1Ayataka4Coca-Cola ZeroAquariusSimply2Bonaqua/BonaqaSpriteDasaniMinute Maid PulpySchweppes5Fanta

1Georgia is primarily a coffee brand sold mainly in Japan.

2Simply is a juice and juice drink brand sold in North America.

3We manufacture, market and sell juices and juice drinks under the Del Valle trademark primarily in Mexico and Brazil through joint ventures with our bottling partners.

4Ayataka is a green tea brand sold in Japan.

5Schweppes is owned by the Company in certain countries other than the United States.



In 2012, we invested in the beverage business of Aujan Industries Company J.S.C. (“Aujan”), one of the largest independent beverage companies in the Middle East. As a result of this transaction, we acquired 50 percent of the Aujan entity that holds the rights to Aujan-owned brands, including Rani, a juice brand, and Barbican, a flavored malt beverage brand, in certain territories. In addition, Beverage Partners Worldwide ("BPW"), the Company's joint venture with Nestlé S.A.("Nestlé"), markets and distributes Nestea products in Europe, Canada, Australia and certain markets in Asia under agreements with our bottlers (the Nestea trademark is owned by Société des Produits Nestlé S.A.).

We also produce and/or distribute certain third-party brands, including certain brands of Monster Beverage Corporation (“Monster”), primarily Monster Energy, which we distribute in designated territories in the United States and Canada, and certain of our bottlers distribute in designated U.S. and international territories pursuant to master distribution and coordination agreements with Monster to which we are a party; and certain DPSG brands which we produce and distribute in designated territories in the United States and Canada pursuant to license agreements with DPSG.

Consumer demand determines the optimal menu of Company product offerings. Consumer demand can vary from one locale to another and can change over time within a single locale. Employing our business strategy, and with special focus on core brands, our Company seeks to build its existing brands and, at the same time, to broaden its historical family of brands, products and services in order to create and satisfy consumer demand locale by locale.










from certain joint ventures in which the Company has an equity interest but to which the Company does not sell concentrates or syrups may give rise to differences between unit case volume and concentrate sales volume growth rates.

Distribution System and Bottler's Agreements

We make our branded beverage products available to consumers in more than 200 countries through our network of Company-owned or -controlled bottling and distribution operations as well as independent bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers — the world's largest beverage distribution system. Consumers enjoy finished beverage products bearing our trademarks at a rate of 1.9 billion servings each day. We continue to expand our marketing presence in an effort to increase our unit case volume in developed, developing and emerging markets. Our strong and stable system helps us to capture growth by manufacturing, distributing and marketing existing, enhanced and new innovative products to our consumers throughout the world.

The Coca-Cola system sold 28.2 billion, 27.7 billion and 26.7 billion unit cases of our products in2013,2012and2011, respectively. The number of unit cases sold in 2012 does not include BPW unit case volume for those countries in which BPW was phased out during 2012, nor does it include unit case volume of products distributed in the United States under a sublicense from a subsidiary of Nestlé which terminated at the end of 2012. Sparkling beverages represented 74 percent, 75 percent and 75 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for2013,2012and2011, respectively. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for 47 percent, 48 percent and 49 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for2013,2012and2011, respectively.

In2013, unit case volume in the United States ("U.S. unit case volume") represented 19 percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume. Of the U.S. unit case volume for2013, 68 percent was attributable to sparkling beverages and 32 percent to still beverages. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for 46 percent of U.S. unit case volume for2013.

Unit case volume outside the United States represented 81 percent of the Company's worldwide unit case volume for2013. The countries outside the United States in which our unit case volumes were the largest in2013were Mexico, China, Brazil and Japan, which together accounted for 31 percent of our worldwide unit case volume. Of the non-U.S. unit case volume for2013,  75 percent was attributable to sparkling beverages and 25 percent to still beverages. Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages accounted for 48 percent of non-U.S. unit case volume for2013.

In our concentrate operations, we typically sell concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners, who use the concentrate to manufacture finished products which they sell to distributors and other customers. Outside the United States, our concentrate operations also include the sale of concentrates for fountain beverages to our bottling partners who are typically authorized to manufacture fountain syrups, which they sell to fountain retailers such as restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce beverages for immediate consumption, or to authorized fountain wholesalers who in turn sell and distribute the fountain syrups to fountain retailers.

Our five largest independent bottling partners based on unit case volume in 2013 were:

•Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Coca-Cola FEMSA”), which has bottling and distribution operations in a substantial part of central Mexico, including Mexico City, and the southeast and northeast parts of Mexico; greater São Paulo, Campinas, Santos, the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, the state of Paraná, part of the state of Goiás, part of the state of Rio de Janeiro and part of the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil; Guatemala City and the surrounding areas in Guatemala; most of Colombia; all of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela; greater Buenos Aires, Argentina; and all of the Philippines;

•Coca-Cola HBC AG (“Coca-Cola Hellenic”), which has bottling and distribution operations in Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Montenegro, Nigeria, Northern Ireland, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine;

•Arca Continental, S.A.B. de C.V., which has bottling and distribution operations in northern and western Mexico, Ecuador and northern Argentina;

•New CCE, which has bottling and distribution operations in Belgium, continental France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden; and

•Swire Beverages (“Swire”), which has bottling and distribution operations in Hong Kong, Taiwan, seven provinces in mainland China and territories in 11 states in the western United States.










In 2013, these five bottling partners combined represented 34 percent of our total unit case volume.

Being a bottler does not create a legal partnership or joint venture between us and our bottlers. Our bottlers are independent contractors and are not our agents.

In our finished product operations we typically sell finished beverages to retailers directly or to distributors, wholesalers and bottling partners who in turn distribute them to retailers. In addition, in the United States our finished product operations’ customers include fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores who use the fountain syrups for immediate consumption, and fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain syrups to fountain retailers.

Bottler’s Agreements

We have separate contracts (“Bottler’s Agreements”) with each of our bottling partners regarding the manufacture and sale of Company products. Subject to specified terms and conditions and certain variations, the Bottler’s Agreements generally authorize the bottlers to prepare specified Company Trademark Beverages, to package the same in authorized containers, and to distribute and sell the same in (but, subject to applicable local law, generally only in) an identified territory. The bottler is obligated to purchase its entire requirement of concentrates or syrups for the designated Company Trademark Beverages from the Company or Company-authorized suppliers. We typically agree to refrain from selling or distributing, or from authorizing third parties to sell or distribute, the designated Company Trademark Beverages throughout the identified territory in the particular authorized containers; however, we typically reserve for ourselves or our designee the right (1) to prepare and package such Company Trademark Beverages in such containers in the territory for sale outside the territory, (2) to prepare, package, distribute and sell such Company Trademark Beverages in the territory in any other manner or form (territorial restrictions on bottlers vary in some cases in accordance with local law), and (3) to handle certain key accounts (accounts that cover multiple territories).

While under most of our Bottler’s Agreements we generally have complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of the concentrates and syrups we sell to our bottlers, as a practical matter, our Company’s ability to exercise its contractual flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of its syrups, concentrates and finished beverages is subject, both outside and within the United States, to competitive market conditions. In addition, in some instances we have agreed or may in the future agree with a bottler with respect to concentrate pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods. Also, in some markets, in an effort to allow our Company and our bottling partners to grow together through shared value, aligned incentives and the flexibility necessary to meet consumers’ always changing needs and tastes, we worked with our bottling partners to develop and implement an incidence-based pricing model for sparkling and still beverages. Under this model, the concentrate price we charge is impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, bottler pricing, the channels in which the finished products are sold and package mix.

Under our Bottler’s Agreements, in most cases, we have no obligation to provide marketing support to the bottlers. Nevertheless, we may, at our discretion, contribute toward bottler expenditures for advertising and marketing. We may also elect to undertake independent or cooperative advertising and marketing activities.

As further discussed below, our Bottler’s Agreements for territories outside of the United States differ in some respects from our Bottler’s Agreements for territories within the United States.

Bottler's Agreements Outside the United States

The Bottler's Agreements between us and our authorized bottlers outside the United States generally are of stated duration, subject in some cases to possible extensions or renewals of the term of the contract. Generally, these contracts are subject to termination by the Company following the occurrence of certain designated events. These events include defined events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

In certain parts of the world outside the United States, we have not granted comprehensive beverage production rights to the bottlers. In such instances, we or our authorized suppliers sell Company Trademark Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution throughout the designated territory, often on a nonexclusive basis. Most of the Bottler's Agreements in force between us and bottlers outside the United States authorize the bottlers to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups, usually on a nonexclusive basis.










Bottler's Agreements Within the United States

During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, CCR, our bottling and customer service organization for North America, manufactured, sold and distributed 88 percent of our U.S. unit case volume. The discussion below relates to Bottler's Agreements and other contracts for territories in the United States that are not covered by CCR.

In the United States, with certain very limited exceptions, the Bottler's Agreements for Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored beverages have no stated expiration date. Our standard contracts for other sparkling beverage flavors and for still beverages are of stated duration, subject to bottler renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements in the United States are subject to termination by the Company for nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default that may vary from contract to contract.

Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements, bottlers in the United States are authorized to manufacture and distribute Company Trademark Beverages in bottles and cans. However, these bottlers generally are not authorized to manufacture fountain syrups. Rather, in the United States, our Company manufactures and sells fountain syrups to authorized fountain wholesalers (including certain authorized bottlers) and some fountain retailers. These wholesalers in turn sell the syrups or deliver them on our behalf to restaurants and other retailers.

Certain of the Bottler's Agreements for cola-flavored sparkling beverages in effect in the United States give us complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of concentrates and syrups for such Company Trademark Beverages. In some instances, we have agreed or may in the future agree with a bottler with respect to concentrate pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods. Certain Bottler's Agreements, entered into prior to 1987, provide for concentrates or syrups for certain Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored Company Trademark Beverages to be priced pursuant to a stated formula. Bottlers that accounted for 5.6 percent of total unit case volume in the United States in2013have contracts for certain Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other cola-flavored Company Trademark Beverages with pricing formulas that generally provide for a baseline price. This baseline price may be adjusted periodically by the Company, up to a maximum indexed ceiling price, and is adjusted quarterly based upon changes in certain sugar or sweetener prices, as applicable. Bottlers that accounted for 0.3 percent of total unit case volume in the United States in2013operate under our oldest form of contract, which provides for a fixed price for Coca-Cola syrup used in bottles and cans. This price is subject to quarterly adjustments to reflect changes in the quoted price of sugar.

We have standard contracts with bottlers in the United States for the sale of concentrates and syrups for non-cola-flavored sparkling beverages and certain still beverages in bottles and cans, and, in certain cases, for the sale of finished still beverages in bottles and cans. All of these standard contracts give the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale.

Promotions and Marketing Programs

In addition to conducting our own independent advertising and marketing activities, we may provide promotional and marketing services or funds to our bottlers. In most cases, we do this on a discretionary basis under the terms of commitment letters or agreements, even though we are not obligated to do so under the terms of the bottling or distribution agreements between our Company and the bottlers. Also, on a discretionary basis in most cases, our Company may develop and introduce new products, packages and equipment to assist the bottlers. Likewise, in many instances, we provide promotional and marketing services and/or funds and/or dispensing equipment and repair services to fountain and bottle/can retailers, typically pursuant to marketing agreements. The aggregate amount of funds provided by our Company to bottlers, resellers or other customers of our Company's products, principally for participation in promotional and marketing programs, was $6.9 billion in2013.

Investments in Bottling Operations

Most of our branded beverage products outside of North America are manufactured, sold and distributed by independent bottling partners. However, from time to time we acquire or take control of bottling or canning operations, often in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. Owning such a controlling interest enables us to compensate for limited local resources; help focus the bottler’s sales and marketing programs; assist in the development of the bottler’s business and information systems; and establish an appropriate capital structure for the bottler. In line with our long-term bottling strategy, we may periodically consider options for divesting or reducing our ownership interest in a Company-owned or -controlled bottler. One such option is to combine our interest in a particular bottler with the interests of others to form strategic business alliances. Another option is to sell our interest in a bottling operation to one of our other bottling partners in which we have an equity method investment. In both of these situations, our Company continues to participate in the bottler’s results of operations through our share of the strategic business alliance’s or equity method investee’s earnings or losses.










As described under the heading “Acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.’s Former North America Business and Related Transactions” above, on October 2, 2010, we acquired the former North America business of CCE, and we combined the management of the acquired business with the management of our existing foodservice business; Minute Maid and Odwalla juice businesses; North America supply chain operations; and Company-owned bottling operations in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to form CCR. In April 2013, we announced that we and five of our U.S. bottling partners have agreed in principle to take the next step in creating a new business model in the United States which would include more rational and contiguous operating territories; a grant of exclusive territory rights and the sale by CCR of distribution assets and cold-drink equipment to the bottlers; a finished goods model under which production assets would remain with CCR, which would facilitate future implementation of a national product supply system; an improved, more integrated information technology platform; and a newbeverage agreement that will support the evolving operating model.

In addition, from time to time we make equity investments representing noncontrolling interests in selected bottling operations with the intention of maximizing the strength and efficiency of the Coca-Cola system’s production, marketing, sales and distribution capabilities around the world. These investments are intended to result in increases in unit case volume, net revenues and profits at the bottler level, which in turn generate increased concentrate sales for our Company’s concentrate and syrup business. When this occurs, both we and our bottling partners benefit from long-term growth in volume, improved cash flows and increased shareowner value. In cases where our investments in bottlers represent noncontrolling interests, our intention is to provide expertise and resources to strengthen those businesses. When our equity investment provides us with the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee bottler’s operating and financial policies, we account for the investment under the equity method, and we sometimes refer to such a bottler as an “equity method investee bottler” or “equity method investee.”

Our equity method investee bottlers include Coca-Cola FEMSA, in which as of December 31, 2013, we had an equity ownership interest of 28 percent, and Coca-Cola Hellenic, in which as of December 31, 2013, we had an equity ownership interest of 23 percent.

Seasonality

Sales of our nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverage business may be affected by weather conditions.

Competition

The nonalcoholic beverage segment of the commercial beverage industry is highly competitive, consisting of numerous companies ranging from small or emerging to very large and well established. These include companies that, like our Company, compete in multiple geographic areas, as well as businesses that are primarily regional or local in operation. Competitive products include numerous nonalcoholic sparkling beverages; various water products, including packaged, flavored and enhanced waters; juices and nectars; fruit drinks and dilutables (including syrups and powdered drinks); coffees and teas; energy and sports and other performance-enhancing drinks; dairy-based drinks; functional beverages, including vitamin-based products and relaxation beverages; and various other nonalcoholic beverages. These competitive beverages are sold to consumers in both ready-to-drink and other than ready-to-drink form. In many of the countries in which we do business, including the United States, PepsiCo, Inc., is one of our primary competitors. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, DPSG, Groupe Danone, Mondelēz International, Inc. ("Mondelēz"), Kraft Foods Group, Inc. ("Kraft"), and the Unilever Group ("Unilever"). In certain markets, our competition includes beer companies. We also compete against numerous regional and local companies and, in some markets, against retailers that have developed their own store or private label beverage brands.

Competitive factors impacting our business include, but are not limited to, pricing, advertising, sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production techniques, the introduction of new packaging, new vending and dispensing equipment, and brand and trademark development and protection.

Our competitive strengths include leading brands with high levels of consumer acceptance; a worldwide network of bottlers and distributors of Company products; sophisticated marketing capabilities; and a talented group of dedicated associates. Our competitive challenges include strong competition in all geographic regions and, in many countries, a concentrated retail sector with powerful buyers able to freely choose among Company products, products of competitive beverage suppliers and individual retailers' own store or private label beverage brands.










Raw Materials

Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products. While historically we have not experienced significant water supply difficulties, water is a limited natural resource in many parts of the world, and our Company recognizes water availability, quality and sustainability, for both our operations and also the communities where we operate, as one of the key challenges facing our business.

In addition to water, the principal raw materials used in our business are nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, the principal nutritive sweetener is high fructose corn syrup ("HFCS"), a form of sugar, which is available from numerous domestic sources and has historically been subject to fluctuations in its market price. The principal nutritive sweetener used by our business outside the United States is sucrose, another form of sugar, which is also available from numerous sources and has historically been subject to fluctuations in its market price. Our Company generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, we purchase HFCS to meet our and our bottlers' requirements with the assistance of Coca-Cola Bottlers' Sales & Services Company LLC ("CCBSS"). CCBSS is a limited liability company that is owned by authorized Coca-Cola bottlers doing business in the United States. Among other things, CCBSS provides procurement services to our Company for the purchase of various goods and services in the United States, including HFCS.

The principal non-nutritive sweeteners we use in our business are aspartame, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, cyclamate and sucralose. Generally, these raw materials are readily available from numerous sources. However, our Company purchases aspartame, an important non-nutritive sweetener that is used alone or in combination with other important non-nutritive sweeteners such as saccharin or acesulfame potassium in our low- and no-calorie sparkling beverage products, primarily from The NutraSweet Company and Ajinomoto Co., Inc., which we consider to be our primary sources for the supply of this product. We currently purchase acesulfame potassium from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, which we consider to be our primary source for the supply of this product, and from two additional suppliers. Our Company generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for non-nutritive sweeteners.

Our Company sells a number of products sweetened with sucralose, a non-nutritive sweetener. We work closely with Tate & Lyle PLC, our primary sucralose supplier, to maintain continuity of supply, and we do not anticipate difficulties in obtaining our requirements. We also sell beverage products sweetened with a non-nutritive sweetener derived from the stevia plant. We do not anticipate difficulties sourcing stevia-based ingredients.

With regard to juice and juice drink products, juice and juice concentrate from various fruits, particularly orange juice and orange juice concentrate, are our principal raw materials. We source our orange juice and orange juice concentrate primarily from Florida and the Southern Hemisphere (particularly Brazil). Therefore, we typically have an adequate supply of orange juice and orange juice concentrate that meets our Company’s standards. However, the citrus industry is impacted by greening disease and the variability of weather conditions. In particular, freezing weather or hurricanes in central Florida may result in shortages and higher prices for orange juice and orange juice concentrate throughout the industry. In addition, greening disease is reducing the number of trees and increasing grower costs and prices.

Our Company-owned or consolidated bottling and canning operations and our finished product business also purchase various other raw materials including, but not limited to, polyethylene terephthalate ("PET") resin, preforms and bottles; glass and aluminum bottles; aluminum and steel cans; plastic closures; aseptic fiber packaging; labels; cartons; cases; postmix packaging; and carbon dioxide. We generally purchase these raw materials from multiple suppliers and historically have not experienced material shortages.

Patents, Copyrights, Trade Secrets and Trademarks

Our Company owns numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets, as well as substantial know-how and technology, which we collectively refer to in this report as "technology." This technology generally relates to our Company's products and the processes for their production; the packages used for our products; the design and operation of various processes and equipment used in our business; and certain quality assurance software. Some of the technology is licensed to suppliers and other parties. Our sparkling beverage and other beverage formulae are among the important trade secrets of our Company.

We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Pursuant to our Bottler's Agreements, we authorize our bottlers to use applicable Company trademarks in connection with their manufacture, sale and distribution of Company products. In addition, we grant licenses to third parties from time to time to use certain of our trademarks in conjunction with certain merchandise and food products.










Governmental Regulation

Our Company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions.

In the United States, the safety, production, transportation, distribution, advertising, labeling and sale of many of our Company's products and their ingredients are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act; state consumer protection laws; competition laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements.

Under a California law known as Proposition 65, if the state has determined that a substance causes cancer or harms human reproduction, a warning must appear on any product sold in the state containing that substance. The state maintains lists of these substances and periodically adds other substances to these lists. Proposition 65 exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in California because it does not provide for any generally applicable quantitative threshold below which the presence of a listed substance is exempt from the warning requirement. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. However, Proposition 65 does not require a warning if the manufacturer of a product can demonstrate that the use of that product exposes consumers to a daily quantity of a listed substance that is:

•below a "safe harbor" threshold that may be established;

•naturally occurring;

•the result of necessary cooking; or

•subject to another applicable exemption.

One or more substances that are currently on the Proposition 65 lists, or that may be added in the future, can be detected in Company products at low levels that are safe. With respect to substances that have not yet been listed under Proposition 65, the Company takes the position that listing is not scientifically justified. With respect to substances that are already listed, the Company takes the position that the presence of each such substance in Company products is subject to an applicable exemption from the warning requirement. The State of California and other parties, however, have in the past taken and may in the future take a contrary position.

Bottlers of our beverage products presently offer and use nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and various other markets around the world. Some of these bottlers also offer and use refillable containers, which are also recyclable. Legal requirements apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, marketing and use of certain beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other types of statutes and regulations relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotaxes and/or product stewardship also apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas. We anticipate that additional, similar legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

All of our Company's facilities and other operations in the United States and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect on our Company's capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.










Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, our Company had approximately130,600and 150,900 employees, respectively, of which approximately 4,100 and 4,400, respectively, were employed by consolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs"). The decrease in the total number of employees in2013was primarily due to the deconsolidation of bottling operations in the Philippines and Brazil. As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, our Company had approximately66,800and 68,300 employees, respectively, located in the United States, of which approximately 500 were employed by consolidated VIEs in both years.

Our Company, through its divisions and subsidiaries, is a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately18,000employees, excluding seasonal hires, in North America were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements typically have terms ofthreetofiveyears. We currently expect that we will be able to renegotiate such agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire.

The Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally satisfactory.

Securities Exchange Act Reports

The Company maintains a website at the following address: www.coca-colacompany.com. The information on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K.

We make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



