ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

In this report, the terms "The Coca-Cola Company," "Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean The Coca-Cola Company and all
entities included in our consolidated financial statements.

General

The Coca-Cola Company is the world's leading owner and marketer of nonalcoholic beverage brands and the world's largest manufacturer,
distributor and marketer of concentrates and syrups used to produce nonalcoholic beverages. We own or license and market more than 500 nonalcoholic beverage brands, primarily sparkling beverages but
also a variety of still beverages such as waters, enhanced waters, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees, and energy and sports drinks. Finished beverage
products bearing our trademarks, sold in the United States since 1886, are now sold in more than 200 countries. Along with Coca-Cola, which is recognized as the world's most valuable
brand, we own and market four of the world's top five nonalcoholic sparkling beverage brands, including Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite.

We
manufacture beverage concentrates and syrups, which we sell to authorized bottling and canning operations (to which we typically refer as our "bottlers" or our "bottling partners") who use the
concentrates and syrups to produce finished beverage products. We also manufacture, or authorize bottling partners to manufacture, fountain syrups, which we sell to fountain retailers such as
restaurants and convenience stores which use the fountain syrups to produce finished beverages for immediate consumption, or to fountain wholesalers or bottlers, which in turn sell and distribute the
fountain syrups to fountain retailers. In addition, we manufacture certain finished beverages, such as juices and juice drinks and water products, which we sell to retailers directly or through
wholesalers or other distributors, including bottling partners.

While
most of our branded beverage products are manufactured, sold and distributed by independently owned and managed bottling partners, from time to time we do acquire or take control of bottling or
canning operations, often, but not always, in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. In addition, we have noncontrolling ownership
interests in numerous beverage joint ventures, bottling partners and emerging beverage companies.

We
make our branded beverage products available to consumers throughout the world through our network of bottling partners, distributors, wholesalers and retailers — the world's
largest beverage distribution system.

We
were incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of Delaware and succeeded to the business of a Georgia corporation with the same name that had been organized in 1892.

Our
Company is one of numerous competitors in the commercial beverages market. Of the approximately 54 billion beverage servings of all types consumed worldwide every day, beverages bearing
trademarks owned by or licensed to us account for approximately 1.6 billion.








We
believe that our success depends on our ability to connect with consumers by providing them with a wide variety of choices to meet their desires, needs and lifestyle choices. Our success further
depends on the ability of our people to execute effectively, every day.

Our
goal is to use our Company's assets — our brands, financial strength, unrivaled distribution system, global reach and the talent and strong commitment of our management and
associates — to become more competitive and to accelerate growth in a manner that creates value for our shareowners.

Operating Segments

The Company's operating structure is the basis for our internal financial reporting. As of December 31, 2009, our operating structure included
the following operating segments, the first six of which are sometimes referred to as "operating groups" or "groups":

•Eurasia and Africa•Europe•Latin America•North America•Pacific•Bottling Investments•Corporate

Except
to the extent that differences among operating segments are material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole, the description of our business in this report is presented on a
consolidated basis.

For
financial information about our operating segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report, incorporated herein by reference. For certain risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, refer to "Item 1A. Risk
Factors," below.

Products and Distribution

Our Company manufactures and sells beverage concentrates, sometimes referred to as "beverage bases," syrups, including fountain syrups, and finished
beverages.

As
used in this report:

•"concentrates" means flavoring ingredients and, depending on the product, sweeteners used to prepare syrups or finished
beverages, and includes powders for purified water products such as Dasani;•"syrups" means beverage ingredients produced by combining concentrates and, depending on the product, sweeteners and added
water;•"fountain syrups" means syrups that are sold to fountain retailers, such as restaurants and convenience stores, which use
dispensing equipment to mix the syrups with sparkling or still water at the time of purchase to produce finished beverages that are served in cups or glasses for immediate consumption;•"sparkling beverages" means nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages with carbonation, including
carbonated energy drinks and carbonated waters and flavored waters;•"still beverages" means nonalcoholic beverages without carbonation, including noncarbonated waters, flavored waters and
enhanced waters, noncarbonated energy drinks, juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink teas and coffees and sports drinks;•"Company Trademark Beverages" means beverages bearing our trademarks and certain other beverage products bearing
trademarks licensed to us by third parties for which we provide marketing support and from the sale of which we derive economic benefit; and








•"Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages" or "Trademark Coca-Cola" means beverages bearing the trademark
Coca-Cola or any trademark that includes Coca-Cola or Coke (that is, Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Zero and all their variations and line
extensions, including Coca-Cola Light, Coke Zero, Diet Coke with Lemon, Cherry Coke, etc.). Likewise, when we use the capitalized word "Trademark" together with the name of one of our
other beverage products (such as "Trademark Fanta," "Trademark Sprite" or "Trademark Simply"), we mean beverages bearing the indicated trademark (that is, Fanta, Sprite or Simply, respectively) and
all its variations and line extensions (such that "Trademark Fanta" includes Fanta Orange, Fanta Zero Orange and Fanta Apple; "Trademark Sprite" includes Sprite, Diet Sprite, Sprite Zero and Sprite
Light; and "Trademark Simply" includes Simply Orange, Simply Apple and Simply Grapefruit).

We
sell the concentrates and syrups for bottled and canned sparkling and flavored still beverages to authorized bottling and canning operations. Our bottling partners either combine our syrups with
sparkling water or combine our concentrates with sweeteners (depending on the product), still water and/or sparkling water to produce finished beverages. The finished beverages are packaged in
authorized containers bearing our trademarks or trademarks licensed to us — such as cans and refillable and nonrefillable glass and plastic bottles — and are then
sold to retailers directly or, in some cases, through wholesalers or bottlers.

For
our fountain products in the United States, we manufacture fountain syrups and sell them to fountain retailers or to authorized fountain wholesalers or bottling partners who resell the fountain
syrups to fountain retailers. In the United States, we authorize wholesalers to resell our fountain syrups through nonexclusive appointments that neither restrict us in setting the prices at which we
sell fountain syrups to the wholesalers nor restrict the territories in which the wholesalers may resell in the United States. Outside the United States, fountain syrups typically are manufactured by
authorized bottlers from concentrates sold to them by the Company. The bottlers then typically sell the fountain syrups to wholesalers or directly to fountain retailers.

We
also manufacture a variety of still beverages, such as juices and juice drinks and certain water products, which we sell to retailers and wholesalers in the United States and numerous other
countries, both directly and through a network of business partners, including certain bottling partners. In addition, our Company-owned or consolidated bottling operations manufacture finished
products, primarily sparkling beverages, which they sell to other bottlers, distributors or wholesalers, or directly to retailers.










Partners GmbH,
a joint venture between Ilko and Coca-Cola Hellenic, manufacture, market and sell ready-to-drink coffees under the illy issimo brand.

Consumer
demand determines the optimal menu of Company product offerings. Consumer demand can vary from one locale to another and can change over time within a single locale. Employing our business
strategy, and with special focus on core brands, our Company seeks to build its existing brands and, at the same time, to broaden its historical family of brands, products and services in order to
create and satisfy consumer demand locale by locale.

In
keeping with our commitment to sustainability, during 2009, we launched our innovative PlantBottle packaging, a PET bottle made partially from plants. The PlantBottle packaging, like our existing
PET bottles, is 100 percent recyclable. Coca-Cola, Coca-Cola Light and Coca-Cola Zero in 500 milliliter and 2 liter sizes are now available in PlantBottle
packaging to consumers in Denmark, and certain products are available in PlantBottle packaging in selected markets in Western Canada and Western United States. In addition, in 2009, we unveiled our
new Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispenser in selected locations in the United States. Coca-Cola Freestyle allows consumers to select from more than 100 different regular and
low-calorie branded beverages, including a variety of still beverages.






The Coca-Cola system sold approximately 24.4 billion, 23.7 billion and 22.7 billion unit cases of our products in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sparkling
beverages represented approximately 77 percent, 78 percent and 80 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Trademark Coca-Cola
Beverages accounted for approximately 51 percent, 51 percent and 53 percent of our worldwide unit case volume for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In
2009, concentrate sales in the United States ("U.S. concentrate sales") represented approximately 22 percent of the Company's worldwide concentrate sales. Approximately 51 percent of
U.S. concentrate sales for 2009 was attributable to sales of beverage concentrates and syrups to 74 authorized bottler ownership groups in 393 licensed territories. Those bottlers prepare and sell
Company Trademark Beverages for the food store and vending machine distribution channels and for other distribution channels supplying products for home and immediate consumption. Approximately
34 percent of 2009 U.S. concentrate sales was attributable to fountain syrups sold to fountain retailers and to 451 authorized fountain wholesalers, some of which are authorized bottlers. The
remaining approximately 15 percent of 2009 U.S. concentrate sales was attributable to sales by the Company of finished beverages, including juices and juice drink products and certain water
products. Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE"), accounted for approximately 47 percent of the Company's U.S. concentrate sales in 2009. At December 31, 2009, our Company
held an ownership interest of approximately 34 percent in CCE, which is the world's largest bottler of Company Trademark Beverages.

In
2009, concentrate sales outside the United States represented approximately 78 percent of the Company's worldwide concentrate sales. The countries outside the United States in which our
concentrate sales were the largest in 2009 were Mexico, China, Brazil and Japan, which together accounted for approximately 31 percent of our worldwide concentrate sales. Approximately
89 percent of non-U.S. unit case volume for 2009 was attributable to sales of beverage concentrates and syrups to authorized bottlers together with sales by the Company of finished
beverages, other than juice and juice-drink products, in 464 licensed territories. Approximately 5 percent of 2009 non-U.S. unit case volume was attributable to fountain syrups. The
remaining approximately 6 percent of 2009 non-U.S. unit case volume was attributable to juice and juice-drink products.

In
addition to conducting our own independent advertising and marketing activities, we may provide promotional and marketing services or funds to our bottlers. In most cases, we do this on a
discretionary basis under the terms of commitment letters or agreements, even though we are not obligated to do so under the terms of the bottling or
distribution agreements between our Company and the bottlers. Also, on a discretionary basis in most cases, our Company may develop and introduce new products, packages and equipment to assist its
bottlers. Likewise, in many instances, we provide promotional and marketing services and/or funds and/or dispensing equipment and repair services to fountain and bottle/can retailers, typically
pursuant to marketing agreements. The aggregate amount of funds provided by our Company to bottlers, resellers or other customers of our Company's products, principally for participation in
promotional and marketing programs, was approximately $4.5 billion in 2009.

Bottler's Agreements and Distribution Agreements

Being
a bottler does not create a legal partnership or joint venture between us and our bottlers. Our bottlers are independent contractors and are not our agents.








The
Bottler's Agreements between us and our authorized bottlers in the United States differ in certain respects from those in the other countries in which Company Trademark Beverages are sold. As
further discussed below, the principal differences involve the duration of the agreements; the inclusion or exclusion of canned beverage production rights; the inclusion or exclusion of authorizations
to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups; in some cases, the degree of flexibility on the part of the Company to determine the pricing of syrups and concentrates; and the extent, if any, of the
Company's obligation to provide marketing support.

Outside the United States

The Bottler's Agreements between us and our authorized bottlers outside the United States generally are of stated duration, subject in some cases to
possible extensions or renewals of the term of the contract. Generally, these contracts are subject to termination by the Company following the occurrence of certain designated events. These events
include defined events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

In
certain parts of the world outside the United States, we have not granted comprehensive beverage production rights to the bottlers. In such instances, we or our authorized suppliers sell Company
Trademark Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution throughout the designated territory, often on a nonexclusive basis. A majority of the Bottler's Agreements in force between us and
bottlers outside the United States authorize the bottlers to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups, usually on a nonexclusive basis.

Our
Company generally has complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of the concentrates and syrups we sell to bottlers outside the United States. In some instances, however,
we have agreed or may in the future agree with a bottler with respect to concentrate pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods. In some markets, in an effort to allow our Company and
our bottling partners to grow together through shared value, aligned incentives and the flexibility necessary to meet consumers' always changing needs and tastes, we worked with our bottling partners
to develop and implement an incidence-based pricing model for sparkling and still beverages. Under this model, the concentrate price we charge is impacted by a number of factors, including, but not
limited to, bottler pricing, the channels in which the finished products are sold and package mix. Outside the United States, in most cases, we have no obligation to provide marketing support to the
bottlers. Nevertheless, we may, at our discretion, contribute toward bottler expenditures for advertising and marketing. We may also elect to undertake independent or cooperative advertising and
marketing activities.

Within the United States

In the United States, with certain very limited exceptions, the Bottler's Agreements for Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages and other
cola-flavored beverages have no stated expiration date. Our standard contracts for other sparkling beverage flavors and for still beverages are of stated duration, subject to bottler
renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements in the United States are subject to termination by the Company for nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default that may vary
from contract to contract. The "1987 Contract," described below, is terminable by the Company upon the occurrence of certain events, including:

•the bottler's insolvency, dissolution, receivership or the like;•any disposition by the bottler or any of its subsidiaries of any voting securities of any bottler subsidiary without the
consent of the Company;•any material breach of any obligation of the bottler under the 1987 Contract; or•except in the case of certain bottlers, if a person or affiliated group acquires or obtains any right to acquire
beneficial ownership of more than 10 percent of any class or series of voting securities of the bottler without authorization by the Company.

Under
the terms of the Bottler's Agreements, bottlers in the United States are authorized to manufacture and distribute Company Trademark Beverages in bottles and cans. However, these bottlers
generally are not authorized to manufacture fountain syrups. Rather, as described above, our Company manufactures and sells fountain syrups to authorized fountain wholesalers (including certain
authorized bottlers) and some fountain retailers. These wholesalers in turn sell the syrups or deliver them on our behalf to restaurants and other retailers.








We
have standard contracts with bottlers in the United States for the sale of concentrates and syrups for non-cola-flavored sparkling beverages and certain still beverages in
bottles and cans, and, in certain cases, for the sale of finished still beverages in bottles and cans. All of these standard contracts give the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and
other terms of sale.

In
an effort to allow our Company and our bottling partners to grow together through shared value, aligned incentives and the flexibility necessary to meet consumers' always changing needs and tastes,
we worked with the majority of our bottling partners to develop and implement an incidence-based pricing model, primarily for sparkling beverages. Under this model, the concentrate price we charge is
impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, bottler pricing, the channels in which the finished products are sold and package mix. We expect to use an incidence-based pricing model
in 2010 for most of our bottlers operating under the 1987 Contract.

Under
the 1987 Contract and most of our other standard beverage contracts with bottlers in the United States, our Company has no obligation to participate with bottlers in expenditures for advertising
and marketing. Nevertheless, at our discretion, we may contribute toward such expenditures and undertake independent or cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements
that predate the 1987 Contract impose certain marketing obligations on us with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.

As
a practical matter, our Company's ability to exercise its contractual flexibility to determine the price and other terms of sale of its syrups, concentrates and finished beverages under various
agreements described above is subject, both outside and within the United States, to competitive market conditions.

Significant Equity Method Investments and Company Bottling Operations

Our Company maintains business relationships with three types of bottlers:

•bottlers in which the Company has no ownership interest;•bottlers in which the Company has invested and has a noncontrolling ownership interest; and•bottlers in which the Company has invested and has a controlling ownership interest.

In
2009, bottling operations in which we had no ownership interest produced and distributed approximately 23 percent of our worldwide unit case volume. During 2009, we had equity positions in
38 unconsolidated bottling, canning and distribution operations for our products worldwide. These cost or equity method investees produced and distributed approximately 56 percent of our
worldwide unit case volume in 2009. Company-owned or consolidated bottling operations produced and distributed approximately 11 percent of our worldwide unit case volume in 2009. The remaining
approximately 10 percent of our worldwide unit case volume in 2009 was produced by our fountain operations and our juice and juice drink, sports drink and other finished beverage operations.

We
make equity investments in selected bottling operations with the intention of maximizing the strength and efficiency of the Coca-Cola system's production, distribution and marketing
capabilities around the world. These investments are










intended
to result in increases in unit case volume, net revenues and profits at the bottler level, which in turn generate increased concentrate sales for our Company's concentrate and syrup business.
When this occurs, both we and our bottling partners benefit from long-term growth in volume, improved cash flows and increased shareowner value.

The
level of our investment generally depends on the bottler's capital structure and its available resources at the time of the investment. Historically, in certain situations, we have viewed it as
advantageous to acquire a controlling interest in a bottling operation, often on a temporary basis. Owning such a controlling interest has allowed us to compensate for limited local resources and has
enabled us to help focus the bottler's sales and marketing programs and assist in the development of the bottler's business and information systems and the establishment of appropriate capital
structures.

In
line with our long-term bottling strategy, we may periodically consider options for reducing our ownership interest in a bottler. One such option is to combine our bottling interests
with the bottling interests of others to form strategic business alliances. Another option is to sell our interest in a bottling operation to one of our equity method investee bottlers. In both of
these situations, our Company continues to participate in the bottler's results of operations through our share of the strategic business alliances' or equity method investees' earnings or losses.

In
cases where our investments in bottlers represent noncontrolling interests, our intention is to provide expertise and resources to strengthen those businesses.

Significant
investees in which we have noncontrolling ownership interests include the following:

Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("CCE").Our ownership interest in CCE was approximately 34 percent at December 31, 2009. CCE is the
world's largest bottler of Company Trademark Beverages. In 2009, sales of concentrates, syrups, mineral waters, juices, sweeteners and finished products by the Company to CCE were approximately
$6.5 billion.
CCE estimates that the territories in which it markets beverage products to retailers (which include portions of 46 states and the District of Columbia in the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands
and certain other Caribbean islands, Canada, Great Britain, continental France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Monaco) contain approximately 78 percent of the United States
population, 98 percent of the population of Canada, and 100 percent of the populations of Great Britain, continental France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Monaco. In 2009,
CCE's net operating revenues were approximately $21.6 billion. Excluding fountain products, in 2009, approximately 60 percent of the unit case volume of CCE consisted of Trademark
Coca-Cola Beverages; approximately 33 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages; and approximately 7 percent of its unit case volume
consisted of beverage products of other companies.

Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. ("Coca-Cola Hellenic").Our ownership interest in Coca-Cola Hellenic was
approximately 23 percent at December 31, 2009. Coca-Cola Hellenic has bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in Armenia, Austria,
Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Montenegro, Nigeria,
Northern Ireland, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine. Coca-Cola Hellenic estimates that the area in these 28 countries which
it serves through its bottling and distribution rights has a combined population of 560 million people. In 2009, Coca-Cola Hellenic's net sales of beverage products were
approximately $10 billion. In 2009, approximately 42 percent of the unit case volume of Coca-Cola Hellenic consisted of Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages;
approximately 53 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages; and approximately 5 percent of its unit case volume consisted of beverage products of
Coca-Cola Hellenic or other companies.

Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Coca-Cola FEMSA").Our ownership interest in Coca-Cola FEMSA was approximately
32 percent at December 31, 2009. Coca-Cola FEMSA is a Mexican holding company with bottling subsidiaries in a substantial part of central Mexico, including Mexico City and
southeastern Mexico; greater São Paulo, Campinas, Santos, the state of Matto Grosso do Sul, the state of Minas Gerais and part of the state of Goias in Brazil; central Guatemala; most
of Colombia; all of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela; and greater Buenos Aires, Argentina. Coca-Cola FEMSA estimates that the territories in which it markets beverage products
contain approximately 47 percent of the population of Mexico, 25 percent of the population of Brazil, 98 percent of the population of Colombia, 48 percent of the population
of Guatemala, 100 percent of the populations of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela, and 31 percent of the population of Argentina. In 2009, Coca-Cola FEMSA's net
sales of beverage products were approximately $8 billion. In 2009, approximately 63 percent of the unit case volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA consisted of Trademark
Coca-Cola Beverages; approximately 36 percent of its unit case volume










consisted
of other Company Trademark Beverages; and approximately 1 percent of its unit case volume consisted of beverage products of Coca-Cola FEMSA or other companies.

Coca-Cola Amatil Limited ("Coca-Cola Amatil").Our Company's ownership interest in Coca-Cola Amatil was approximately
30 percent at December 31, 2009. Coca-Cola Amatil
has bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. Coca-Cola Amatil estimates that the
territories in which it markets beverage products contain 100 percent of the populations of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua New Guinea, and 98 percent of the population of
Indonesia. In 2009, Coca-Cola Amatil's net sales of beverage products were approximately $3.1 billion. In 2009, approximately 48 percent of the unit case volume of
Coca-Cola Amatil consisted of Trademark Coca-Cola Beverages; approximately 41 percent of its unit case volume consisted of other Company Trademark Beverages; and
approximately 11 percent of its unit case volume consisted of beverage products of Coca-Cola Amatil or other companies.

Seasonality

Sales of our ready-to-drink nonalcoholic beverages are somewhat seasonal, with the second and third calendar quarters
accounting for the highest sales volumes. The volume of sales in the beverages business may be affected by weather conditions.

Competition

Our Company competes in the nonalcoholic beverages segment of the commercial beverages industry. The nonalcoholic beverages segment of the commercial
beverages industry is highly competitive, consisting of numerous firms. These include firms that, like our Company, compete in multiple geographic areas, as well as firms that are primarily regional
or local in operation. Competitive products include numerous nonalcoholic sparkling beverages; various water products, including packaged, flavored and enhanced waters; juices and nectars; fruit
drinks and dilutables (including syrups and powdered drinks); coffees and teas; energy and sports and other performance-enhancing drinks; dairy-based drinks; functional beverages; and various other
nonalcoholic beverages. These competitive beverages are sold to consumers in both ready-to-drink and other than ready-to-drink form. In many of the
countries in which we do business, including the United States, PepsiCo, Inc., is one of our primary competitors. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to,
Nestlé, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., Groupe Danone, Kraft Foods Inc. and Unilever. In certain markets, our competition includes beer companies. We also compete
against numerous regional and local firms and, in some markets, against retailers that have developed their own store or private label beverage brands.

Competitive
factors impacting our business include, but are not limited to, pricing, advertising, sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production techniques, the
introduction of new packaging, new vending and dispensing equipment, and brand and trademark development and protection.

Our
competitive strengths include leading brands with a high level of consumer acceptance; a worldwide network of bottlers and distributors of Company products; sophisticated marketing capabilities;
and a talented group of dedicated associates. Our competitive challenges include strong competition in all geographic regions and, in many countries, a concentrated retail sector with powerful buyers
able to freely choose among Company products, products of competitive beverage suppliers and individual retailers' own store or private label beverage brands.

Raw Materials

Water is a main ingredient in substantially all of our products. While historically we have not experienced significant water supply difficulties,
water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and our Company recognizes water availability, quality and the sustainability of that natural resource for both our operations and also the
communities where we operate as one of the key challenges facing our business.

In
addition to water, the principal raw materials used by our business are nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, the principal nutritive sweetener is high fructose
corn syrup ("HFCS"), a form of sugar, which is available from numerous domestic sources and is historically subject to fluctuations in its market price. The principal nutritive sweetener used by our
business outside the United States is sucrose, another form of sugar, which is also available from numerous sources and is historically subject to fluctuations in its market price. Our Company
generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for nutritive sweeteners. In the United States, we










purchase
HFCS to meet our and our bottlers' requirements with the assistance of Coca-Cola Bottlers' Sales & Services Company LLC ("CCBSS"). CCBSS is a limited liability
company that is owned by authorized Coca-Cola bottlers doing business in the United States. Among other things, CCBSS provides procurement services to our Company for the purchase of
various goods and services in the United States, including HFCS.

The
principal non-nutritive sweeteners we use in our business are aspartame, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, cyclamate and sucralose. Generally, these raw materials are readily available
from numerous sources. However, our Company purchases aspartame, an important non-nutritive sweetener that is used alone or in combination with other important non-nutritive
sweeteners such as saccharin or acesulfame potassium in our low-calorie sparkling beverage products, primarily from The NutraSweet Company and Ajinomoto Co., Inc., which we
consider to be our primary sources for the supply of this product. We currently purchase acesulfame potassium from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, which we
consider to be our primary source for the supply of this product, and from two additional suppliers. Our Company generally has not experienced any difficulties in obtaining its requirements for
non-nutritive sweeteners.

Our
Company sells a number of products sweetened with sucralose, a non-nutritive sweetener. We work closely with Tate & Lyle, our sucralose supplier, to maintain continuity of
supply. Although Tate & Lyle is our single source for sucralose, we do not anticipate difficulties in obtaining our requirements for sucralose.

With
regard to juice and juice-drink products, citrus fruit, particularly orange juice concentrate, is our principal raw material. The citrus industry is subject to the variability of weather
conditions. In particular, freezing weather or hurricanes in central Florida may result in shortages and higher prices for orange juice concentrate throughout the industry. Due to our ability to also
source orange juice concentrate from the Southern Hemisphere (particularly from Brazil), we normally have an adequate supply of orange juice concentrate that meets our Company's standards.

Our
Company-owned or consolidated bottling and canning operations and our finished products business also purchase various other raw materials including, but not limited to, PET resin, preforms and
bottles; glass and aluminum bottles; aluminum and steel cans; plastic closures; aseptic fiber packaging; labels; cartons; cases; post-mix packaging; and carbon dioxide. We generally
purchase these raw materials from multiple suppliers and historically have not experienced material shortages.

Patents, Copyrights, Trade Secrets and Trademarks

Our Company owns numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets, as well as substantial know-how and technology, which we collectively
refer to in this report as "technology." This technology generally relates to our Company's products and the processes for their production; the packages used for our products; the design and
operation of various processes and equipment used in our business; and certain quality assurance software. Some of the technology is licensed to suppliers and other parties. Our sparkling beverage and
other beverage formulae are among the important trade secrets of our Company.

We
own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.
Pursuant to our Bottler's Agreements, we authorize our bottlers to use applicable Company trademarks in connection with their manufacture, sale and distribution of Company products. In addition, we
grant licenses to third parties from time to time to use certain of our trademarks in conjunction with certain merchandise and food products.

Governmental Regulation

Our Company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do
business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our
competitive position in those jurisdictions.

The
production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our Company's products are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act;
state consumer protection laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local
statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production,










distribution
and sale of our many products and related operations are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations.

A
California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law exposes all food
and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products because it recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required.
Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. Products containing listed substances that occur
naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. The Company is not currently required to display warnings under
this law on any Company beverages produced for sale in California. In the future, however, caffeine and other substances detectable in Company products may be added to the California list pursuant to
this law and the related regulations as they currently exist, or as they may be amended. Furthermore, we are unable to predict when or whether the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology may
result in the detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in a Company beverage produced for sale in California.

Bottlers
of our beverage products presently offer and use nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and various other markets around the world. Some of these bottlers also offer and
use refillable containers, which are also recyclable. Legal requirements apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged
for the sale, marketing and use of certain nonrefillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other types of statutes and regulations relating to beverage
container deposits, recycling, ecotaxes and/or product stewardship also apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas. We anticipate that additional, similar legal requirements may
be proposed or enacted in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere.

All
of our Company's facilities and other operations in the United States and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those
relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect
such compliance to have, any material adverse effect on our Company's capital expenditures, net income or competitive position.

Employees

We refer to our employees as "associates." As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our Company had approximately 92,800 and 92,400 associates,
respectively, of which approximately 17,900 and 16,500,
respectively, were employed by consolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs"). The increase in the total number of associates in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in the Latin America operating
group driven by its finished product business, as well as an increase in the Bottling Investments operating group. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the Company's ongoing
productivity initiatives. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our Company had approximately 11,700 and 13,000 associates, respectively, located in the United States, including Puerto Rico, of
which approximately 190 and 90, respectively, were employed by consolidated VIEs.

Our
Company, through its divisions and subsidiaries, has entered into numerous collective bargaining agreements. We currently expect that we will be able to renegotiate such agreements on satisfactory
terms when they expire. The Company believes that its relations with its associates are generally satisfactory.

Securities Exchange Act Reports

The Company maintains a website at the following address: www.thecoca-colacompany.com. The information on the Company's website is not incorporated
by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K.

We
make available on or through our website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our
current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or
furnish it to, the SEC.








