Item 1A.RISK FACTORS

We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Common Stock”). In evaluating us, our business and a potential investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors and the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC. The risks addressed below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also adversely impact our business.

Industry Risks

We May Experience Pricing Variability

Our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue experiencing, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. Prices for our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products and competitive conditions in the industries within which we compete, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. If supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. For example, we believe that the trading price of our Common Stock was adversely affected in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019 due, in part, to concerns about announcements by certain of our competitors of planned additional capacity in the North American containerboard market, as well as the subsequent implementation of certain of those plans.

Certain published indices (including those published by Pulp and Paper Week (“PPW”)) contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. PPW is a limited survey that may not accurately reflect changes in market conditions for our products. Changes in how PPW is maintained, or other indices are established or maintained, could adversely impact the selling prices for these products.

Our Earnings Are Highly Dependent on Volumes

Because our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. Any failure to maintain volumes may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Face Increased Costs For, or Inadequate Availability of, Raw Materials, Energy and Transportation

We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials, energy sources and third-party companies to transport our goods.

The costs of recycled fiber and virgin fiber, the principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. Demand for recycled fiber has fluctuated and may increase due to, among other factors, the addition of new recycled paper mill capacity, increasing demand for products packaged in packaging produced from paper manufactured from 100% recycled fiber and the shift by






manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled fiber content. In 2018, China implemented a ban on the importation of some categories of recyclable materials (including mixed paper) and set strict contamination levels for other recovered paper imports. The implementation of these policies resulted in lower demand for recycled fiber in the U.S. and lower associated costs for us in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019. If China ends or changes these policies, demand for recycled fiber may increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. The market price of virgin fiber varies based on availability and source of virgin fiber, and the availability of virgin fiber may be impacted by, among other factors, weather conditions. In fiscal 2019, the profitability of our U.S. operations was adversely impacted by wet weather conditions, particularly in the southern portion of the U.S., which adversely impacted the availability of virgin fiber at some of our mills. In addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing operations fluctuate, which impacts our manufacturing costs. Certain published indices contribute to price setting for some of our raw materials and future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact the pricing of these raw materials.

The cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) has at times fluctuated significantly. High energy costs could increase our operating costs and make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.

We distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. The reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could adversely impact our ability to distribute our products in a timely manner. High transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.

Because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we may not be able to recoup past or future increases in the cost of raw materials, energy or transportation through price increases for our products. The failure to obtain raw materials, energy or transportation services at reasonable market prices (or the failure to pass on price increases to our customers) or a reduction in the availability of raw materials, energy or transportation services due to increased demand, significant changes in climate or weather conditions, or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We Face Intense Competition

We compete in industries that are highly competitive. Our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. We generally compete with companies operating in North America, although we have operations spanning North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Factors affecting our ability to compete include the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, increased competition from overseas producers, our competitors’ pricing strategies, the introduction by our competitors of new technologies and equipment, our ability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and our ability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. In addition, changes within these industries, including the consolidation of our competitors and our customers, may impact competitive dynamics. For example, in 2018, International Paper Company completed the combination of its North American consumer packaging business with a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company, which competes with our Consumer Packaging segment. If our competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.

Our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. Customer shifts away from containerboard and paperboard packaging to packaging made from other materials could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.






Operating Risks

We May Be Unsuccessful in Making and Integrating Mergers, Acquisitions and Investments, and Completing Divestitures

We have completed a number of mergers, acquisitions, investments and divestitures in recent years, including the Combination, our investment in Gondi, S.A. de C.V. (“Grupo Gondi”), the Separation, the HH&B Sale, the MPS Acquisition and the KapStone Acquisition, and we may acquire, invest in or sell, or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. We may not be able to identify suitable targets or purchasers or successfully complete suitable transactions in the future, and completed transactions may not be successful. These transactions create risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:



•disrupting our ongoing business, including distracting management from our existing businesses;•integrating acquired businesses and personnel into our business, including integrating information technology systems and operations across different cultures and languages, and addressing the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;•working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority;•obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory risk exposure;•obtaining required regulatory approvals and/or financing on favorable terms;•retaining key employees, contractual relationships or customers;•the potential impairment of assets and goodwill;•the additional operating losses and expenses of businesses we acquire or in which we invest;•implementing controls, procedures and policies at companies we acquire; and•the dilution of interests of holders of our Common Stock through the issuance of equity securities.

Mergers, acquisitions and investments may not be successful and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. Among the benefits we expect from potential, as well as completed, acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers that place higher strategic value on these businesses and assets than we do. For acquisitions, our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of realizing them depend on the successful integration of the acquired businesses and operations with our business and operations. Even if we integrate these businesses and operations successfully, we may not realize the full benefits we expected within the anticipated timeframe, or at all, and the benefits may be offset by unanticipated costs or delays.

We expect the KapStone Acquisition to generate run-rate synergies and performance improvements of more than $200 million by the end of fiscal 2021. The success of the KapStone Acquisition will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies. Our success in realizing these benefits, and the timing of realizing these benefits, will depend on us successfully integrating KapStone with our Corrugated Packaging business, which may be more difficult, complex, costly and time consuming than we expect. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the KapStone Acquisition may disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others. If we are not able to successfully integrate KapStone within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected cost savings and synergies and other benefits of the KapStone Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer or cost us more to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected, management’s time and energy may be diverted, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.






Our Acquisition of KapStone Subjects Us to Various Risks and Uncertainties

As a result of the KapStone Acquisition, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the following:

•we may fail to realize anticipated synergies, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other benefits;•our incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with financing the KapStone Acquisition may have an adverse effect on our liquidity, limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•we may not be able to integrate KapStone without encountering difficulties and diverting management’s focus and resources from ordinary business activities and opportunities;•we may face challenges retaining KapStone’s customers and suppliers; and•we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues.

Any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Incur Business Disruptions

The operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:

•catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather, including hurricanes, tornados and droughts, or other similar occurrences;•interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs;•adverse government regulations;•equipment breakdowns or failures;•prolonged power failures;•unscheduled maintenance outages;•information system disruptions or failures due to any number of causes, including cyber-attacks;•violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits;•releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water;•disruptions in transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels;•shortages of equipment or spare parts; and•labor disputes and shortages.

For example, in 2018, operations at our Florence, South Carolina and Panama City, FL mills were interrupted by hurricanes, resulting in lost mill production and the incurrence of damages, supply chain disruptions and increased input costs (see “Note 7. Segment Information”of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information) and, in 2019, operations at three of our mills located in the southeastern U.S. were temporarily idled in advance of the landfall of a hurricane.

Business disruptions may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Fail to Anticipate Trends That Would Enable Us to Offer Products That Respond to Changing Customer Preferences

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to offer differentiated solutions, and we must continually develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with technological and regulatory developments and changing customer preferences. The services and products that we offer customers may not meet their needs as their business models evolve. Also, our customers may decide to decrease their use of our products, use alternative






materials for their product packaging or forego the packaging of certain products entirely. Regulatory developments can also significantly alter the market for our products. For example, a move to electronic distribution of disclaimers and other paperless regimes could adversely impact our healthcare inserts and labels businesses.

Consumer preferences for products and packaging formats are constantly changing based on, among other factors, cost, convenience, and health, environmental and social concerns and perceptions. For example, changing consumer dietary habits and preferences have slowed the sales growth for certain of the food and beverage products we package. Also, there is an increasing focus among consumers to ensure that products delivered through e-commerce are packaged efficiently. For instance, Amazon has begun requiring that all items sold through Amazon that are larger than a specified size be designed and certified as ready-to-ship. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected if we fail to anticipate trends that would enable us to offer products that respond to changing customer preferences.

Our Capital Expenditures May Not Achieve the Desired Outcomes or May Be Achieved at a Higher Cost than Anticipated

We regularly make capital expenditures and many of our capital projects are complex, costly and/or implemented over an extended period of time. For example, in fiscal 2019, we completed strategic capital projects at our Porto Feliz corrugated box plant in the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo, our Cottonton, Alabama and Covington, Virginia mills, and we continue to invest in strategic projects at our Florence, South Carolina and Tres Barras, Brazil mills. Our capital expenditures for these and other capital projects could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions and/or we may not achieve the desired benefits from the capital projects, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, disputes between us and contractors who are involved with implementing capital projects could lead to time-consuming and costly litigation.

We are Exposed to Risks Related to International Sales and Operations

We derived 18.2% of our net sales in fiscal 2019 from outside the U.S. through international operations, some of which were transacted in U.S. dollars. In addition, certain of our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. Our operating results and business prospects could be adversely affected by risks related to the countries outside the U.S. in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, China, Mexico and India, where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture, are exposed to varying degrees of economic, political and social instability. We are exposed to risks of operating in those countries, as well as others, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:

•the difficulties with and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;•unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;•repatriating cash from foreign countries to the U.S.;•political, economic and social instability;•import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;•responding to disruptions in existing trade agreements or increased trade tensions between countries or political and economic unions;•maintaining overseas subsidiaries and managing international operations;•obtaining regulatory approval for significant transactions;•government limitations on foreign ownership or takeovers, nationalizations of business or mandated price controls;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and•transfer pricing.

Any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our international operations and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.






We Cannot Operate Our Joint Ventures Solely For Our Benefit, Which Subjects Us to Risks

We have invested in joint ventures and may form additional joint ventures in the future. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:

•shared decision-making, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve impasses or potential disputes;•maintaining good relationships with our partners, which could limit our future growth potential;•conflict of interest issues if our partners have competing interests;•investment or operational goals that conflict with our partners’ goals, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities;•our partners’ ability to fund their share of required capital contributions or to otherwise fulfill their obligations as partners; and•obtaining consents from our partners for any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture.

We May Produce Faulty or Contaminated Products Due to Failures in Quality Control Measures and Systems

Our failure to produce products that meet safety and quality standards could result in adverse effects on consumer health, litigation exposure, loss of market share and adverse financial impacts, among other potential consequences, and we may incur substantial costs in taking appropriate corrective action (up to and including recalling products from end consumers) and to reimburse customers and/or end consumers for losses that they suffer as a result of these failures. Our actions or omissions with respect to product safety and quality could lead to regulatory investigations, enforcement actions and/or prosecutions, and result in adverse publicity, which may damage our reputation. Any of these results could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We provide guarantees or representations in certain of our contracts that our products are produced in accordance with customer specifications. If the product contained in packaging manufactured by us is faulty or contaminated, the manufacturer of the product may allege that the packaging we provided caused the fault or contamination, even if the packaging complies with contractual specifications. If our packaging fails to function properly or to preserve the integrity of its contents, we could face liability from our customers and third parties for bodily injury or other damages. These liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We Depend on Certain Large Customers

Our Corrugated Packaging and Consumer Packaging segments have large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect each segment’s sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In particular, because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results.

We are Subject to Cyber-Security Risks, Including Related to Customer, Employee, Vendor or Other Company Data

We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including reporting on our business and interacting with customers, vendors and employees. In addition, we collect and store data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we may become subject to system damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to any number of causes, including cyber-attacks, breaches, employee error or






malfeasance, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, service providers, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. These vulnerabilities may remain undetected for an extended period of time. We may face other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our information technology systems as part of our integration of acquired businesses and operations. We maintain contingency plans to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events; however, these events could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data, and depending on their nature and scope, could lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and exposure to liability. Such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions, including reputational damage and legal claims or proceedings, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Be Adversely Impacted By Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters

A significant number of our union employees are governed by CBAs. Expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation and others expire within one year. For example, we are negotiating a successor agreement to the original master agreement with the USW, which is scheduled to expire October 2020. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate them on favorable terms. We have experienced work stoppages in the past and may experience them in the future. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected. In addition, our businesses rely on vendors, suppliers and other third parties that have union employees. Strikes or work stoppages affecting these vendors, suppliers and other third parties could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Fail to Attract, Motivate, Train and Retain Qualified Personnel, Including Key Personnel

Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, train and retain employees with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. The increasing demand for qualified personnel makes it more difficult for us to attract and retain employees with requisite skill sets, particularly employees with specialized technical and trade experience. Changing demographics and labor work force trends also may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. If we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock may be adversely impacted.

We rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock may be adversely impacted. In particular, our failure to identify candidates with the leadership skills to manage our increasingly complex organization, and our failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key executives, could hinder our strategic planning and execution.

Financial Risks

We May Be Adversely Affected by Factors That Are Beyond Our Control, Such as U.S. and Worldwide Economic and Financial Market Conditions, and Social and Political Change

Our businesses may be adversely affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:

•general economic and business conditions;•changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar and the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar;•financial uncertainties in our major international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit”;






•social and political change impacting matters such as sustainability, environmental regulations and trade policies and agreements; or•government deficit reduction and other austerity measures in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which we operate.

For example, we may experience lower demand for our products and the products of our customers that utilize our products if economic conditions in the U.S. and globally (including in Europe, Brazil and Mexico) deteriorate and result in higher unemployment rates, lower family income, unfavorable currency exchange rates, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment or lower consumer spending. In addition, changes in trade policy, including renegotiating or potentially terminating, existing bilateral or multilateral agreements, as well as the imposition of tariffs, could impact demand for our products and the costs associated with certain of our capital investments. Macro-economic challenges may also lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates that may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. We are not able to predict with certainty economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions and social and political change.

The Level of Our Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Impair Our Ability to Operate Our Business

At September 30, 2019, we had $10.1 billion of debt outstanding. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:

•a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities, including acquisitions;•we may be limited in our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes;•our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates;•we may be limited in our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and•our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business may increase, and we may be unable to carry out important capital spending.



Certain of our variable rate debt uses the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. In addition, other regulators have suggested reforming or replacing other benchmark rates. The discontinuation, reform or replacement of LIBOR or any other benchmark rates may have an unpredictable impact on contractual mechanics in the credit markets or cause disruption to the broader financial markets. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential discontinuation, reform or replacement may negatively impact the cost of our variable rate debt.

We are subject to agreements that require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and covenants and may restrict us from, among other things, disposing of assets and incurring additional indebtedness. These restrictions may limit our flexibility to respond to changing market conditions and competitive pressures.

Credit Rating Downgrades Could Increase Our Borrowing Costs or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us

Some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from rating agencies. Our credit ratings could change based on, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. Credit ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies and may be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a “watch list” for a possible downgrade or assigned a “negative outlook”. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, could increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our






Common Stock. If a downgrade were to occur or a negative outlook were to be assigned, it could impact our ability to access the capital markets to raise debt and/or increase the associated costs. In addition, while our credit ratings are important to us, we may take actions and otherwise operate our business in a manner that adversely affects our credit ratings.

We sell short-term receivables from certain customer trade accounts on a revolving basis. Any downgrade of the credit rating or deterioration of the financial condition of these customers may make it more costly or difficult for us to engage in these activities, which could adversely affect our cash flows and liquidity.

We Have a Significant Amount of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and a Write-Down Would Adversely Impact Our Operating Results and Shareholders’ Equity

At September 30, 2019, the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets was $11.3 billion. We review the carrying value of our goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when impairment indicators exist. The impairment test requires us to analyze a number of factors and make estimates that require judgment. In fiscal 2019, we identified our Consumer Packaging and Victory Packaging reporting units as having fair values that exceeded their carrying values by less than 10%. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, changes in our business strategy and external market conditions, among other factors, could require us to record an impairment charge for goodwill, which could lead to decreased assets and reduced net income. If a significant write down were required, the charge could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and shareholders’ equity, and could impact the trading price of our Common Stock. See “Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Our Pension Plans Will Likely Require Additional Cash Contributions

We expect to continue to make contributions to our pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet the requirements of the Pension Act and other regulations. At September 30, 2019, our pensions were underfunded by approximately $0.1 billion. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. Fluctuations in the market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension plan costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. These changes, along with future turmoil in financial and capital markets, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We May Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and May Not Realize Expected Benefits from Restructuring

We have previously restructured portions of our operations and likely will engage in future restructuring initiatives. Because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including changes in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers, the selling prices for our products or our manufacturing costs, we may not be able to predict with certainty the appropriate time to undertake restructurings. The cash and non-cash costs associated with these activities vary depending on the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of investment. Restructuring activities may divert the attention of management, disrupt our operations and fail to achieve the intended cost and operations benefits.

We May Utilize Our Cash Flow or Incur Additional Indebtedness to Satisfy Certain Payment Obligations Related to, or Otherwise Increase our Investment in, Grupo Gondi

In connection with our investment in the joint venture with Grupo Gondi, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we and certain shareholders of Grupo Gondi agreed to future put and call options with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by each party. We own 32.3% of the joint venture. Pursuant to the option agreement, our joint venture partners may exercise a right on April 1, 2020 to sell us up to 24% of the equity interest in Grupo Gondi at fair market value and, between October 1, 2020 and April 1, 2021, we may exercise a right to purchase an additional 18.7% equity interest in Grupo Gondi from our joint venture partners at a predetermined purchase price. If we exercise our right to purchase the additional 18.7% equity interest, our partners may elect to






sell us their remaining interest at fair market value at that time, or a portion thereof in the future in accordance with the terms of the option agreement. In addition, in the event that we do not exercise our right to purchase the additional 18.7% equity interest, our joint venture partners may call our 32.3% equity interest at a predetermined price between October 1, 2021 and April 1, 2022. These arrangements, or other arrangements pursuant to which we increase our ownership in Grupo Gondi, may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment or investment obligations, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. Also, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities in order to satisfy our payment or investment obligations.

We May Incur Withdrawal Liability and/or Increased Funding Requirements in Connection with MEPPs

We participate in several MEPPs. Our contributions to any particular MEPP may increase based on the declining funded status of a MEPP and legal requirements, such as those of the Pension Act, which require substantially underfunded MEPPs to implement a funding improvement plan (“FIP”) or a rehabilitation plan (“RP”) to improve their funded status. The funded status of a MEPP may be impacted by, among other items, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these plans, the inability or failure of companies withdrawing from the plan to pay their withdrawal liability, low interest rates, changes in actuarial assumptions and/or lower than expected returns on pension fund assets.

We believe that certain of the MEPPs in which we participate or have participated, including PIUMPF, have material unfunded vested benefits. In fiscal 2018, we submitted formal notification to withdraw from PIUMPF and the Central Sates, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund (“Central States”), and recorded aggregate withdrawal liabilities of $184.2 million (nearly all of which was for PIUMPF), which includes an estimate of our portion of PIUMPF’s accumulated funding deficiency. We may withdraw from other MEPPs in the future.

In September 2019, we received a demand from PIUMPF asserting that we owe $170.3 million on an undiscounted basis (approximately $0.7 million per month for the next 20 years) with respect to our withdrawal liability. The demand did not address any assertion of liability for PIUMPF’s accumulated funding deficiency. We expect to begin making monthly payments for these withdrawal liabilities in fiscal 2020.

The impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. See “Note 5. Retirement Plans — Multiemployer Plans” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including a summary of the demand letters we received from PIUMPF.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

We are Subject to a Wide Variety of Laws, Regulations and Other Requirements That are Subject to Change and May Impose Substantial Compliance Costs

We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and other requirements, including those relating to the environment, product safety, competition, corruption, occupational health and safety, labor and employment, data privacy, tax and health care. These laws, regulations and other requirements may change or be applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our equipment and/or operations, subject us to enforcement risk, expose us to reputational harm or impose on or require us to incur additional costs, including substantial compliance costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.

We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our environmental expenditures include those related to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, including situations where we have been identified as a PRP. Because environmental, health and safety regulations are constantly evolving, we will continue to incur costs to maintain compliance with those laws and our compliance costs could increase materially. Future compliance with existing and new laws and requirements may disrupt our business operations and require significant expenditures, and our existing reserves for specific matters may not be adequate to cover future costs. In particular, our manufacturing operations consume significant amounts of energy, and we may in the future incur additional or increased capital, operating and other expenditures from changes due to new or increased climate-related and other environmental regulations. We could also incur substantial liabilities,






including fines or sanctions, enforcement actions, natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury under environmental and common laws.

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and local anti-bribery laws, including those in Brazil, China, Mexico, India and the United Kingdom (where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture), prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of influencing official decisions. Our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to have been committed by our employees, agents or vendors. Any such violations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation.

We are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. Additionally, changing privacy laws in the United States (including the California Consumer Privacy Act, which will become effective in January 2020), Europe (where the General Data Protection Regulation became effective in 2018) and elsewhere have created new individual privacy rights, imposed increased obligations on companies handling personal data and increased potential exposure to fines and penalties.

