Item 1.Business

Introduction

O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively “we”, “O’Reilly” or the “Company”, is
one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customers and professional service providers.
O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. was incorporated in 1957 as a corporation and was founded by Charles F. O’Reilly and his son, Charles H. “Chub” O’Reilly, Sr. and initially operated from a single store in Springfield, Missouri. The
Company’s common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ORLY” since April 22, 1993.

On
December 29, 2010, we completed a corporate reorganization creating a holding company structure (the “Reorganization”). The Reorganization was implemented through an agreement and plan of merger under Section 351.448 of The
General Corporation Law of the State of Missouri, which did not require a vote of the shareholders. As a result of the Reorganization, the previous parent company and registrant, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., was renamed O’Reilly Automotive
Stores, Inc. (“Old O’Reilly”) and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of the new parent company and registrant, which was renamed O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. In the Reorganization, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of
Old O’Reilly was converted into a share of common stock of the Company, with the same designations, rights, qualifications, powers, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions, and without any action being required on the part of
holders of shares of Old O’Reilly common stock or any exchange of stock certificates. Shares of the Company’s common stock were substituted for the shares of common stock of Old O’Reilly listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and
continue to trade under the same “ORLY” symbol but with a new CUSIP Number (67103H 107).

At December 31, 2010, we operated
3,570 stores in 38 states. Our stores carry an extensive product line, including the products bulleted below:



•new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, such as alternators, starters, fuel pumps, water pumps, brake system components, batteries, belts, hoses,
chassis parts and engine parts;



•maintenance items, such as oil, antifreeze, fluids, filters, wiper blades, lighting, engine additives and appearance products; and



•accessories, such as floor mats, seat covers and truck accessories.

Many of our stores offer enhanced services and programs to our customers, including those bulleted below:



•used oil and battery recycling



•battery diagnostic testing



•electrical and module testing



•loaner tool program



•drum and rotor resurfacing



•custom hydraulic hoses



•professional paint shop mixing and related materials



•machine shops

On
July 11, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of CSK Auto Corporation (“CSK”), which was one of the largest specialty retailers of auto parts and accessories in the Western United States and one of the largest such retailers in
the United States, based on







store count at the date of acquisition. To fund the transaction, we entered into a Credit Agreement (“ABL Credit Agreement”) on the acquisition date for a $1.2 billion asset-based
revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) arranged by Bank of America, N.A. (“BA”), which we used to refinance debt, fund the cash portion of the acquisition, pay for other transaction-related expenses and provide
liquidity for the combined company going forward. The results of CSK’s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.

See “Risk Factors” beginning on page 14 for a description of certain risks relevant to our business. These risk factors include, among others, risks related to our growth strategy, the
integration of CSK, increased debt levels, our acquisition strategies, competition in the automotive aftermarket business, our dependence upon key and other personnel, future growth assurance, our sensitivity to regional economic and weather
conditions, legal proceedings and related matters arising from CSK, the effect of sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results, the volatility of the market price of our common
stock, our relationships with key vendors and availability of key products, complications in our DCs, deteriorating economic conditions, downgrade in credit rating and environmental legislation and regulations.

Our Business

Our goal is to continue to
achieve growth in sales and profitability by capitalizing on our competitive advantages and executing our growth strategy. We remain confident in our ability to continue to gain market share in our existing markets and grow our business in new
markets by focusing on our dual market strategy and core O’Reilly values of customer service and expense control. Our intent is to be the dominant auto parts provider in all the markets we serve by providing superior customer service and
significant value to both professional service providers and DIY customers.

Competitive Advantages

Proven Ability to Execute a Dual Market Strategy- We have an established track record of effectively serving, at a high level, both DIY customers
and professional service providers. We believe our ability to execute a dual market strategy is a competitive advantage. The execution of this strategy enables us to better compete by targeting a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket
parts, by capitalizing on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure, by operating profitably in both large markets and less densely populated geographic areas that typically attract fewer competitors, as well as by enhancing service levels
offered to DIY customers through the offering of a broad inventory and the extensive product knowledge required by professional service providers.

We have been committed to our dual market strategy for over 30 years. In 2010, we derived approximately 62% of our sales from our DIY customers and approximately 38% of our sales from our professional
service provider customers. We have historically derived approximately 50% of our sales from both our DIY and professional service provider customers, and as we continue to grow our commercial business in the acquired CSK stores, we would expect our
DIY and professional service provider sales mix to approximate historical averages. As a result of our historical success of executing our dual market strategy and our over 450 full-time sales staff dedicated solely to calling upon and servicing the
professional service provider, we believe we will continue to increase our sales to professional service providers and will continue to have a competitive advantage over our retail competitors who derive a high concentration of their sales from the
DIY market. We have a tremendous opportunity to build on the strong retail base at the acquired CSK stores by growing the commercial business through the implementation of our dual market strategy and capitalizing on our other competitive
advantages.







Superior Customer Service- We seek to attract new DIY and professional service provider customers
and to retain existing customers by offering superior customer service, the key elements of which are bulleted below:



•superior in-store service through highly-motivated, technically-proficient store personnel (“Professional Parts People”) using an advanced
point-of-sale system;



•an extensive selection and availability of products;



•attractive stores in convenient locations; and



•competitive pricing, supported by a good, better, best product assortment designed to meet all of our customers’ quality and value preferences.

Technically Proficient Professional Parts People- Our highly proficient Professional Parts People provide us with a
significant competitive advantage, particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional Parts People to undergo extensive and ongoing training and to be technically knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts,
in order to better serve the technically-oriented professional service providers with whom they interact on a daily basis. Such technical proficiency also enhances the customer service we provide to our DIY customers who value the expert assistance
provided by our Professional Parts People.

Strategic Distribution Systems- We believe our commitment to a robust, regional DC network
provides for superior replenishment and access to hard-to-find parts and enables us to optimize product availability and inventory levels throughout our store network. Our inventory management and distribution systems electronically link each of our
stores to one or more DCs, providing for efficient inventory control and management. Our distribution system provides each of our stores with same-day or overnight access to an average of 118,000 stock keeping units (“SKUs”), many of which
are hard to find items not typically stocked by other auto parts retailers. We believe this timely access to a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage in satisfying customer demand and generating repeat business.

We currently operate 23 DCs, four of which opened in 2010. As these DCs opened, the surrounding CSK stores were converted to the O’Reilly systems
and began receiving same-day or overnight access to O’Reilly’s broad range of hard part product offerings.

Experienced
Management Team- Our management team has demonstrated the consistent ability to successfully execute our business plan, including the identification and integration of strategic acquisitions. We have experienced eighteen consecutive years of
record revenues and earnings and positive comparable store sales results since becoming a public company in April of 1993. We have a strong senior management team comprised of 146 professionals who average 18 years of service. In addition, our 260
corporate managers average 15 years of service and our 349 district managers average 13 years of service.

Growth Strategy

Aggressively Open New Stores- We intend to continue to open new stores to achieve greater penetration in existing markets and
to expand into new, contiguous markets. We plan to open approximately 170 net new stores in 2011, and the sites for these new stores have been identified. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in locating suitable sites for
construction of new stores or identifying suitable acquisition targets for conversion to O’Reilly stores. We typically open new stores either by (i) constructing a new facility or renovating an existing one on property we purchase or lease
and stocking the new store with fixtures and inventory, (ii) acquiring an independently owned auto parts store, typically by the purchase of substantially all of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such store, or
(iii) purchasing multi-store chains. New store sites are strategically located in clusters within geographic areas that complement our distribution network in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising and distribution.
Other key factors we consider in the site selection process include population density and growth patterns, demographic lifestyle segmentation, age and per capita income, vehicle traffic counts, number and type of existing automotive repair
facilities, competing auto parts stores within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such competitors.

We target both
small and large markets for expansion of our store network. While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, aggressive competition in the more densely populated markets, we believe we have competed effectively, and are well positioned to
continue to compete effectively, in such markets and achieve our goal of continued sales/profit growth within these markets. We also believe that with our dual market strategy, we are better able to operate stores in less densely populated areas,
which would not otherwise support a national chain store selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. Consequently, we continue to pursue opening new stores in less densely populated market areas as part of our growth strategy.

Profitable same store sales growth is also an important part of our growth strategy. To achieve improved sales and profitability at existing
O’Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive pricing is an essential component of successful growth in the automotive aftermarket business, it is customer
satisfaction, whether of the DIY consumer or professional service provider, resulting from superior customer service that generates increased sales and profitability.







Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions- Although the automotive aftermarket industry is still
highly fragmented, we believe the ability of national retail chains, such as ourselves, to operate more efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will result in continued industry consolidation. Thus, our intention is to
continue to selectively pursue acquisition targets that will strengthen our position as a leading automotive aftermarket parts supplier.

Continually Enhance Store Design and Location- Our current prototype store design features enhancements such as optimized square footage, higher
ceilings, more convenient interior store layouts, improved in-store signage, brighter lighting, increased parking availability and dedicated counters to serve professional service providers, each designed to increase sales and operating efficiencies
and enhance customer service. We continually update the location and condition of our store network through systematic renovation and relocation of our existing stores to enhance store performance. We believe that our ability to consistently achieve
growth in same store sales is due in part to our commitment to maintaining an attractive store network, which is strategically located to best serve our customers.

Grow Professional Relationships with Professional Service Providers in the Western United States- In order to implement our proven dual market strategy throughout the acquired CSK store network
and grow our share of the professional service provider market in those areas, we have added four additional DCs to the Western markets since the CSK acquisition. Our strategically located DCs provide converted CSK stores with same-day or overnight
delivery access to an average of 118,000 SKUs and will give these stores an important tool to provide industry-leading customer service to the professional service provider, as well as the DIY customer. In addition, our Professional Parts People
receive ongoing training on our product lines, customer service and O’Reilly policies and procedures aimed at building and improving relationships with professional service providers.

Management Structure

Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and one or
more assistant managers, in addition to parts specialists, retail and/or installer service specialists and other positions required to meet the specific needs of each store. Each of our 349 district managers has general supervisory responsibility
for an average of 10 stores, which provides our stores with the appropriate amount of operational support.

District managers complete a
comprehensive training program to ensure each has a thorough understanding of customer service, leadership, inventory management and store profitability, as well as all other sales and operational aspects of our business model. Store managers are
also required to complete a structured training program that is specific to their position, including attending a 40-hour manager development program at the corporate headquarters in Springfield, Missouri. District managers and store managers also
receive continuous training through on-line assignments, field workshops and regional meetings.

We provide financial incentives to our
district managers and all store team members through incentive compensation programs. Under our incentive compensation programs, base salary is augmented by incentive compensation based upon their individual and/or store’s sales and
profitability. In addition, each of our district and store managers participates in the Company’s stock option program. We believe that our incentive compensation programs significantly increase the motivation and overall performance of our
district and store team members and enhance our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.

Most of our current
senior management, district managers and store managers were promoted to their positions from within the Company. Our senior management team averages 18 years of service, corporate management team averages 15 years of service and our district
management team has an average length of service of 13 years.

Team Members

As of January 31, 2011, we employed 47,142 total team members (31,070 full-time team members and 16,072 part-time team members), of whom 39,556 were
employed at our stores, 6,053 were employed at our DCs and 1,533 were employed at our corporate and regional offices. A union represents 51 stores (435 team members) in the Greater Bay Area in California, and has for many years. In addition,
approximately 66 team members who drive over-the-road trucks in two of our DCs have voted in favor of becoming represented by labor unions; however, no collective bargaining agreements have been negotiated. Except for these team members, our team
members are not represented by labor unions. Our tradition of 54 years has been to treat all of our team members with honesty and respect and to commit significant resources to instill in them our “Live Green” Culture, which emphasizes the
importance of every team member’s contribution to the success of O’Reilly. This focus on professionalism and fairness has created an industry-leading team and we consider our relations with our team members to be excellent.

Inflation and Seasonality

We
have been successful, in many cases, in reducing the effects of merchandise cost increases principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective forward buying. To
the extent our acquisition cost increases due to base commodity price increases industry-wide, we have typically been able to pass along these increased costs through higher retail prices for the affected products. As a result, we do not believe our
operations have been materially, adversely affected by inflation.







To some extent, our business is seasonal primarily as a result of the impact of weather conditions on
customer buying patterns. Store sales and profits have historically been higher in the second and third quarters (April through September) than in the first and fourth quarters (October through March) of the year.

Regulations

We are subject to
various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to our business, including those related to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, the recycling of batteries and used lubricants, and the ownership and
operation of real property.

As part of our operations, we handle hazardous materials in the ordinary course of business and our customers may
bring hazardous materials onto our property in connection with, for example, our oil and battery recycling programs. We currently provide a recycling program for batteries and the collection of used lubricants at certain stores of ours as a service
to our customers pursuant to agreements with third-party vendors. The batteries and used lubricants are collected by our associates, deposited into vendor-supplied containers and pallets, and then disposed of by the third-party vendors. In general,
our agreements with such vendors contain provisions that are designed to limit our potential liability under applicable environmental regulations for any damage or contamination, which may be caused by the batteries and lubricants to off-site
properties (including as a result of waste disposal) and to our properties, when caused by the vendor.

Compliance with any such laws and
regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date. We cannot give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses in the future in order to comply with any such law or regulation.

Available Information

Our
Internet address is www.oreillyauto.com. Interested readers can access, free of charge, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the Securities and Exchange Commission website atwww.sec.govand searching with our ticker symbol “ORLY”. Such reports
are generally available the day they are filed. Upon request, the Company will furnish interested readers a paper copy of such reports free of charge by contacting Thomas McFall, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, at
233 South Patterson, Springfield, Missouri, 65802.







Store Operations

Store Network

Store Locations- As a result of our dual market strategy, we
are able to profitably operate in both large, densely populated markets and small, less densely populated areas that would not otherwise support a national chain selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. The following table sets forth
the geographic distribution of our stores:



December 31, 20092010 Net NewStoresDecember 31, 2010StateStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountCumulative% of TotalStoreCountTexas52115.2%2416.1%54515.3%15.3%California47713.9%(4)(2.7%)47313.3%28.6%Missouri1775.2%32.0%1805.0%33.6%Georgia1434.2%96.0%1524.3%37.9%Washington1394.1%——1393.9%41.8%Tennessee1293.8%64.0%1353.8%45.6%Arizona1293.8%——1293.6%49.2%Illinois1253.7%32.0%1283.6%52.8%Oklahoma1093.2%10.7%1103.1%55.9%Alabama1053.1%32.0%1083.0%58.9%Minnesota1002.9%42.7%1042.9%61.8%Arkansas962.8%10.7%972.7%64.5%North Carolina772.3%2013.4%972.7%67.2%Colorado872.5%——872.4%69.6%Louisiana802.3%42.7%842.4%72.0%Indiana742.2%96.0%832.3%74.3%Ohio631.8%1610.7%792.2%76.5%Michigan672.0%96.0%762.1%78.6%Mississippi712.1%——712.0%80.6%Wisconsin551.6%128.1%671.9%82.5%Iowa651.9%10.7%661.8%84.3%Kansas651.9%10.7%661.8%86.1%South Carolina501.5%85.4%581.6%87.7%Kentucky541.6%32.0%571.6%89.3%Utah541.6%——541.5%90.8%Nevada451.3%——451.3%92.1%Florida320.9%106.7%421.2%93.3%Oregon421.2%——421.2%94.5%New Mexico381.1%(1)(0.7%)371.0%95.5%Idaho300.9%10.7%310.9%96.4%Nebraska290.8%——290.8%97.2%Montana230.7%——230.6%97.8%Wyoming160.5%——160.5%98.3%Virginia90.1%53.4%140.4%98.7%North Dakota120.4%10.7%130.4%99.1%Alaska110.3%——110.3%99.4%Hawaii110.3%——110.3%99.7%South Dakota110.3%——110.3%100.0%Total3,421100%149100%3,570100%







Our stores, on average, carry approximately 22,000 SKUs and average approximately 7,100 total square feet in
size. At December 31, 2010, we had a total of approximately 25.3 million square feet in our 3,570 stores. Our stores are served primarily by the nearest DC, which averages 118,000 SKUs, but also have same-day access to the broad selection
of inventory available at one of our 184 Master Inventory Stores, which on average carry approximately 39,000 SKUs and average approximately 10,000 square feet in size. In addition to serving DIY and professional service provider customers in their
markets, Master Inventory Stores also provide our other stores within the surrounding area access to a greater selection of SKUs on a same-day basis.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores” generating their own traffic rather than relying on traffic created by the presence of other stores in the immediate vicinity. Consequently,
most of our stores are freestanding buildings and prominent end caps situated on or near major traffic thoroughfares, and offer ample parking, easy customer access and are generally located in close proximity to our professional service provider
customers.

Store Layout- We utilize a computer-assisted “plan-o-grammed” store layout system to provide a uniform and
consistent merchandise presentation; however, each store’s hard-parts inventory assortment is customized to meet the specific needs of a particular market area. Front room merchandise is arranged to provide easy customer access, maximum selling
space and to prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to customers. To ensure the best customer experience possible, we have selectively implemented bilingual in-store signage based on the demographics in each store’s
geographic area. Aisle displays and end caps are used to feature high-demand or seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

Store Automation- To enhance store-level operations, customer service and reliability, we use Linux servers and IBM I-Series computer systems in
our stores. These systems are linked with the I-Series computers located in each of our DCs. Our point-of-sale terminals provide immediate access to our electronic catalog to graphically display parts and pricing information by make, model and year
of vehicle and use bar code scanning technology to price our merchandise. This system speeds transaction times, reduces the customer’s checkout time, ensures accuracy and provides enhanced customer service. Moreover, our store automation
systems capture detailed sales information which assists in store management, strategic planning, inventory control and distribution efficiency.

New Store Site Selection- In selecting sites for new stores, we seek to strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to achieve economies of scale in management,
advertising and distribution. Other key factors we consider in the site selection process are bulleted below:



•population density;



•demographics including age, ethnicity and per capita income;



•market economic strength, retail draw and growth patterns;



•number of registered vehicles;



•the number, type and sales potential of existing automotive repair facilities;



•the number of auto parts stores and other competitors within a predetermined radius and the operational strength of such competitors; and



•physical location, size, economics and presentation of the site.

When entering new, more densely populated markets, we generally seek to initially open several stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect of initial promotional programs and
achieve economies of scale. After opening this initial cluster of new stores, we seek to begin penetrating the less densely populated surrounding areas. This strategy enables us to achieve additional distribution and advertising efficiencies in each
market.

Products and Purchasing

Our stores offer DIY and professional service provider customers a wide selection of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported automobiles, vans and trucks. We do not sell tires or
perform automotive repairs or installations. Our merchandise generally consists of nationally recognized, well-advertised, premium name brand products such as AC Delco, Armor All, Bosch, BWD, Cardone, Castrol, Gates Rubber, Monroe, Moog, Pennzoil,
Prestone, Quaker State, STP, Turtle Wax, Valvoline, Wagner, and Wix. In addition to name brand products, our stores carry a wide variety of high-quality private label products under our BestTest®, BrakeBest®, Master Pro®,
Micro-Gard®, Murray and Omnispark®, O’Reilly Auto Parts®, Power Torque®, Super Start®, and Ultima® proprietary name brands. Our private label products are produced by nationally recognized manufacturers and meet or
exceed original equipment manufacturer specifications and provide a great combination of quality and value – a characteristic important to our DIY customers. We have added O’Reilly branded chemicals and commodities as well as proprietary
private label products to all acquired CSK stores. These stores have also undergone hard-part resets, which significantly increased their hard-part SKU offering, giving our customers in all stores a good, better, and best product offering.

We purchase automotive products in substantial quantities from over 500 vendors, the five largest of which accounted for approximately 22% of
our total purchases in 2010. Our largest vendor in 2010 accounted for approximately seven percent of our total purchases and the next four largest vendors each accounted for approximately three to five percent of such purchases. We have no







long-term contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor have we experienced difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative supply sources for automotive parts. We believe that
alternative supply sources exist at substantially similar costs, for substantially all of the automotive products that we sell. It is our policy to take advantage of payment and seasonal purchasing discounts offered by our vendors and to utilize
extended dating terms available from vendors. During 2010, we entered into various programs and arrangements with certain vendors that provided for extended dating and payment terms for inventory purchases. As a whole, we consider our relationships
with our vendors to be very good.

Pricing

We believe that a competitive pricing policy is essential to successfully operate in the automotive aftermarket business. Product pricing is generally established to compete with the pricing policies of
competitors in the market area served by each store. Most automotive products that we sell are priced based upon a combination of competitor price comparisons and internal gross margin targets and are generally sold at a discount to the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price with additional savings offered through volume discounts and special promotional pricing. Consistent with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price on any in-stock product
of the same or comparable quality offered by our competitors in the same market area.

We have repositioned the product offering and pricing
in all CSK stores to an every-day low price strategy to ensure we are competitive in every market. We believe competitive pricing is needed to grow our market share and maintain a customer’s repeat business, and we believe strongly that this
strategy is more sustainable, requires less promotional spending and will produce better results than CSK’s historical promotional-based, high-low pricing strategy.

Professional Parts People

We believe our highly trained team of Professional Parts
People is essential in providing superior customer service to both DIY and professional service provider customers. Because a significant portion of our business is from professional service providers, our Professional Parts People are required to
be technically proficient in automotive products. In addition, we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance from a Professional Parts Person, particularly when purchasing hard parts. The ability of our Professional Parts People
to provide such assistance to the DIY customer creates a favorable impression and is a significant factor in generating repeat DIY business.

We screen prospective team members to identify highly motivated individuals who either have experience with automotive parts or repairs, or automotive
aptitude. New store team members go through a comprehensive orientation about the culture of our company as well as the requirements for their specific job position. Additionally, during their first year of employment, our parts specialists go
through extensive automotive systems and product knowledge training to ensure they are able to provide the highest level of service to our customers. Once all of the required training has been satisfied, our parts specialists become eligible to take
the O’Reilly Certified Parts Professional test. Passing the O’Reilly test helps prepare them to become certified by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE).

All of our stores have the ability to service professional service provider customers. For this reason, select team members in each store complete extensive sales call training with their regional field
sales manager. Afterward, these team members spend one day per week calling on existing and potential professional service provider customers. Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities participates in quarterly advanced
training programs for sales and business development.

Customer Service

We seek to provide our customers with an efficient and pleasant in-store experience by maintaining attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide selection of automotive products. We believe that
the satisfaction of DIY and professional service provider customers is substantially dependent upon our ability to provide, in a timely fashion, the specific automotive products requested. Accordingly, each O’Reilly store carries a broad
selection of automotive products designed to cover a wide range of vehicle applications. We continuously refine the inventory levels and assortments carried in our stores, based in large part on the sales movement tracked by our inventory control
system, market vehicle registration data, failure rates and management’s assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.

Marketing

Marketing to the
DIY Customer- We use an integrated marketing program, which includes television, radio, direct mail and newspaper distribution, in-store and online promotions, and sports and event sponsorships, to aggressively attract DIY customers. The
marketing strategy we employ is highly effective and has led to an increase in awareness of the O’Reilly brand across our geographic footprint. We utilize a combination of brand and product/price messaging to drive retail traffic and purchases,
which frequently coincide with key sales events. During 2010, we continued to co-brand all forms of advertising in the markets containing acquired CSK stores. This manner of advertising and marketing is essential to not only build awareness of the
O’Reilly brand in those markets,







but to also allow for a smoother transition throughout the rebranding process. Store signage in substantially all acquired CSK stores is expected to be changed to the O’Reilly Brand by the
end of the first quarter of 2011, and we expect to end the co-branding of all forms of advertising during 2011.

To stimulate sales among race
enthusiasts, who we believe individually spend more on automotive products than the general public, during 2010 we sponsored multiple nationally-televised races and over 1,500 grassroots, local, and regional motorsports events throughout 38 states.
We maintained our partnership with the National Association for Stock Car Racing (“NASCAR”) as the Official Auto Parts Store of NASCAR and were the title sponsor of five National Hot Rod Association (“NHRA”) races from Pomona,
California to Charlotte, North Carolina.

During the fall and winter months, we strategically sponsor National Collegiate Athletic Association
(“NCAA”) football and basketball and the National Football League (“NFL”). Our relationships with over 70 NCAA teams and tournaments have resulted in prominently-displayed O’Reilly logos on TV-visible scoring table signs
throughout the season. In addition, O’Reilly Auto Parts radio advertising can be heard during more than 350 NFL games due to our sponsorship of nearly 20 teams.

Through an expanded use of Spanish language radio, print, and outdoor, as well as sponsorships of over 45 local and regional festivals and events, we demonstrated our commitment to increasing marketing
efforts that are targeted toward the Hispanic auto parts consumer.

In 2010, we continued our dedicated problem/solution communication
strategy, which encourages vehicle owners to perform regular maintenance as a way to save money and protect their automotive investment over the long term. This highly relevant message resonates with consumers and establishes O’Reilly as their
source for the parts they need and excellent customer service.

Marketing to the Professional Service Provider- We have over 450
full-time O’Reilly sales representatives strategically located across our market areas. Each sales representative is dedicated solely to calling upon, selling to and servicing our professional service provider customers. Targeted marketing
materials such as flyers, quick reference guides and catalogs are produced and distributed on a regular basis to professional service providers, paint and body shops and fleet customers. Our industry leading First Call program enables our sales
representatives, district managers, and store managers to provide excellent customer service to each of our professional service provider accounts by providing the products and services bulleted below:



•broad selection of merchandise at competitive prices;



•dedicated Installer Service Specialists in our stores;



•multiple deliveries from our stores per day;



•same-day or overnight access to an average of 118,000 SKUs through five-night-a-week store inventory replenishments;



•a separate service counter and phone line in our stores dedicated exclusively to service professional service providers;



•trade credit for qualified accounts;



•First Call Online, a dedicated Internet based catalog and ordering system designed to connect professional service providers directly to our inventory
system;



•training and seminars covering topics of interest, such as technical updates, safety and general business management;



•access to a comprehensive inventory of products and equipment needed to operate and maintain their shop; and



•the Certified Auto Repair Center Program, a program that provides professional service providers with business tools they can utilize to profitably
grow and market their shops.

Marketing to the Independently Owned Parts Store- Along with the daily operation and
management of the DCs and the distribution of automotive products to our stores, Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Ozark”), also sells automotive products directly to independently owned parts stores
(“jobber stores”) throughout our trade areas. These jobber stores are generally located in areas not directly serviced by an O’Reilly store. Ozark administers a dedicated and distinct marketing program specifically targeted to jobber
stores.

Approximately 185 jobber stores currently purchase automotive products from Ozark and participate in our Parts City Auto Parts
program, our proprietary jobber service program. As a participant in these programs, a jobber store, which meets certain financial and operational standards, is permitted to indicate its Parts City Auto Parts membership through the display of the
respective logo that is owned by Ozark. In return for a commitment to purchase automotive products from Ozark, we provide computer software for business management, competitive pricing, advertising, marketing and sales assistance to Parts City Auto
Parts affiliate stores.

Competition

We compete in both the DIY and professional service provider portions of the automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with the stores bulleted below:



•national retail and wholesale automotive parts chains (such as AutoZone, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, NAPA, CARQUEST and the Pep Boys - Manny, Moe and
Jack, Inc.);







•regional retail and wholesale automotive parts chains;



•independently owned parts stores;



•wholesalers or jobber stores (some of which are associated with national automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA, CARQUEST, Bumper
to Bumper and Auto Value);



•automobile dealers; and



•mass merchandisers that carry automotive replacement parts, maintenance items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

We compete on the basis of customer service, which includes merchandise selection and availability, price, helpfulness of
store personnel, store layout and convenient and accessible store locations.

Distribution System Support

We currently operate 23 DCs comprised of approximately 8.5 million operating square feet (see the “Properties” table in Item 2 of this
Form 10-K for a detailed listing of DC operating square footages). Our DCs are equipped with highly automated material handling equipment, which efficiently expedite the movement of our products from the shelves to the loading areas for shipment to
each of our stores on a nightly basis. The DCs utilize technology to electronically receive orders from computers located in each of our stores. In addition to the bar code system employed in our stores, each of our stores is connected through
secured data transmission technology to our DCs and corporate headquarters.

We believe that our distribution system provides industry-leading
parts availability and store in-stock positions while lowering our inventory carrying costs and controlling inventory. Moreover, we believe that our ongoing, significant capital investments made to expand the network of DCs allows us to efficiently
service new stores that are planned to open in contiguous market areas as well as servicing our existing store network. Our DC expansion strategy complements our new store opening strategy by supporting newly established clusters of stores located
in the regions surrounding each DC. We currently have a total growth capacity of approximately 650 stores in our distribution network.

As part of our continuing efforts to enhance our distribution network in 2011 we plan to:



•continue to implement a voice picking technology in additional DCs;



•evaluate routing software to further enhance logistics efficiencies;



•begin to implement labor management software to improve DC productivity and overall operating efficiency;



•develop further automated paperless picking processes;



•improve proof of delivery systems to further increase the accuracy of product movement to our stores;



•continue to define and implement best practice procedures in all DCs; and



•make proven, ROI based capital enhancements to material handling equipment in DCs including conveyor systems, picking modules and lift equipment.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following paragraphs discuss information about executive officers of the Company who are not also directors:

Gregory L. Henslee, age 50, Chief Executive Officer and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team member for 26 years. Mr. Henslee’s O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist,
and during his first five years he served in several positions in retail store operations, including district manager. From there he advanced to Computer Operations Manager, and over the next 15 years, he served as Director of Computer
Operations/Loss Prevention, Vice President of Store Operations and as Senior Vice President. In 1999, he became President of Merchandise, Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention, and has been in his current positions of Chief Executive
Officer and Co-President since 2005.

Ted F. Wise, age 60, Chief Operating Officer and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team
member for 40 years. Mr. Wise’s primary areas of responsibility are Sales, Operations and Real Estate. He began his O’Reilly career in sales in 1970, was promoted to store manager in 1973 and became our first district manager in 1977.
He continued his progression with O’Reilly as Operations Manager, Vice President, Senior Vice President of Operations and Sales, and Executive Vice President. He has been President of Sales, Operations and Real Estate since 1999, and in his
current positions of Chief Operating Officer and Co-President since 2005.

Thomas G. McFall, age 40, Executive Vice President of
Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has been an O’Reilly team member since 2006 and has held his position as Chief Financial Officer during this time. Mr. McFall’s primary areas of responsibility are Finance, Accounting, Risk
Management and Human Resources. Prior to joining O’Reilly, Mr. McFall held the position of Chief Financial Officer – Midwest Operation for CSK, following CSK’s acquisition of Murray’s Discount Auto Stores
(“Murray’s”). Mr.







McFall served Murray’s for eight years as Controller, Vice President of Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, with direct responsibility for finance and accounting, distribution and
logistics operations. Prior to joining Murray’s, Mr. McFall was an Audit Manager with Ernst & Young, LLP in Detroit, Michigan.

Gregory D. Johnson, age 45, Senior Vice President of Distribution Operations, has been an O’Reilly team member for 28 years. Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is
Distribution and Logistics. He began his O’Reilly career as a part-time stocker in the Nashville DC in 1982 and advanced with O’Reilly as Retail Systems Manager, WMS Systems Development Manager, Director of Distribution and Vice President
of Distribution. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since September 2007.

Randy Johnson, age 55, Senior Vice
President of Inventory Management, has been an O’Reilly team member for 37 years. Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is Inventory Management, Purchasing, Logistics, and Store Design. He began his career in a DC in 1973,
working in the stocking, shipping and will call counter departments, and was promoted to customer service manager in 1976. He continued to progress with the development of the inventory control department as Inventory Control Manager and Vice
President of Store Inventory Management. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President of Inventory Management since October 2010.

Jeff M. Shaw, age 48, Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations, has been an O’Reilly team member for 22 years. Mr. Shaw’s primary areas of responsibility are Store Operations
and Sales. His O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist, and has progressed through the roles of store manager, district manager, regional manager and Vice President of the Southern division. He advanced to Vice President of Sales and
Operations in 2003 and to his current position as Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2004.

Michael D. Swearengin, age
50, Senior Vice President of Merchandise, has been an O’Reilly team member for 17 years. Mr. Swearengin’s primary areas of responsibility are Merchandise, Pricing and Advertising. His O’Reilly career started as an employee in a
store later acquired by O’Reilly, he then became Product Manager, a position he held for four years. From there he advanced to Senior Product Manager, Director of Merchandise and Vice President of Merchandise with responsibility for product mix
and replenishment. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since 2004.

Service Marks and Trademarks

We have registered, acquired and/or been assigned the following service marks and trademarks: BESTEST®, BETTER PARTS. BETTER PRICES.®,
BRAKEBEST®, CERTIFIED AUTO REPAIR®, CUSTOMIZE YOUR RIDE®, FIRST CALL®, FROM OUR STORE TO YOUR DOOR®, HI-LO®, IMPORT DIRECT®, IPOLITE®, MASTER PRO®, MASTER PRO REFINISHING®, MICRO-GARD®, MILES AHEAD®,
MURRAY®, O®, OMNISPARK®, O’REILLY®, O’REILLY AUTO COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS PROFESSIONAL PARTS PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE®, O’REILLY
RACING®, PARTNERSHIP NETWORK®, PARTS CITY®, PARTS CITY AUTO COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, PARTS CITY AUTO PARTS®, PARTS CITY TOOL BOX®, PARTS PAYOFF®, POWER TORQUE®, REAL WORLD TRAINING®, SUPER START®,
TOOLBOX®, ULTIMA®, CSK PROSHOP®, FLAG®, KRAGEN AUTO PARTS®, MURRAY’S AUTO PARTS®, PRIORITY PARTS®, PROXONE®, SCHUCK’S®, WE’RE THE PLACE WITH ALL THE PARTS®, MURRAY’S VIP PROGRAM®, PAY N
$AVE®. Some of the service marks and trademarks listed above may also have a design associated therewith. Each of the service marks and trademarks are in duration for as long as we continue to use and seek renewal of such marks – the
duration of each of these service marks and trademarks is typically between five and ten years per renewal. We believe that our business is not otherwise dependent upon any patent, trademark, service mark or copyright.







