Item 1.Business

Introduction

O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively “O’Reilly” or the “Company”, is one of the largest
specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customers and professional installers. O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.
was incorporated in 1957 as a corporation. The Company was founded by Charles F. O’Reilly and his son, Charles H. “Chub” O’Reilly, Sr. and initially operated from a single store in Springfield, Missouri. The Company’s common
stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ORLY”.

At December 31, 2009, we operated 3,421 stores in 38
states. Our stores carry an extensive product line, including, but not limited to, the products bulleted below (we do not sell tires or perform automotive repairs or installations):



•new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, such as alternators, starters, fuel pumps, water pumps, brake system components, batteries, belts, hoses,
chassis parts and engine parts;



•maintenance items, such as oil, antifreeze, fluids, filters, wiper blades, lighting, engine additives and appearance products;



•accessories, such as floor mats, seat covers and truck accessories; and



•a complete line of auto body paint and related materials, automotive tools and professional service equipment.

On July 11, 2008, we completed the acquisition of CSK, one of the largest specialty retailers of auto parts and accessories in the western United
States and one of the largest such retailers in the United States, based on store count. Pursuant to the merger agreement, each share of CSK common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger was canceled and converted into the right to
receive 0.4285 of a share of O’Reilly common stock and $1.00 in cash. To fund the transaction, we entered into a Credit Agreement (“ABL Credit Agreement”) for a $1.2 billion asset-based revolving credit facility (“ABL Credit
Facility”) arranged by Bank of America, N.A. (“BA”), which we used to refinance debt, fund the cash portion of the acquisition, pay for other transaction-related expenses and provide liquidity for the combined company going forward.
The results of CSK’s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.

At the date of
the acquisition, CSK had 1,342 stores in 22 states, operating under four brand names: Checker Auto Parts, Schuck’s Auto Supply, Kragen Auto Parts and Murray’s Discount Auto Parts. This acquisition added stores in twelve new states: Alaska,
Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington, and a number of new markets in states where O’Reilly had a presence prior to the acquisition. The integration of CSK is focused on the
implementation of our dual market strategy, the ability to effectively serve both DIY customers and professional installers, which requires conversion of store and distribution information systems, enhancements to the distribution infrastructure,
inventory offerings and infusion of the O’Reilly culture. Conversion of all CSK stores to O’Reilly branded stores began in October of 2008 and will continue into 2011. In order to implement our proven dual market strategy throughout the
CSK store network, we have added a distribution center in Seattle, Washington, in November of 2009, and Moreno Valley, California, in January of 2010, and will add distribution centers in Denver, Colorado and Salt Lake City, Utah, in the first half
of 2010. As of December 31, 2009, we had converted 405 CSK stores to O’Reilly systems, merged 41 CSK stores with existing O’Reilly locations, closed 13 CSK stores and opened five new stores in CSK historical markets.

See “Risk Factors” beginning on page 14 for a description of certain risks relevant to our business. These risk factors include, among others,
risks related to our growth strategy, the integration of CSK, increased debt levels, our acquisition strategies, competition in the







automotive aftermarket business, our dependence upon key and other personnel, future growth assurance, our
sensitivity to regional economic and weather conditions, legal proceedings and related matters arising from CSK, the effect of sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results, the
volatility of the market price of our common stock, our relationships with key vendors and availability of key products, complications in our distribution centers, and environmental legislation and regulations.

Our Business

Our goal is to continue to
achieve growth in sales and profitability by capitalizing on our competitive advantages and executing our growth strategy. We remain confident in our ability to continue to gain market share in our existing markets and grow our business in new
markets by focusing on our dual market strategy and core O’Reilly values of customer service and expense control. Our intent is to be the dominant auto parts provider in all the markets we serve by providing significant value to both installer
and DIY customers.

Competitive Advantages

Proven Ability to Execute a Dual Market Strategy.We have an established track record of effectively serving, at a high level, both DIY customers and professional installers. We believe our ability
to execute a dual market strategy is a competitive advantage. The execution of this strategy enables us to better compete by targeting a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts, by capitalizing on our existing retail and
distribution infrastructure, by operating profitably in both large markets and less densely populated geographic areas that typically attract fewer competitors, as well as by enhancing service levels offered to DIY customers through the offering of
a broad inventory and the extensive product knowledge required by professional installers.

We have been committed to our dual market strategy
for over 30 years. In 2009, core O’Reilly stores derived approximately 53% of our sales from our DIY customers and approximately 47% from our professional installer customers. As a result of our historical success of executing our dual market
strategy and our over 450 full-time sales staff dedicated solely to calling upon and servicing the professional installer, we believe we will continue to increase our sales to professional installers and will continue to have a competitive advantage
over our retail competitors who derive a high concentration of their sales from the DIY market. In 2009, acquired CSK stores derived approximately 84% of sales from our DIY customers and approximately 16% from our professional installer customers.
We have a tremendous opportunity to build on the strong retail base at the CSK stores by growing the commercial business through the implementation of our dual market strategy and capitalizing on our other competitive advantages.

Superior Customer Service.We seek to attract new DIY and professional installer customers and to retain existing customers by offering superior
customer service, the key elements of which are bulleted below:



•superior in-store service through highly-motivated, technically-proficient store personnel (“Professional Parts People”) using an advanced
point-of-sale system;



•an extensive selection and availability of products;



•attractive stores in convenient locations; and



•competitive pricing, supported by a good, better, best product assortment designed to meet all of our customers’ quality and value preferences.

Technically Proficient Professional Parts People.Our highly proficient Professional Parts People provide us with a
significant competitive advantage, particularly over less specialized retail operators. We require our Professional Parts People to undergo extensive and ongoing training and to be technically knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts,
in order to better serve the technically oriented professional installers with whom they interact on a daily basis. Such technical proficiency also enhances the customer service we provide to our DIY customers who value the expert assistance
provided by our Professional Parts People.

Strategic Distribution Systems.We believe our commitment to a robust, regional
distribution center network provides for superior replenishment and access to hard-to-find parts and enables us to optimize product availability and inventory levels throughout our store network. Our inventory management and distribution systems
electronically link each of our stores to a distribution center, providing for efficient inventory control and management. Our distribution system provides each of our stores, excluding the nonconverted CSK stores, with same-day or overnight access
to an average of 118,000 stock keeping units (“SKUs”), many of which are hard to find items not typically stocked by other auto parts retailers. Distribution infrastructure enhancements are a key component to the CSK integration plan and
will enable us to support the acquired store network with the same inventory availability provided to our historic O’Reilly markets. We believe this timely access to a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage in satisfying
customer demand and generating repeat business.

We currently operate 21 distribution centers, including two acquired in the CSK acquisition
and our newly opened Greensboro, North Carolina; Seattle, Washington; and Moreno Valley, California, distribution centers. In 2010, we will open additional distribution







centers in Denver, Colorado, and Salt Lake City, Utah, to help support the acquired CSK stores in the west.
As these new distribution centers open, the acquired CSK stores in those areas will begin to convert to O’Reilly systems and will begin receiving same-day or overnight access to an average of 118,000 SKUs.

Experienced Management Team.Our management team has demonstrated the consistent ability to successfully execute our business plan, including the
identification and integration of strategic acquisitions. We have experienced seventeen consecutive years of record revenues and positive comparable store sales results since becoming a public company in April of 1993. We have a strong senior
management team comprised of 133 professionals who average 16 years of service. In addition, our 191 corporate managers average 13 years of service and our 311 district managers average 10 years of service.

Growth Strategy

Aggressively
Open New Stores.

We target both small and large markets for expansion of our store network. While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, aggressive competition in the more densely populated markets, we believe that we have competed effectively, and
that we are well positioned to continue to compete effectively, in such markets and achieve our goal of continued sales and profit growth within these markets. We also believe that with our dual market strategy, we are better able to operate stores
in less densely populated areas within our geographic footprint, which would not otherwise support a national chain store selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. Consequently, we also expect to continue to open new stores in less
densely populated market areas.

Profitable same store sales growth is also an important part of our growth strategy. To achieve improved
sales and profitability at existing O’Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve the service provided to our customers. We believe that while competitive pricing is an essential component of successful growth in the automotive aftermarket
business, it is customer satisfaction, whether of the DIY consumer or professional installer, resulting from superior customer service that generates increased sales and profitability.

Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions.Although the automotive aftermarket industry is still highly fragmented, we believe the ability of national retail chains, such as ourselves, to operate
more efficiently than smaller independent operators or mass merchandisers will result in continued industry consolidation. Thus, our intention is to continue to selectively pursue acquisition targets that will strengthen our position as a leading
automotive products supplier.

Continually Enhance Store Design and Location.Our current prototype store design features enhancements
such as optimized square footage, higher ceilings, more convenient interior store layouts, improved in-store signage, brighter lighting, increased parking availability and dedicated counters to serve professional installers, each designed to
increase sales and operating efficiencies and enhance customer service. We continually update the location and condition of our store network through systematic renovation and relocation of our existing stores to enhance store performance. We
believe that our ability to consistently achieve growth in same store sales is due in part to our commitment to maintaining an attractive store network, which is strategically located to best serve our customers.

Grow Professional Installer Relationships in the Western United States.In order to implement our proven dual market strategy throughout the CSK
store network and grow our share of the professional installer market in those areas, we opened distribution centers in Seattle, Washington, in November of 2009 and Moreno Valley, California, in January of 2010. We will open two new distribution
centers in Denver, Colorado, and Salt Lake City, Utah, in the first half of 2010. The Seattle, Moreno Valley and Denver distribution centers were existing facilities we purchased and ranged in size from 222,000 to 407,000 square feet. The Salt Lake
City distribution center will be constructed and total approximately 205,000 square feet. After evaluation of the existing CSK Dixon, California, distribution center, we made the decision to relocate this distribution center to a larger facility in
Stockton, California. The Stockton, California, distribution center will be a 520,000 square foot, leased facility that will open in the summer of 2010. These strategically located distribution centers will provide converted CSK stores with same-day
or overnight delivery access to an average







of 118,000 SKUs and will give these stores an important tool to provide industry-leading customer service to
the professional installer, as well as the DIY customer. Our expanded distribution network will provide access to the breadth of SKUs needed to succeed in the professional installer side of the business and will be a very meaningful service
enhancement for our retail customers as well.

Management Structure

Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and one or more assistant managers, in addition to parts specialists, retail and/or installer service
specialists and other positions required to meet the specific needs of that store. Each of our 311 district managers has general supervisory responsibility for an average of 11 stores, which provides our stores with the appropriate amount of
operational support.

Each district manager receives continuous comprehensive training throughout their management tenure through training
sessions and meetings with their regional managers. These training sessions and meetings focus on management techniques, new product announcements, advanced automotive systems training and our policies and procedures. In turn, the information
presented at such training sessions and meetings is covered by the district managers at monthly meetings with their store managers. All store managers are required to successfully complete a six-month manager-training program, which includes
classroom and field training. This program covers all facets of store operations, as well as principles of successful management. In addition, all new or prospective managers attend a manager development program, at the corporate headquarters in
Springfield, Missouri, which includes 40 hours of classroom training. Upon returning to the stores, managers are given continuous field training throughout their management tenure.

We provide financial incentives to our district managers and all store team members through incentive compensation programs. Under our incentive compensation programs, base salary is augmented by
incentive compensation based upon their individual and/or store’s sales and profitability. In addition, each of our district and store managers participates in the Company’s stock option program. We believe that our incentive compensation
programs significantly increase the motivation and overall performance of our district and store team members and enhance our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.

Most of our current senior management, district managers and store managers were promoted to their positions from within the Company. Our senior management
team averages 16 years of service, corporate management team averages over 13 years of service and district management team have an average length of service of over 10 years.

Team Members

As of January 31, 2010, we employed 44,822 total team members
(30,379 full-time team members and 14,443 part-time team members), of whom 37,517 were employed at our stores, 5,756 were employed at our distribution centers and 1,549 were employed at our corporate and regional offices. A union represents 53
stores’ team members in the Greater Bay Area in California, and has for many years – except for these team members, our team members are not represented by a labor union. Our tradition of 53 years has been to treat all of our team members
with honesty and respect and to commit significant resources to instill in them our “Live Green” Culture, which emphasizes the importance of every team member’s contribution to the success of O’Reilly. This focus on
professionalism and fairness has created an industry-leading team and we consider our relations with our team members to be excellent.

Inflation and Seasonality

We have been successful, in many cases, in reducing the effects of merchandise cost increases
principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective forward buying. To the extent our acquisition cost increases due to base commodity price increases
industry-wide, we have typically been able to pass along these increased costs through higher retail prices for the affected products. As a result, we do not believe our operations have been materially, adversely affected by inflation.

To some extent, our business is seasonal primarily as a result of the impact of weather conditions on customer buying patterns. Store sales and profits
have historically been higher in the second and third quarters (April through September) than in the first and fourth quarters of the year.

Regulations

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to our
business, including those related to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, the recycling of batteries and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property.







As part of our operations, we handle hazardous materials in the ordinary course of business and our
customers may bring hazardous materials onto our property in connection with, for example, our oil and battery recycling programs. We currently provide a recycling program for batteries and the collection of used lubricants at certain of our stores
as a service to our customers pursuant to agreements with third-party vendors. The batteries and used lubricants are collected by our associates, deposited into vendor-supplied containers and pallets and then disposed of by the third-party vendors.
In general, our agreements with such vendors contain provisions that are designed to limit our potential liability under applicable environmental regulations for any damage or contamination, which may be caused by the batteries and lubricants to
off-site properties (including as a result of waste disposal) and to our properties, when caused by the vendor.

Compliance with any such laws
and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date. We cannot give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses in the future in order to comply with any such law or regulation.

Available Information

Our Internet
address is www.oreillyauto.com. Interested readers can access, free of charge, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the Securities and Exchange Commission website atwww.sec.govand searching with our ticker symbol “ORLY”. Such reports are
generally available the day they are filed. Upon request, the Company will furnish interested readers a paper copy of such reports free of charge by contacting Thomas McFall, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, at 233
South Patterson, Springfield, Missouri, 65802.







Store Operations

Store Network

Store Locations.As a result of our dual market strategy, we
are able to profitably operate in both large, densely populated markets and small, less densely populated areas that would not otherwise support a national chain selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket. The following table sets forth
the geographic distribution of our stores:





December 31,20082009 Net NewO’Reilly Stores2009 CSK NetNew, Merged orClosed StoresDecember 31, 2009

StateStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountStoreCount% ofTotalStoreCountCumulative% of TotalStore Count

Texas50615.4%1510.6%——52115.2%15.2%

California48014.6%—0.0%(3)42.8%47713.9%29.1%

Missouri1755.3%21.4%——1775.2%34.3%

Georgia1314.0%128.5%——1434.2%38.5%

Washington1394.2%—0.0%——1394.1%42.6%

Arizona1293.9%—0.0%——1293.8%46.4%

Tennessee1223.7%75.0%——1293.8%50.2%

Illinois1233.7%32.1%(1)14.3%1253.7%53.9%

Oklahoma1063.2%32.1%——1093.2%57.1%

Alabama1033.1%21.4%——1053.1%60.2%

Minnesota1003.0%—0.0%——1002.9%63.1%

Arkansas942.9%21.4%——962.8%65.9%

Colorado892.7%—0.0%(2)28.6%872.5%68.4%

Louisiana792.4%10.7%——802.3%70.7%

North Carolina481.5%2920.4%——772.3%73.0%

Indiana702.1%42.8%——742.2%75.2%

Mississippi682.1%32.1%——712.1%77.3%

Michigan652.0%21.4%——672.0%79.3%

Iowa652.0%—0.0%——651.9%81.2%

Kansas642.0%10.7%——651.9%83.1%

Ohio421.3%2114.8%——631.8%84.9%

Wisconsin451.4%107.0%——551.6%86.5%

Utah551.7%—0.0%(1)14.3%541.6%88.1%

Kentucky531.6%10.7%——541.6%89.7%

South Carolina401.2%107.0%——501.5%91.2%

Nevada451.4%—0.0%——451.3%92.5%

Oregon421.3%—0.0%——421.2%93.7%

New Mexico351.1%32.1%——381.1%94.8%

Florida240.7%85.7%——320.9%95.7%

Idaho300.9%—0.0%——300.9%96.6%

Nebraska280.9%10.7%——290.8%97.4%

Montana230.7%—0.0%——230.7%98.1%

Wyoming160.5%—0.0%——160.5%98.6%

North Dakota120.4%—0.0%——120.4%99.0%

Alaska110.3%—0.0%——110.3%99.3%

Hawaii110.3%—0.0%——110.3%99.6%

South Dakota100.3%10.7%——110.3%99.9%

Virginia70.2%21.4%——90.1%100.0%



Total3,285100%143100%(7)100%3,421100%









Our stores, on average, carry approximately 22,000 SKUs and average approximately 7,000 total square feet in
size. At December 31, 2009, we had a total of approximately 24.2 million square feet in our 3,421 stores. Our stores are served primarily by the nearest distribution center, but they also have access to the broader selection of inventory
available at one of our 196 Master Inventory Stores, which on average carry approximately 38,000 SKUs and average approximately 9,900 square feet in size. In addition to serving DIY and professional installer customers in their markets, Master
Inventory Stores also provide our other stores within the contiguous area access to a greater selection of SKUs on a same-day basis.

We
believe that our stores are “destination stores” generating their own traffic rather than relying on traffic created by the presence of other stores in the immediate vicinity. Consequently, most of our stores are freestanding buildings and
prominent end caps situated on or near major traffic thoroughfares, and offer ample parking, easy customer access and proximity to our installer customers.

Store Layout.We utilize a computer-assisted “plan-o-grammed” store layout system to provide a uniform and consistent merchandise presentation; however, each store’s hard-parts
inventory assortment is customized to meet the specific needs of a particular market area. Front room merchandise is arranged to provide easy customer access, maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to
customers. To ensure the best customer experience possible, we have selectively implemented bilingual in-store signage based on the demographics in each store’s geographic area. Aisle displays and end caps are used to feature high-demand or
seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials.

Store Automation.To enhance store-level operations, customer service and
reliability, we use IBM I-Series and X-Series computer systems in stores that have converted to the O’Reilly systems. These systems are linked with the I-Series computers located in each of our distribution centers. Our point-of-sale terminals
provide immediate access to our electronic catalog to graphically display parts and pricing information by make, model and year of vehicle and use bar code scanning technology to price our merchandise. This system speeds transaction times, reduces
the customer’s checkout time, ensures accuracy and provides enhanced customer service. Moreover, our store automation systems capture detailed sales information which assists in store management, strategic planning, inventory control and
distribution efficiency. As CSK stores are converted to O’Reilly stores, IBM I-Series and X-Series computer systems are installed in the converted store, linking the store to our distribution centers, electronic catalog and pricing information.

New Store Site Selection.In selecting sites for new stores, we seek to strategically locate store sites in clusters within
geographic areas in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising and distribution. Other key factors we consider in the site selection process are bulleted below:



•population density and segmentation;



•market economic strength, retail draw and growth patterns;



•age, ethnicity and per capita income;



•number of registered vehicles;



•the number, type and sales potential of existing automotive repair facilities;



•the number of auto parts stores and other competitors within a predetermined radius and the operational strength of such competitors; and



•physical location, size, economics and presentation of the site.

When entering new, more densely populated markets, we generally seek to initially open several stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect of initial promotional programs and
achieve economies of scale. After opening this initial cluster of new stores, we seek to begin penetrating the less densely populated surrounding areas. This strategy enables us to achieve additional distribution and advertising efficiencies in each
market.

Products and Purchasing

Our stores offer DIY and professional installer customers a wide selection of brand name and private label products for domestic and imported automobiles, vans and trucks. We do not sell tires or perform
automotive repairs or installations. Our merchandise generally consists of nationally recognized, well-advertised, premium name brand products such as AC Delco, Armor All, BWD, Cardone, Castrol, Federal Mogul, Gates Rubber, Monroe, Moog, Pennzoil,
Prestone, Quaker State, STP, Turtle Wax, Valvoline, Wagner, and Wix. In addition to name brand products, our stores carry a wide variety of high-quality private label products under our BestTest®, BrakeBest®, Master Pro®, Micro-Gard®, Murray and Omnispark®,
O’Reilly Auto Parts®, Power Torque®, Super Start®, and
Ultima®proprietary name brands. Our private label products are produced by nationally recognized manufacturers
and meet or exceed original equipment manufacturer specifications and provide a great combination of quality and value – a characteristic important to our DIY customers. We have added O’Reilly branded chemicals and commodities as well as
proprietary private label products to all converted and nonconverted, acquired CSK stores. These stores have also undergone hard-part resets, which significantly increased their hard-part SKU offering, giving our customers in all stores a good,
better, and best product offering.







We purchase automotive products in substantial quantities from over 500 vendors, the five largest of which
accounted for approximately 24% of our total purchases in 2009. Our largest vendor in 2009 accounted for approximately nine percent of our total purchases and the next four largest vendors each accounted for approximately three to four percent of
such purchases. We have no long-term contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor have we experienced difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative supply sources for automotive parts. We believe that alternative supply sources
exist at substantially similar costs, for substantially all of the automotive products that we sell. It is our policy to take advantage of payment and seasonal purchasing discounts offered by our vendors and to utilize extended dating terms
available from vendors. During 2009, we entered into various programs and arrangements with certain vendors that provided for extended dating and payment terms for inventory purchases. As a whole, we consider our relationships with our vendors to be
very good.

Pricing

We believe that a competitive pricing policy is essential to successfully operate in the automotive aftermarket business. Product pricing is generally established to compete with the pricing policies of competitors in the market area served
by each store. Most automotive products that we sell are priced based upon a combination of competitor price comparisons and internal gross margin targets and are generally sold at a discount to the manufacturer’s suggested retail price with
additional savings offered through volume discounts and special promotional pricing. Consistent with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price on any in-stock product of the same or comparable quality offered by our
competitors in the same market area.

We have repositioned the product offering and pricing in all CSK stores to an every-day low price
strategy to ensure we are competitive in every market. We feel competitive pricing is needed to grow our market share and maintain a customer’s repeat business, and we feel strongly that this strategy is more sustainable, requires less
promotional spending and will produce better results than CSK’s historical promotional-based, high-low pricing strategy.

Professional Parts People

We believe our highly trained team of Professional Parts People is essential in providing
superior customer service to both DIY and professional installer customers. Because a significant portion of our business is from installers, our Professional Parts People are required to be technically proficient in automotive products. In
addition, we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance from a Professional Parts Person, particularly when purchasing hard parts. The ability of our Professional Parts People to provide such assistance to the DIY customer
creates a favorable impression and is a significant factor in generating repeat DIY business.

We screen prospective team members to identify
highly motivated individuals who either have experience with automotive parts or repairs, or automotive aptitude. New store team members go through a comprehensive orientation about the culture of our company as well as the requirements for their
specific job position. Additionally, during their first year of employment, our parts specialists go through extensive automotive systems training to prepare them to become certified by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE).
Parts specialists also receive ongoing product knowledge training to ensure they are able to provide the highest level of service to our customers.

All of our stores have the ability to service professional installer customers. For this reason, select team members in each store complete extensive sales call training with their regional field sales manager. Afterward, these team members
spend one day per week calling on existing and potential professional installer customers. Additionally, each team member engaged in such sales activities participates in quarterly advanced training programs for sales and business development.

Customer Service

We
seek to provide our customers with an efficient and pleasant in-store experience by maintaining attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide selection of automotive products. We believe that the satisfaction of DIY and professional
installer customers is substantially dependent upon our ability to provide, in a timely fashion, the specific automotive products requested. Accordingly, each O’Reilly store carries a broad selection of automotive products designed to cover a
wide range of vehicle applications. We continuously refine the inventory levels and assortments carried in our stores, based in large part on the sales movement tracked by our inventory control system, market vehicle registration data, failure rates
and management’s assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.

Marketing

Marketing to the DIY Customer.We aggressively promote sales to DIY customers through an integrated marketing program, which includes television,
radio, direct mail and newspaper advertising, in-store and online promotions, and sports and event sponsorships.







Our marketing activities have resulted in a significant increase in our brand awareness across our
geographic footprint. We utilize a combination of brand and product/price messaging to drive retail traffic and purchases, which frequently coincide with key sales events. During 2009, we continued to co-brand our advertising in the markets where
nonconverted CSK stores are located. This advertising and marketing is essential to build awareness of the O’Reilly Brand in those markets to allow for a smoother transition as stores are rebranded. In addition to co-branding in these select
markets, we have co-branded all existing CSK advertising programs that have national exposure.

To stimulate sales to race enthusiasts, who we
believe on an individual basis spend more on automotive products than the general public, we sponsored multiple nationally televised races and over 1,500 grassroots, local, and regional motorsports events in 38 states during 2009. We continued our
partnership with NASCAR as the Official Auto Parts Store of NASCAR and in the fall of 2009 we sponsored the Checker O’Reilly Auto Parts 500 NASCAR Sprint Cup race, at the Phoenix International Raceway.

During the fall and winter, we strategically sponsor National Collegiate Athletic Association (“NCAA”) basketball and the National Football League
(“NFL”). We have relationships with over 80 NCAA teams and tournaments resulting in the placement of the O’Reilly logo on courts, goal stanchions, seat backs, kick plates, and scoring table signs throughout the season. O’Reilly
Auto Parts radio advertising can be heard in approximately 200 NFL games through our sponsorship of a dozen teams.

In 2009, we continued our
dedicated problem/solution messaging strategy, which encourages vehicle owners to perform regular maintenance as a way to save money and protect their automotive investment over the long term. We expanded our Hispanic marketing efforts to capture
incremental sales from this dynamic and growing consumer segment.

Marketing to the Professional Installer.We have over 450 full-time
O’Reilly sales representatives strategically located across our market areas. Each sales representative is dedicated solely to calling upon, selling to and servicing our professional installer customers. Targeted marketing materials such as
flyers, quick reference guides and catalogs are produced and distributed on a regular basis to professional installers, paint and body shops and fleet customers. Our industry leading First Call program enables our sales representatives, district
managers, and store managers to provide excellent customer service to each of our professional installer accounts by providing the products and services bulleted below:



•broad selection of merchandise at competitive prices;



•dedicated Installer Service Specialists in our stores;



•multiple deliveries from our stores per day;



•same-day or overnight access to an average of 118,000 SKUs through five-night-a-week store inventory replenishments;



•a separate service counter and phone line in our stores dedicated exclusively to service professional installers;



•trade credit for qualified accounts;



•First Call Online, a dedicated Internet based catalog and ordering system designed to connect professional installers directly to our inventory system;



•training and seminars covering topics of interest, such as technical updates, safety and general business management;



•access to a comprehensive inventory of products and equipment needed to operate and maintain their shop; and



•the Certified Auto Repair Center Program, a program that provides professional installers with business tools they can utilize to profitably grow and
market their shops.

Marketing to the Independently Owned Parts Store.Along with the daily operation and management
of the distribution centers and the distribution of automotive products to our stores, Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Ozark”), also sells automotive products directly to independently owned parts stores
(“jobber stores”) throughout our trade areas. These jobber stores are generally located in areas not directly serviced by an O’Reilly store. Ozark administers a dedicated and distinct marketing program specifically targeted to jobber
stores.

Approximately 183 jobber stores currently purchase automotive products from Ozark and participate in our Parts City Auto Parts
program, our proprietary jobber service program. As a participant in these programs, a jobber store, which meets certain financial and operational standards, is permitted to indicate its Parts City Auto Parts membership through the display of the
respective logo that is owned by Ozark. We provide advertising, promotional assistance, marketing and sales support to Parts City Auto Parts stores purchasing automotive products from Ozark. In return for a commitment to purchase automotive products
from Ozark, we offer assistance to Parts City Auto Parts jobber stores by making available computer software for business management and inventory control.

Competition

We compete in both the DIY and professional installer portions of the
automotive aftermarket. We compete primarily with the stores bulleted below:







•national retail and wholesale automotive parts chains (such as AutoZone, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, NAPA, CARQUEST and the Pep Boys- Manny, Moe and
Jack, Inc.);



•regional retail and wholesale automotive parts chains;



•independently owned parts stores;



•wholesalers or jobber stores (some of which are associated with national automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA, CARQUEST, Bumper
to Bumper and Auto Value);



•automobile dealers; and



•mass merchandisers that carry automotive replacement parts, maintenance items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.).

We compete on the basis of customer service, which includes merchandise selection and availability, price, helpfulness of
store personnel, store layout and convenient and accessible store locations.

Distribution System Support

We currently operate 21 distribution centers comprised of approximately 7.4 million operating square feet (see the “Properties” table in
Item 2 of this Form 10-K for a detailed listing of distribution center operating square footages). Our distribution centers are equipped with highly automated material handling equipment, which efficiently expedite the movement of our products
from the shelves to the loading areas for shipment to each of our stores on a nightly basis. The distribution centers utilize technology to electronically receive orders from computers located in each of our stores. In addition to the bar code
system employed in our stores, each of our stores is connected through secured data transmission technology to our distribution centers and corporate headquarters.

We believe that our distribution system provides industry-leading parts availability and store in-stock positions while lowering our inventory carrying costs and controlling inventory. Moreover, we
believe that our ongoing, significant capital investments made to expand the network of distribution centers allows us to efficiently service new stores that are planned to open in contiguous market areas as well as servicing our existing store
network. Our distribution center expansion strategy complements our new store opening strategy by supporting newly established clusters of stores located in the regions surrounding each distribution center. We opened a new distribution center in
Greensboro, North Carolina in the summer of 2009, to service existing stores in that area and to expand in the Mid-Atlantic States. We currently have a total growth capacity of approximately 350 stores in our current 21 distribution centers.

In order to implement our proven dual market strategy throughout the CSK store network, we added distribution centers in Seattle, Washington,
in November of 2009 and Moreno Valley, California, in January of 2010. Following these openings, two additional new distribution centers will be opened in Denver, Colorado and Salt Lake City, Utah, in the first half of 2010. The Seattle, Moreno
Valley and Denver distribution centers were purchased existing facilities, while the land for the Salt Lake City distribution center was purchased and the distribution center is being constructed. After a detailed evaluation of the existing CSK
Dixon, California, distribution center, we made the decision to relocate this distribution center to a larger facility in Stockton, California, which will open in the summer of 2010. We closed one CSK distribution center in Mendota Heights,
Minnesota, in the spring of 2009 that directly overlapped a larger, existing O’Reilly distribution center in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota.

As part of our continuing efforts to enhance our distribution network in 2010 we plan to:



•add three new distribution centers (“DCs”), relocate and convert an existing acquired CSK DC and convert an existing acquired CSK DC;



•continue to implement a voice picking technology in additional distribution centers;



•develop further automated paperless picking processes;



•improve proof of delivery systems to further increase the accuracy of product movement to our stores;



•implement our dedicated private delivery fleet model in the Western United States enabling us to further reduce logistics costs and provide a higher
service level to our stores;



•continue to define and implement best practice procedures in all distribution centers; and



•make proven, ROI based capital enhancements to material handling equipment in distribution centers including conveyor systems, picking modules and lift
equipment.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following paragraphs discuss information about executive officers of the Company who are not also directors:

Gregory L. Henslee, age 49, Chief Executive Officer and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team member for 25 years. Mr. Henslee’s O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist,
and during his first five years he served in several positions in retail store operations, including district manager. From there he advanced to Computer Operations Manager, and over the next 15 years, he







served as Director of Computer Operations/Loss Prevention, Vice President of Store Operations and as Senior
Vice President. In 1999, he became President of Merchandise, Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention, and has been in his current positions of Chief Executive Officer and Co-President since 2005.

Ted F. Wise, age 59, Chief Operating Officer and Co-President, has been an O’Reilly team member for 39 years. Mr. Wise’s primary areas
of responsibility are Sales, Operations and Real Estate. He began his O’Reilly career in sales in 1970, was promoted to store manager in 1973 and became our first district manager in 1977. He continued his progression with O’Reilly as
Operations Manager, Vice President, Senior Vice President of Operations and Sales, and Executive Vice President. He has been President of Sales, Operations and Real Estate since 1999, and in his current positions of Chief Operating Officer and
Co-President since 2005.

Thomas G. McFall, age 39, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has been an
O’Reilly team member since 2006 and has held his position as Chief Financial Officer during this time. Mr. McFall’s primary areas of responsibility are Finance and Accounting. Prior to joining O’Reilly, Mr. McFall held the
position of Chief Financial Officer – Midwest Operation for CSK, following CSK’s acquisition of Murray’s Discount Auto Stores (“Murray’s”). Mr. McFall served Murray’s for eight years as Controller, Vice
President of Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, with direct responsibility for finance and accounting, distribution and logistics operations. Prior to joining Murray’s, Mr. McFall was an Audit Manager with Ernst & Young, LLP in
Detroit, Michigan.

Jeff M. Shaw, age 47, Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations, has been an O’Reilly team member for 21
years. Mr. Shaw’s primary areas of responsibility are managing Store Sales and Operations. His O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist, and has progressed through the roles of store manager, district manager, regional manager
and Vice President of the Southern division. He advanced to Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2003 and to his current position as Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2004.

Michael D. Swearengin, age 49, Senior Vice President of Merchandise, has been an O’Reilly team member for 16 years. Mr.

Swearengin’s primary areas of responsibility are Merchandise, Purchasing, Pricing and Advertising. His O’Reilly career started as an employee in a
store later acquired by O’Reilly, he then became Product Manager, a position he held for four years. From there he advanced to Senior Product Manager, Director of Merchandise and Vice President of Merchandise with responsibility for product mix
and replenishment. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since 2004.

Gregory D. Johnson, age 44, Senior Vice
President of Distribution Operations, has been an O’Reilly team member for 27 years. Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is Distribution and Logistics. He began his O’Reilly career as a part-time stocker in the Nashville
DC in 1982 and advanced with O’Reilly as Retail Systems Manager, WMS Systems Development Manager, Director of Distribution and Vice President of Distribution. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since September 2007.

Service Marks and Trademarks

We have registered, acquired and/or been assigned the following service marks and trademarks: BESTEST®, BETTER PARTS. BETTER PRICES.®, BRAKEBEST®, CERTIFIED AUTO
REPAIR®, CUSTOMIZE YOUR RIDE®, FIRST CALL®, FROM OUR STORE
TO YOUR DOOR®, HI-LO®, MASTER PRO®, MASTER PRO
REFINISHING®, MICRO-GARD®, MILES AHEAD®, MURRAY®, O®, OMNISPARK®,
O’REILLY®, O’REILLY AUTO COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS PROFESSIONAL PARTS PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE®,
O’REILLY RACING®, PARTNERSHIP NETWORK®, PARTS CITY®, PARTS CITY AUTO
COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, PARTS CITY AUTO PARTS®, PARTS CITY TOOL BOX®, PARTS
PAYOFF®, POWER TORQUE®, REAL WORLD TRAINING®, SUPER
START®, SUPER START FARMLAND®, TOOLBOX®, ULTIMA®, CSK PROSHOP®, FLAG®, KRAGEN AUTO
PARTS®, MURRAY’S AUTO PARTS®, MURRAY’S DISCOUNT AUTO STORE THE AUTO PARTS SUPERMARKET®, PRIORITY PARTS®,
PROXONE®, SCHUCK’S®, WE’RE THE PLACE WITH ALL THE PARTS®, MURRAY’S VIP PROGRAM®,
PAY N $AVE®. Some of the service marks and trademarks listed above may also have a design associated therewith.
Each of the service marks and trademarks are in duration for as long as we continue to use and seek renewal of such marks – the duration of each of these service marks and trademarks is typically between five and ten years per renewal. We
believe that our business is not otherwise dependent upon any patent, trademark, service mark or copyright.







