Item 1.Business



GENERAL INFORMATION



O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively “we”, “O’Reilly” or the “Company”, is one of the largest specialty retailers of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States, selling our products to both do-it-yourself (“DIY”) and professional service provider customers, our “dual market strategy”.The business was founded in 1957 byCharles F. O'Reilly and his son, Charles H. ''Chub'' O'Reilly, Sr. and initially operated from a single store in Springfield, Missouri.  Our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ORLY” since April 22, 1993.



At the close of business on December 31, 2012, we completed an asset purchase of the auto-parts related assets of VIP Parts, Tires & Service (“VIP”), which is a large privately held automotive parts, tires and service chain in New England, and operated 56 stores and one distribution center located throughout Maine, New Hampshire and Massachusetts.  Theacquired assets of VIP areincluded in our consolidated financial statements as of the acquisition date.



On December 29, 2010, we completed a corporate reorganization creating a holding company structureand during which O’Reilly Automotive, Inc. was incorporated on December 27, 2010, which was implemented through an agreement and plan of merger under Section 351.448 of The General Corporation Law of the State of Missouri, which did not require a vote of the shareholders.  As a result of this reorganization, the previous parent company and registrant, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., was renamed O’Reilly Automotive Stores, Inc. and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the new parent company and registrant, which was renamed O’Reilly Automotive, Inc.



On July 11, 2008, we acquired CSK Auto Corporation (“CSK”), which was one of the largest specialty retailers of auto parts and accessories in the western United States and one of the largest such retailers in the United States, based on store count at the date of acquisition.  At the date of the acquisition, CSK had 1,342 stores in 22 states, operating under four brand names:  Checker Auto Parts, Schuck’s Auto Supply, Kragen Auto Parts and Murray’s Discount Auto Parts.  The results of CSK’s operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.



At December 31, 2012, weoperated3,976stores in42states.  Ourstores carry an extensive product line, including the products identified below:



·new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, such as alternators, starters, fuel pumps, water pumps, brake system components, batteries, belts, hoses, temperature control, chassis parts and engine parts;

·maintenance items, such as oil, antifreeze, fluids, filters, wiper blades, lighting, engine additives and appearance products; and

·accessories, such as floor mats, seat covers and truck accessories.



Our stores offer many enhanced services and programs to our customers, such as those identified below:



·used oil, oil filter and battery recycling

·battery, wiper and bulb replacement

·battery diagnostic testing

·electrical and module testing

·check engine light code extraction








·loaner tool program

·drum and rotor resurfacing

·custom hydraulic hoses

·professional paint shop mixing and related materials

·machine shops



See "Risk Factors" beginning onpage 14fora description of certain risks relevant to our business.  These risk factors include, among others, deteriorating economic conditions, the performance of acquired stores, increased debt levels, our acquisition strategies, competition in the automotive aftermarket business, our dependence upon key and other personnel, future growth assurance, our sensitivity to regional economic and weather conditions, the effect of sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results, the volatility of the market price of our common stock, our relationships with key vendors and availability of key products, a downgrade in our credit ratings, complications in our distribution centers (“DC”s), and environmental legislation and other regulations.



OUR BUSINESS



Our goal is to continue to achieve growth in sales and profitability by capitalizing on our competitive advantages and executing our growth strategy.  We remain confident in our ability to continue to gain market share in our existing markets and grow our business in new markets by focusing on our dual market strategy and the core O’Reilly values of customer service and expense control.  Our intent is to be the dominant auto parts provider in all the markets we serve, by providing superior customer service and significant value to both DIY and professional service provider customers.



Competitive Advantages



We believe our effective dual market strategy, superior customer service, strategic distribution systems and experienced management team make up our key competitive advantages that cannot be easily duplicated.



Proven Ability to Execute a Dual Market Strategy:

Over the past 30 years, we have established a track record of effectively serving, at a high level, both DIY and professional service providercustomers.  We believe our proven ability to effectively execute a dual market strategy is a unique competitive advantage.  The execution of this strategy enables us to better compete by targeting a larger base of consumers of automotive aftermarket parts, capitalizing on our existing retail and distribution infrastructure, operating profitably in both large markets and less densely populated geographic areas that typically attract fewer competitors, and enhancing service levels offered to DIY customers through the offering of a broad inventory and the extensive product knowledge required by professional service providers.



In 2012, we derivedapproximately59% of our sales from our DIY customers and approximately41% of our sales from our professional service provider customers.  Prior to the acquisition of CSK, we derived approximately 50% of our sales from both our DIY and professional service provider customers.  As we continue to grow our commercial business in the acquired CSK markets, we expect that over time our DIY and professional service provider sales mix to approximate historical averages.  As a result of our historical success of executing our dual market strategy and our over470full-time sales staff dedicated solely to calling upon and servicing the professional service provider customer, we believe we will continue to increaseour sales to professional service provider customers and will continue to have a competitive advantage over our retail competitors who continue to derive a higher concentration of their sales from the DIY market.



Superior Customer Service:

We seek to attract new DIY and professional service provider customers and to retain existing customers by offering superior customer service, the key elements of which are identified below:



·superior in-store service through highly-motivated, technically-proficient store personnel (“Professional Parts People”) using an advanced point-of-sale system

·an extensive selection and availability of products

·attractive stores in convenient locations

·competitive pricing, supported by a good, better, best product assortment designed to meet all of our customers’ quality and value preferences



Technically Proficient Professional Parts People:

Our highly-motivated, technically-proficient Professional Parts People provide us with a significant competitive advantage, particularly over less specialized retail operators.  We require our Professional Parts People to undergo extensive and ongoing training and to be technically knowledgeable, particularly with respect to hard parts, in order to better serve the technically-oriented professional service provider customers with whom they interact on a daily basis.  Such technical proficiency also enhances the customer service we provide to our DIY customers who value the expert assistance provided by our Professional Parts People.












Strategic Regional Tiered Distribution Network:

We believe our commitment to a robust, regional,tiered distribution network provides for superior replenishment and access to hard-to-find partsand enables us to optimize product availability and inventory levels throughout our store network.  Our strategic regional tiered distributionnetworkincludes DCsandHub stores.  Our inventory management and distribution systems electronically link each of our stores to one or more DCs, which provides for efficient inventory control and management.  We currently operate24regional DCs, which provide our stores with same-day or overnight access to an average of142,000stock keeping units (“SKU”s), many of which are hard-to-find items not typically stocked by other auto parts retailers.To augment our robust DC network, we operate240Hub storesthatalso provide delivery serviceand same-day access to an average of 42,000 SKUsto other stores within the surrounding area.  We believe this timely access to a broad range of products is a key competitive advantage in satisfying customer demand and generating repeat business.



Experienced Management Team:

Our Company philosophy is to “promote from within” and the vast majority of our senior management, district managers and store managers have been promoted from within the Company.  We augment this promote from within philosophy by pursuing strategic hires with a strong emphasis on automotive aftermarket experience.  We have a strong management team comprised of senior management with146professionals who average18years of service;273corporate managers who average15years of service; and386district managers who average13years of service.  Our management team has demonstrated the consistent ability to successfully execute our business plan and growth strategy by generating 20 consecutive years of record revenues and earnings and positive comparable store sales results since becoming a public company in April of 1993.



Growth Strategy



Aggressively Open New Stores:

We intend to continue to consolidate the fragmented automotive aftermarket.  During 2012, we opened


net, new stores, acquired


stores and we plan to open

approximately


net, new stores in 2013,

which will

increas

e

our penetration in existing markets and

allow for expansion

into new, contiguous markets.  The sites for these new stores have been identified, and to date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in locating suitable sites for construction of new

stores or identifying suitable acquisition targets for conversion to O'Reilly stores.  We typically open new stores either by (i) constructing a new facility or renovating an existing one on property we purchase or lease and stocking the new store with fixtures and inventory, (ii) acquiring an independently owned auto parts store, typically by the purchase of substantially all of the inventory and other assets (other than realty) of such store, or (iii) purchasing multi-store chains.  New store sites are strategically located in clusters within geographic areas that complement our distribution network in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising and distribution.  Other key factors we consider in the site selection process include population density and growth patterns, demographic lifestyle segmentation, age and per capita income, vehicle traffic counts, number and type of existing automotive repair facilities, competing auto parts stores within a pre-determined radius, and the operational strength of such competitors.



We target both small and large markets for expansion of our store network.  While we have faced, and expect to continue to face, aggressive competition in the more densely populated markets, we believe we have competed effectively, and are well positioned to continue to compete effectively, in such markets and to achieve our goal of continued profitable sales growth within these markets.  We also believe that with our dual market strategy, we are better able to operate stores in less densely populated areas, which would not otherwise support a national chain store selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket.  Consequently, we continue to pursue opening new stores in less densely populated market areas as part of our growth strategy.



Grow Sales in Existing Stores:

Profitable same store sales growth is also an important part of our growth strategy.  To achieve improved sales and profitability at existing O'Reilly stores, we continually strive to improve the service provided to our customers.  We believe that while competitive pricing is an essential component of successful growth in the automotive aftermarket business, it is customer satisfaction, whether of the DIY consumer or professional service provider, resulting from superior customer service that generates increased sales and profitability.



Selectively Pursue Strategic Acquisitions:

Although the automotive aftermarket industry is still highly fragmented, we believe the ability of national auto parts chains, such as ourselves, to operate more efficiently and proficiently than smaller independent operators will result in continued industry consolidation.  Thus, our intention is to continue to selectively pursue acquisition targets that will strengthen our position as a leading automotive aftermarket parts supplier in existing markets and provide a springboard into new markets.



Continually Enhance Store Design and Location:

Our current prototype store design features enhancements such as optimized square footage, higher ceilings, more convenient interior store layouts, improved in-store signage, brighter lighting, increased parking availability and dedicated counters to serve professional service providers, each designed to increase sales and operating efficiencies and enhance customer service.  We continually update the location and condition of our store network through systematic renovation and relocation of our existing stores to enhance store








performance.  During 2012, werelocated32stores and renovated70stores.  Webelieve that our ability to consistently achieve growth in same store sales is due in part to our commitment to maintaining an attractive store network, which is strategically located to best serve our customers.



Continually Enhance theGrowth andFunctionalityof Our E-CommerceWebsite:

Our user-friendly website,www.oreillyauto.com, allows our customers to search product and repair content, check our in-store availability of products, and place orders for either home delivery or in-store pickup. We continue to enhance the functionality of our website to provide our customers with a friendly and convenient shopping experience, as well as a robust product and repair content information resource, that will continue to build the O’Reilly Brand.



Team Members



As of January31, 2013, we employed 53,615 Team Members (33,931 full-time Team Members and 19,684 part-time Team Members), of whom45,180were employed at our stores,5,937were employed at our DCs and2,498were employed at our corporate and regional offices.  A union represents 49 stores (527 Team Members) in the Greater Bay Area in California, and has for many years.  In addition, approximately 71 Team Members who drive over-the-road trucks in two ofour DCs are represented by a labor union.  Except for these Team Members, our Team Members are not represented by labor unions.  Our traditionfor56 years has been to treat all of our Team Members with honesty and respect and to commit significant resources to instill in them our “Live Green” Culture, which emphasizes the importance of each Team Member’s contribution to the success of O’Reilly.  This focus on professionalism and fairness has created an industry-leading team and we consider our relations with our Team Members to be excellent.



Store Network



Store Locations and Size:

As a result of our dual market strategy, we are able to profitably operate in both large, densely populated markets and small, less densely populated areas that would not otherwise support a national chain selling primarily to the retail automotive aftermarket.  Our stores, on average, carry approximately23,500SKUs and average approximately7,200total square feet in size.  At December 31, 2012, we had a total of approximately29million square feet in our3,976stores.  Our stores are served primarily by the nearest DC, which averages142,000SKUs, but alsohave same-day access to the broad selection of inventory available at one of our 240 Hub stores, which, on average, carry approximately 42,000 SKUs and average approximately 10,000 square feetin size.



We believe that our stores are ''destination stores'' generating their own traffic rather than relying on traffic created by the presence of other stores in the immediate vicinity.  Consequently, most of our stores are freestanding buildings and prominent end caps situated on or near major traffic thoroughfares, and offer ample parking, easy customer access and are generally located in close proximity to our professional service provider customers.



The following table sets forth the geographic distribution and activity of our stores as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:







December 31, 20112012 Net, New andAcquired StoresDecember 31, 2012

StateStoreCount% of Total Store CountStoreChange% of Total Store ChangeStoreCount% of Total Store CountCumulative % of Total Store Count

Texas56315.1%218.9%58414.7%14.7%

California47412.7%93.8%48312.1%26.8%

Missouri1814.8%20.8%1834.6%31.4%

Georgia1614.3%62.5%1674.2%35.6%

Illinois1413.8%62.5%1473.7%39.3%

Washington1413.8%41.7%1453.6%42.9%

Tennessee1383.7%41.7%1423.6%46.5%

Arizona1283.4%20.8%1303.3%49.8%

North Carolina1203.2%104.2%1303.3%53.1%

Ohio1012.7%145.9%1152.9%56.0%

Oklahoma1123.0%-0.0%1122.8%58.8%

Alabama1123.0%-0.0%1122.8%61.6%

Michigan942.5%166.8%1102.8%64.4%

Minnesota1062.8%31.3%1092.7%67.1%

Arkansas992.6%20.8%1012.5%69.6%

Indiana892.4%62.5%952.4%72.0%

Louisiana872.3%31.3%902.3%74.3%

Wisconsin782.1%93.8%872.2%76.5%

Colorado842.2%-0.0%842.1%78.6%

Mississippi711.9%10.4%721.8%80.4%

Kansas711.9%10.4%721.8%82.2%

South Carolina611.6%114.7%721.8%84.0%

Iowa661.8%10.4%671.7%85.7%

Kentucky621.7%31.3%651.6%87.3%

Florida461.2%125.2%581.5%88.8%

Utah551.5%10.4%561.4%90.2%

Nevada441.2%41.7%481.2%91.4%

Oregon441.2%41.7%481.2%92.6%

New Mexico391.0%20.8%411.0%93.6%

Virginia250.7%156.5%401.0%94.6%

Maine-0.0%3514.9%350.9%95.5%

Idaho300.8%31.3%330.8%96.3%

Nebraska300.8%-0.0%300.8%97.1%

Montana230.6%10.4%240.6%97.7%

New Hampshire-0.0%187.6%180.5%98.2%

Wyoming160.4%-0.0%160.4%98.6%

North Dakota130.3%-0.0%130.3%98.9%

Alaska120.3%10.4%130.3%99.2%

Hawaii110.3%-0.0%110.3%99.5%

South Dakota110.3%-0.0%110.3%99.8%

West Virginia10.0%31.3%40.1%99.9%

Massachusetts-0.0%31.3%30.1%100.0%

Total3,740100.0%236100.0%3,976100.0%










Store Layout:

We utilize a computer-assisted store layout system to provide a uniform and consistent retail merchandise presentation and customize our hard-parts inventory assortment to meet the specific needs of a particular market area.  Front room merchandise is arranged to provide easy customer access, maximum selling space and to prominently display high-turnover products and accessories to customers.  To ensure the best customer experience possible, we have selectively implemented bilingual in-store signage based on the demographics in each store’s geographic area.  Aisle displays and end caps are used to feature high-demand,seasonal merchandise, new items and advertised specials.



Store Automation:

To enhance store-level operations, customer service and reliability, we use Linux servers and IBM I-Series computer systems in our stores.  These systems are linked with the I-Series computers located in each of our DCs.  Our point-of-salesystemprovidesimmediate access to our electronic catalog, part images, schematicsand pricing information by make, model and year of vehicle and use barcode scanning technology to price our merchandise.  This system speeds transaction times, reduces the customer’s checkout time, ensures accuracy and provides enhanced customer service.  Moreover, our store automation systems capture detailed sales information which assists in store management, strategic planning, inventory control and distribution efficiency.



New Store Site Selection:

In selecting sites for new stores, we seek to strategically locate store sites in clusters within geographic areas in order to achieve economies of scale in management, advertising and distribution.  Other key factors we consider in the site selection process are identified below:



·population density;

·demographics including age, ethnicity, life style and per capita income;

·market economic strength, retail draw and growth patterns;

·number, age and percent of makesand modelsof registered vehicles;

·the number, type and sales potential of existing automotive repair facilities;

·the number of auto parts stores and other competitors within a predetermined radius and the operational strength of such competitors;

·physical location, traffic count, size, economics and presentation of the site;

·financial review of adjacent existing locations; and








·the type and size of store that should be developed.



When entering new, more densely populated markets, we generally seek to initially open several stores within a short span of time in order to maximize the effect of initial promotional programs and achieve economies of scale.  After opening this initial cluster of new stores, we seek to begin penetrating the less densely populated surrounding areas.  This strategy enables us to achieve additional distribution and advertising efficiencies in each market.



Management Structure



Each of our stores is staffed with a store manager and one or more assistant managers, in addition to parts specialists, retail and/or installer service specialists and other positions required to meet the specific needs of each store.  Each of our386district managers has general supervisory responsibility for an average of10stores, which provides our stores witha strongamount of operational support.



Store and district managers complete a comprehensive training program to ensure each has a thorough understanding of customer service, leadership, inventory management and store profitability, as well as all other sales and operational aspects of our business model.  Storeand districtmanagers are also required to complete a structured training program that is specific to their position, including attending aweek-longmanager development program at the corporate headquarters in Springfield, Missouri.Storeand districtmanagers also receive continuous training through on-line assignments, field workshops and regional meetings.



We provide financial incentives to all store Team Members through incentive compensation programs.  Under our incentive compensation programs, base salary is augmented by incentive compensation based upon their individual and/or store’s sales and profitability.  In addition, each of our district managers participate in our stock option programand store managers may be eligible for a quarterly bonus program based on their store’s performance.We believe that our incentive compensation programs significantly increase the motivation and overall performance of our store Team Members and enhance our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.



Professional Parts People



We believe our highly trained team of Professional Parts People is essential in providing superior customer service to both DIY and professional service provider customers.  Because a significant portion of our business is from professional service provider customers, our Professional Parts People are required to behighly,technically proficient in automotive products.  In addition, we have found that the typical DIY customer often seeks assistance from a Professional Parts Person, particularly when purchasing hard parts.  The ability of our Professional Parts People to provide such assistance to the DIY customer creates a favorable impression and is a significant factor in generating repeat DIY business.



We screen prospective Team Members to identify highly motivated individuals who either have experience with automotive parts or repairs, or automotive aptitude.  New store Team Members go through a comprehensive orientationfocused onthe culture of our Company as well as the requirements for their specific job position.  Additionally, during their first year of employment, our parts specialists go through extensive automotive systems and product knowledge training to ensure they are able to provide the highest level of service to our customers.  Once all of the required training has been satisfied, our parts specialists become eligible to take the O’Reilly Certified Parts Professional test.  Passing the O’Reilly test helps prepare them to become certified by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE).



All of our stores have the ability to service professional service provider customers.  For this reason, select Team Members in each store complete extensive sales call training with their regional field sales manager.  Afterward, these Team Members spendat leastone day per week calling on existing and potential professional service provider customers.  Additionally, each Team Member engaged in such sales activities participates in quarterly advanced training programs for sales and business development.



Customer Service



We seek to provide our customers with an efficient and pleasant in-store experience by maintaining attractive stores in convenient locations with a wide selection of automotive products.  We believe that the satisfaction of DIY and professional service provider customers is substantially dependent upon our ability to provide, in a timely fashion, the specific automotive products requested.  Accordingly, each O'Reilly store carries a broad selection of automotive products designed to cover a wide range of vehicle applications.  We continuously refine the inventory levels and assortments carried ineach ofour stores, based in large part on the sales movement tracked by our inventory control system, market vehicle registration data, failure rates and management's assessment of the changes and trends in the marketplace.  We have no materialbackorders for the products we sell.



Our online ordering service provides enhanced customer service capabilities to our DIY and professional service provider customers.  Our program allows customers to view available parts and prices online, purchase parts online and/or either ship these purchases to their location or have these parts available for pick up in our local store.












Distribution Systems



We believe that our tiered distribution model provides industry-leading parts availability and store in-stock positions, while lowering our inventory carrying costs and controlling inventory.  Moreover, we believe that our ongoing, significant capital investments madein our DC networkallows us to efficiently service new stores that are planned to open in contiguous market areas as well as servicing our existing store network.  Our distribution expansion strategy complements our new store opening strategy by supporting newly established clusters of stores located in the regions surrounding each DC.  We currently have a total growth capacity of over 400 stores in our distribution center network,which will increase by 300 stores with the completion of our Lakeland, Florida DC in the first quarter of 2014.



Distribution Centers:

We currentlyoperate24DCs comprised of approximately8.6millionoperating square feet (see the “Properties” table in Item 2 ofthis Form 10-K for a detailed listing of DC operating square footages).  Our DCs electronically receive orders from computers located in each of our stores.  Our DCs stock anaverage of142,000SKUs and most DCs are linked to multiple other regional DCs’ inventory.  Our DCs provide five-night-a-week delivery, primarily via a Company-owned fleet, to all of our stores in the continental United States.  In addition, stores within a DC metropolitan area receive multiple daily deliveries from our DC “city counters”,mostof which receive this service seven days per week.  In addition, our Hub store network provides additional service throughout the week, and on weekends, to surrounding stores.



As part of our continuing efforts to enhance our distribution network in 2013 we plan to:



·continue to implement a voice picking technology in additional DCs;

·implement enhanced routing software to further enhance logistics efficiencies;

·continue to implement labor management software to improve DC productivity and overall operating efficiency;

·develop further automated paperless picking processes;

·improve proof of delivery systems to further increase the accuracy of product movement to our stores;

·continue to define and implement best practices in all DCs; and

·make proven, return-on-investment based capital enhancements to material handling equipment in DCs including conveyor systems, picking modules and lift equipment.



Hub stores:

We currently operate240strategically placed Hub stores.  In addition to serving DIY and professional service provider customers in their markets, Hub stores also provide delivery service to our other stores within the surrounding area access to an expanded selection of SKUs on a same-day basis.  Our Hub stores average approximately 10,000 square feet and carry an average of 42,000 SKUs.



Products and Purchasing



Our stores offer DIY and professional service provider customers a wide selection of brand name, house brandsand private label products for domestic and imported automobiles, vans and trucks.  Our merchandise generally consists of nationally recognized, well-advertised, premium name brand products such as AC Delco, Armor All, Bosch, BWD, Cardone, Castrol, Gates Rubber, Monroe, Moog, Pennzoil, Prestone, Quaker State, STP, Turtle Wax, Valvoline, Wagner, and Wix.  In addition to name brand products, our stores carry a wide variety of high-qualityhouse brands andprivate label products under our BestTest®, BrakeBest®, Import Direct®, Master Pro®, Micro-Gard®, Murray®,  Omnispark®, O’Reilly Auto Parts®, Precision®, Power Torque®, Super Start®, and Ultima® brands.  Ourhouse brand andprivate label products are produced by nationally recognized manufacturers and meet or exceed original equipment manufacturer specifications and provide a great combination of quality and value – a characteristic important to our DIY customers.



We have no long-term contractual purchase commitments with any of our vendors, nor have we experienced difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative supply sources for automotive parts.  We believe that alternative supply sources exist at substantially similar costs, for substantially all of the automotive products that we sell.  It is our policy to take advantage of payment and seasonal purchasing discounts offered by our vendors and to utilize extended dating terms available from vendors.Again in2012, we entered into various programs and arrangements with certain vendors that provided for extended dating and payment terms for inventory purchases.  As a whole, we consider our relationships with our vendors to be very good.



We purchase automotive products in substantial quantities from over500vendors, the five largest of which accounted for approximately25% of our total purchases in 2012.  Our largest vendor in 2012 accounted for approximately8% of our total purchases and the next four largest vendors each accounted for approximately3% to5% of such purchases.


















Marketing



Marketing to the DIY Customer:

We use an integrated marketing program, which includes television, radio, direct mail and newspaper distribution, in-store and online promotions, and sports and event sponsorships to aggressively attract DIY customers.  The marketing strategy we employ is highly effective and has led to a measurable increase in awareness of the O’Reilly Brand across our geographic footprint.  We utilize a combination of brand and product/price messaging to drive retail traffic and purchases, which frequently coincide with key sales events.



To stimulate sales among racing enthusiasts, who we believe individually spend more on automotive products than the general public, we sponsored multiple nationally-televised races and over1,500grassroots, local, and regional motorsports events throughout38states during 2012.  Wewere the title sponsor of twoNational Association for Stock Car Racing (“NASCAR”)National series events in Texas andfive National Hot Rod Association (“NHRA”) races fromCalifornia toNorth Carolina.



During the fall and winter months, we strategically sponsor National Collegiate Athletic Association (“NCAA”) basketball and the National Football League (“NFL”).  Our relationships with over50NCAA teams and tournaments have resulted in prominently-displayed O’Reilly logos on TV-visible signs throughout the season.



Through an expanded use of Spanish language radio, print, and outdooradvertising, as well as sponsorships of over45local and regional festivals and events, we demonstrated our commitment to increasing marketing efforts that are targeted toward the Hispanic auto parts consumer.



In 2012, we continued our dedicated problem/solution communication strategy, which encourages vehicle owners to perform regular maintenance as a way to save money and protect their automotive investment over the long-term.  This highly relevant message resonates with consumers and establishes O’Reilly as their source for the parts they need and excellent customer service.



Marketing to the Professional Service Provider Customer:

We have over470full-time O’Reilly sales representatives strategically located across our market areas as part of our First Call® program.  Each sales representative is dedicated solely to calling upon, selling to and servicing our professional service provider customers.  Targeted marketing materials such as flyers, quick reference guides and catalogs are produced and distributed on a regular basis to professional service providers, paint and body shops and fleet customers.  Our industry-leading First Call program enables our sales representatives, district managers, and store managers to provide excellent customer service to each of our professional service provider accounts by providing the products and services identified below:



·broad selection of merchandise at competitive prices

·dedicated Professional Service Specialists in our stores

·multiple, daily deliveries from our stores

·same-day or overnight access to an average of142,000SKUs throughseven daystore inventory replenishments

·separate service counter and phone line in our stores dedicated exclusively to service professional service providers

·trade credit for qualified accounts

·Mitchell shop management systems

·First Call Online, a dedicated Internet based catalog and ordering system designed to connect professional service providers directly to our inventory system

·training and seminars covering topics of interest, such as technical updates, safety and general business management

·access to a comprehensive inventory of products and equipment needed to operate and maintain their shop

·Certified Auto Repair Center Program, a program that provides professional service providers with business tools they can utilize to profitably grow and market their shops



Marketing to the Independently Owned Parts Store:

Along with the daily operation and management of the DCs and the distribution of automotive products to our stores, Ozark Automotive Distributors, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Ozark”), also sells automotive products directly to independently owned parts stores (“jobber stores”) throughout our trade areas.  These jobber stores are generally located in areas not directly serviced by an O'Reilly store.  Ozark administers a dedicated and distinct marketing program specifically targeted to jobber stores.



Approximately185jobber stores currently purchase automotive products from Ozark and participate in our Parts City Auto Parts program, our proprietary jobber service program.  As a participant in these programs, a jobber store, which meets certain financial and operational standards, is permitted to indicate its Parts City Auto Parts membership through the display of the respective logo that is owned by Ozark.  In return for a commitment to purchase automotive products from Ozark, we provide computer software for business management, competitive pricing, advertising, marketing and sales assistance to Parts City Auto Parts affiliate stores.














Pricing



We believe that a competitive pricing policy is essential to successfully operate in the automotive aftermarket business.  Product pricing is generally established to compete with the pricing policies of competitors in the market area served by each store.  Most automotive products that we sell are priced based upon a combination of competitor price comparisons and internal gross margin targets and are generally sold at a discount to the manufacturer’s suggested retail price with additional savings offered through volume discounts and special promotional pricing.  Consistent with our low price guarantee, each of our stores will match any verifiable price on any in-stock product of the same or comparable quality offered by our competitors in the same market area.



Customer Payments and Returns Policy



Our stores accept cash, checks, debit and credit cards.  We also grant credit to many professional service provider customers who meet our pre-established credit requirements.  Some of the factors considered in our pre-established credit requirements include customer creditworthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current economic and industry trends and changes in customer payment terms.  No customer accounted for ten percent or more of our consolidated net sales, nor do we have any dependence on any single customer.



We accept product returns for new products, core products and warranty/defective products.



INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT



The automotive aftermarket industry includes all products and services purchased for light- and heavy-duty vehicles after the original sale.  The total size of the automotive aftermarket is estimated to beapproximately$231billion, according to the Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association (“AAIA”).  This market is made up of four segments – labor share of professional service provider sales, auto parts share of professional service provider sales, DIY sales and tire sales.  O’Reilly’s addressable market within this industryis approximately $131billion, whichincludes the auto parts share of professional service provider sales and DIY sales.  We do not sell tires or performfor-feeautomotive repairs or installations.



Competition



We compete in both the DIY and professional service provider portions of the automotive aftermarket and are one of the largest specialty retailers within that market.  We compete primarily with the stores identified below:



·national retail and wholesale automotive parts chains (such as AutoZone, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, NAPA, CARQUEST and the Pep Boys - Manny, Moe and Jack, Inc.)

·regional retail and wholesale automotive parts chains

·independently owned parts stores

·wholesalers or jobber stores (some of which are associated with national automotive parts distributors or associations such as NAPA, CARQUEST, Bumper to Bumper and Auto Value)

·automobile dealers

·mass merchandisers that carry automotive replacement parts, maintenance items and accessories (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.)



We compete on the basis of customer service, which includes merchandise selection and availability, technical proficiency and helpfulness of store personnel, price, store layout and convenient and accessible store locations.  Our dual market strategy requires significant capital expenditures to support, such as the capital expenditures required for the distribution network, store network and inventory levels necessary for providing products to both the DIY and professional service provider portions of the automotive aftermarket.



Inflation and Seasonality



We have been successful, in many cases, in reducing the effects of merchandise cost increases principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective forward buying.  To the extent our acquisition cost increases due to base commodity price increases industry wide, we have typically been able to pass along these increased costs through higher retail prices for the affected products.  As a result, we do not believe our operations have been materially, adversely affected by inflation.



To some extent our business is seasonal, primarily as a result of the impact of weather conditions on customer buying patterns.  Store sales, profits and inventory levels have historically been higher in the second and third quarters (April through September) than in the first and fourth quarters (October through March) of the year.














Regulations



We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to our business, including those related to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, the recycling of batteries and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property.



As part of our operations, we handle hazardous materials in the ordinary course of business and our customers may bring hazardous materials onto our property in connection with, for example, our oil and battery recycling programs. We currently provide a recycling program for batteries and the collection of used lubricants at certain of our stores as a service to our customers pursuant to agreements with third-party vendors. The batteries and used lubricants are collected by our associates, deposited into vendor-supplied containers and pallets, and then disposed of by the third-party vendors. In general, our agreements with such vendors contain provisions that are designed to limit our potential liability under applicable environmental regulations for any damage or contamination, which may be caused by the batteries and lubricants to off-site properties (including as a result of waste disposal) and to our properties, when caused by the vendor.



Compliance with any such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date.  We cannot give any assurance, however, that we will not incur significant expenses in the future in order to comply with any such laws or regulations.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



The following paragraphs discuss information about our executive officers who are not also directors:



GregHenslee, age52, President and Chief Executive Officer, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for28years.  Mr. Henslee’s O’Reilly career started as a parts specialist, and during his first five years he served in several positions in retail store operations, including district manager.  From there he advanced to Computer Operations Manager, and over the next 15 years, he served as Director of Computer Operations/Loss Prevention, Vice President of Store Operations and as Senior Vice President.  In 1999, he became President of Merchandise, Distribution, Information Systems and Loss Prevention, and in 2005, he became Chief Executive Officer and Co-President.  Mr. Henslee continues to hold the position of Chief Executive Officer and as of January 1, 2013, he became President.



Thomas McFall,age42, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has been an O’Reilly Team Member since 2006 and has held his position as Chief Financial Officer during this time.  Mr. McFall’s primary areas of responsibility are Finance, Accounting,Information Systems,Risk Management and Human Resources.  Prior to joining O’Reilly, Mr. McFall held the position of Chief Financial Officer – Midwest Operation for CSK, following CSK’s acquisition of Murray’s Discount Auto Stores (“Murray’s”).  Mr. McFall served Murray’s for eight years as Controller, Vice President of Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, with direct responsibility for finance and accounting, distribution and logistics operations.  Prior to joining Murray’s, Mr. McFall was an Audit Manager with Ernst & Young, LLP in Detroit, Michigan.



JeffShaw, age50, Executive Vice President of Store Operations and Sales, has been an O'Reilly Team Member for24years.  Mr. Shaw's primary areas of responsibility are Store Operations and Sales.  His O'Reilly career started as a Parts Specialist, and has progressed through the roles of Store Manager, District Manager, Regional Manager and Vice President of the Southern division.  He advanced to Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2003 and Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations in 2004.  Mr. Shaw has held the position of Executive Vice President of Store Operations and Sales since January 1, 2013.



Ted F. Wise, age62, Executive Vice President of Expansion, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for42years.  Mr. Wise’s primary area of responsibility is Real Estate.  He began his O’Reilly career in sales in 1970, was promoted to Store Manager in 1973 and became our first District Manager in 1977.  He continued his progression with O’Reilly as Operations Manager, Vice President, Senior Vice President of Operations and Sales, and Executive Vice President.  He has been President of Sales, Operations and Real Estate since 1999, and in 2005 became Chief Operating Officer and Co-President.  Mr. Wise has held the position of Executive Vice President of Expansion since January 1, 2013.



Tony Bartholomew, age51, Senior Vice President of ProfessionalSales, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for30years.  Mr. Bartholomew’s primary area of responsibility is Professional Sales.  His O’Reilly career started as a Delivery Specialist and has progressed through Parts Specialist, Assistant Manager, Night Manager, Merchandising set up crew Supervisor, Equipment Sales Manager and Regional Field Sales Manager.  In 1998 Mr. Bartholomew became the Director of Southern Division Sales and then in 2003 assumed the role of Vice President of Professional Sales.  Mr. Bartholomew has held the position of Senior Vice President of Professional Sales since January 1, 2013.



StephenL.Jasinski, age47, Senior Vice President of Information Systems, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for20years.  Mr. Jasinksi’s primary area of responsibility is Information Systems.  His O’Reilly career started as a Programmer.  Mr. Jasinski advanced to Manager, responsible for retail, pricing and warehouse management programming development.  From there, he was promoted to Director of Systems Development and in early 2004, promoted to Vice President of Information Systems responsible for information








systems, PC support, store support services and telecommunications.  Mr. Jasinski has held the position of Senior Vice President of Information Systems since January 1, 2013.



Gregory D. Johnson, age47, Senior Vice President of Distribution Operations, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for30years.  Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is Distribution and Logistics.  He began his O’Reilly career as a part-time stocker in the Nashville DC in 1982 and advanced with O’Reilly as Retail Systems Manager, WMS Systems Development Manager, Director of Distribution and Vice President of Distribution.  He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since September 2007.



Randy Johnson, age57, Senior Vice President of Inventory Management, has been an O’Reilly Team Member for39years.  Mr. Johnson’s primary area of responsibility is Inventory Management, Purchasing, Logistics, and Store Design.  He began his career in a DC in 1973, working in the stocking, shipping and will call counter departments, and was promoted to Customer Service Manager in 1976.  He continued to progress with the development of the inventory control department as Inventory Control Manager and Vice President of Store Inventory Management. He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President of Inventory Management since October 2010.



MichaelSwearengin,age52, Senior Vice President of Merchandise, has been an O'Reilly Team Member for19years.  Mr. Swearengin's primary areas of responsibility are Merchandise, Pricing and Advertising.  His O'Reilly career started as an employee in a store later acquired by O’Reilly, he then became Product Manager, a position he held for four years.  From there he advanced to Senior Product Manager, Director of Merchandise and Vice President of Merchandise with responsibility for product mix and replenishment.  He has been in his current position as Senior Vice President since 2004.



SERVICE MARKS AND TRADEMARKS



We have registered, acquired and/or been assigned the following service marks and trademarks:  BESTEST®, BETTER PARTS. BETTER PRICES.®, BRAKEBEST®, CERTIFIED AUTO REPAIR®, CUSTOMIZE YOUR RIDE®, FIRST CALL®, FROM OUR STORE TO YOUR DOOR®, HI-LO®, IMPORT DIRECT®, IPOLITE®, MASTER PRO®, MASTER PRO REFINISHING®, MICRO-GARD®, MILES AHEAD®, MURRAY®, O®, OMNISPARK®, O’REILLY®, O’REILLY AUTO COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS®, O’REILLY AUTO PARTS PROFESSIONAL PARTS PEOPLE®, O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE®, O’REILLY RACING®, PARTNERSHIP NETWORK®, PARTS CITY®, PARTS CITY AUTO COLOR PROFESSIONAL PAINT PEOPLE®, PARTS CITY AUTO PARTS®, PARTS CITY TOOL BOX®, PARTS PAYOFF®, POWER TORQUE®, PRECISION®, REAL WORLD TRAINING®, SERIOUS ABOUT YOUR CAR…SO ARE WE!®, SUPER START®, TOOLBOX®, ULTIMA®, CSK PROSHOP®, FLAG®, KRAGEN AUTO PARTS®, MURRAY’S AUTO PARTS®, PRIORITY PARTS®, PROXONE®, SCHUCK’S®, WE’RE THE PLACE WITH ALL THE PARTS®, MURRAY’S VIP PROGRAM®, PAY N $AVE®.  Some of the service marks and trademarks listed above may also have a design associated therewith.  Each of the service marks and trademarks are in duration for as long as we continue to use and seek renewal of such marks – the duration of each of these service marks and trademarks is typically between five and ten years per renewal.  We believe that our business is not otherwise dependent upon any patent, trademark, service mark or copyright.



Solely for convenience, our service marks and trademarks may appear in this report without the ® or ™ symbol, which is not intended to indicate that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right to these service marks and trademarks.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our Internet address iswww.oreillyauto.com.  Interested readers can access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the Securities and Exchange Commission website atwww.sec.govand searching with our ticker symbol “ORLY”.  Such reports are generally available the day they are filed.  Upon request, we will furnish interested readers a paper copy of such reports free of charge by contacting Mark Merz, Director of External Reporting and Investor Relations, at 233 South Patterson Avenue, Springfield, Missouri, 65802.



