ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

International Paper Company (the “Company” or “International Paper,” which may also be referred to as “we” or
“us”) is a global paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Russia, Asia and
North Africa. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. Our home page on the Internet is www.internationalpaper.com. You can learn more about us by visiting
that site.

In the United States at December 31, 2010, the Company operated 20 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 144 converting and
packaging plants, 19 recycling plants and three bag facilities. Production facilities at December 31, 2010 in Europe, Asia, Latin America and South America included eight pulp, paper and packaging mills, 67 converting and packaging plants, and
two recycling plants. We distribute printing, packaging, graphic arts, maintenance and industrial products principally through over 224 distribution branches in the United States and 38 distribution branches located in Canada, Mexico and Asia. At
December 31, 2010, we owned or managed approximately 250,000 acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our
businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into five segments: Industrial Packaging; Printing Papers; Consumer Packaging; Distribution; and Forest Products. Beginning on January
1, 2011, the Forest Products business will no longer be reported by the Company as a separate industry segment due to the immateriality of the results of the remaining business on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. A description
of these business segments can be found on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s 50% equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate
reportable industry segment.

From 2006 through 2010, International Paper’s capital expenditures approximated $4.7 billion,
excluding

mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations
and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2010 was approximately $775 million and is expected to be approximately $1.2 to $1.3 billion in 2011. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 34 of
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions
can be found on pages 34 and 35 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 23 and 24 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site atwww.internationalpaper.comas
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered
part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY
SEGMENTS

The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and
Geographic Area on pages 89 through 91 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND U.S. OPERATIONS

The financial information concerning international and U.S. operations and export sales is
set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 90 and 91 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.









COMPETITION AND COSTSDespite the size of the Company’s manufacturing capacity for paper, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product lines
are large and fragmented. The major markets, both U.S. and non-U.S., in which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in
some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood and wood-fiber products.Many factors influence the
Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of price and cost on operating profits on pages 18 through 33 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 of Appendix II.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTIONThe Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper
distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging and graphic arts supplies. Sales offices are located throughout the United
States as well as internationally.DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTSThe Company’s principal products are described on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.









SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:

Sales Volumes by Product (1) (2)



In thousands of short tons201020092008Industrial PackagingCorrugated Packaging (3)7,5257,3135,298Containerboard (3)2,4582,2582,305Recycling (3)2,4862,280966Saturated Kraft176126170Bleached Kraft857282European Industrial Packaging1,0401,0461,123Asian Box (4)307149137Asian Distribution360465431Industrial Packaging14,43713,70910,512Printing PapersU.S. Uncoated Papers2,6952,8823,397European and Russian Uncoated Papers1,2351,3361,461Brazilian Uncoated Papers1,0811,007853Asian Uncoated Papers968127Uncoated Papers5,1075,3065,738Market Pulp (5)1,4221,5241,604Consumer PackagingU.S. Coated Paperboard1,3981,2421,591European Coated Paperboard351354311Asian Coated Paperboard870859550Other Consumer Packaging174169178Consumer Packaging2,7932,6242,630



(1)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.

(2)Sales volumes for divested businesses are included through the date of sale, except for discontinued operations.

(3)Includes Weyerhaeuser Company’s Containerboard, Packaging and Recycling (CBPR) business volumes from date of acquisition in August 2008.

(4)Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010.

(5)Includes internal sales to mills.







RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the
Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies.

We direct research and
development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching,
chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy
conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of
solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $12 million in 2010, $13 million in 2009 and $22 million in 2008. The decrease in cost beginning in 2009 reflects cost cutting measures.

We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also
license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non-U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We
derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

International Paper is subject to
extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid
adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of $62 million was spent in 2010 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure
environmentally sound management and disposal of

waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2011 for similar capital projects.

In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more
restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that over the next 12-18 months additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once implemented these rules could
require significant investments of capital and/or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper.

In June 2010, the EPA published four inter-related proposed rules commonly and collectively referred to as “Boiler MACT.” As proposed, these rules require owners of specified boilers to meet very strict
air emission standards for certain substances. The promulgation of these rules has been subject to litigation among various parties and the EPA over a period of several years. In late December 2010, the EPA filed a motion with the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia to further extend the time to promulgate the Boiler MACT rules for an additional 15 months to take into account the voluminous amount of new data EPA received in the comment period. On January 20, 2011, the
Court denied EPA’s request and granted only one additional month (until February 21, 2011) to complete the rulemaking. On that same day, EPA announced in a press release that it will issue rules by the court-imposed deadline but indicated
that the rules “will be significantly different” than previously proposed. Given EPA’s press release, International Paper cannot speculate on what the rules will require, or their impact on the amount or timing of any related future
capital expenditures. The amount we will spend for environmental control projects in future years will also depend on other new laws and regulations and changes in rules that are likely to be promulgated, such as NAAQSs.

Recognizing these many uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and other
regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control expenditures is
approximately $300 million for 2012 and approximately $350 million for 2013. When regulatory requirements regarding









Boiler MACT become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the Company’s environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will need time to assess fully the potential
impacts on our Company before we will be able to provide a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures.

CLIMATE CHANGE

Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which
called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub-national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse
gas reduction. These actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments.

While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to “underdeveloped
nations.” Three countries where we have operations, Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in
the future that may have a material effect on our operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity
around the post-2012 climate control regime, it is not possible at this time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Paper’s operations.

Under the European Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper had two sites covered
by the EUETS in 2010. While these measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2010, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2011, they may have a material adverse effect in the future.

The U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol nor have efforts in the U.S. Congress to legislate the control of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions been
successful. To date, the activity in the U.S. has been spearheaded by the U.S. EPA and, to some extent, by the states. Pursuant to its GHG Mandatory Reporting

Rule promulgated in 2009, EPA began a process to collect data on emitters of greater than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas per year. Twenty of our U.S. facilities are covered by and will make
reports as required under this new rule. We do not believe that the reporting rule will have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the EPA has indicated that it will propose New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for various industry
sectors which will limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. However, we anticipate that, at some future time, pulp
and paper sources will be subject to new NSPS rules. It is uncertain what impacts, if any, future NSPS will have on International Paper’s operations.

Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission
inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to California’s GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take
effect until 2012. Until the rules are finalized, it is unknown whether there will be any adverse impact on our California facility.

It
is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse
gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect adverse effects on International Paper, such as
higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects.

International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we
operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material adverse effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.









In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do
business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our
costs of compliance.

Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is
available at http://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 59,500 employees, 36,120 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees,
approximately 23,460 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,920 employees. Approximately 10,000 of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW).

International Paper and the USW entered into the 2007 Mill Agreement in July 2007, which established the framework for bargaining future local
labor contracts at 14 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2009, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2007 Mill Agreement the four mills we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008.

In April 2008, we entered into the 2008 Converting Agreement, which similarly establishes the framework for bargaining future local
labor contracts at 32 of our converting facilities. In March 2010, International Paper and the USW reached an agreement to integrate into the 2008 Converting Agreement the 20 facilities we acquired from Weyerhaeuser Company in August 2008.

These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, active
medical benefits, successorship, employment security and health and safety. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the 2007 Mill Agreement and 2008 Converting Agreement, the local facility
agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements.

During 2010, labor agreements for four mills expired. Three of the four, Port Hueneme, California, Red River, Louisiana and Riegelwood, North
Carolina are

covered by the 2007 Mill Agreement. Local agreements at Port Hueneme and Red River renewed with the same terms. Minor changes were negotiated at Courtland, Alabama (non-exempt union not covered
by the 2007 Mill Agreement) and Riegelwood.

During 2011, labor agreements that are scheduled to expire at the mills in Georgetown,
South Carolina, Riverdale (Selma), Alabama and Vicksburg, Mississippi will automatically renew under the terms of the 2007 Mill Agreement if new agreements are not reached.

With regard to converting facilities, during 2010 International Paper negotiated six contracts covering 13 locations represented by IBT District Council 2. Labor agreements were renewed at Omaha, Nebraska,
Springhill, Louisiana, Butler, Indiana, Forest Park, Georgia, Three Rivers, Michigan and Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania pursuant to the 2008 Converting Agreement. Labor agreements were negotiated at two additional converting facilities covered by the
2008 Converting Agreement (Magnolia, Mississippi and Bellmawr, New Jersey). Labor agreements also were reached at seven additional converting, distribution and consumer packaging locations that were not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement. A
one year extension was negotiated at Louisville, Kentucky.

Additionally during 2010, International Paper announced the shutdown of
facilities in Jonesboro, Arkansas, Newport News, Virginia, Spartanburg, North Carolina and Bellevue, Washington. Effects of the closings were bargained where applicable.

During 2011, 20 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated in 19 converting, distribution and consumer packaging facilities. Seven of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the 2008
Converting Agreement if new agreements are not reached. Thirteen of these agreements are not covered by the 2008 Converting Agreement.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

John V. Faraci, 61, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci
joined International Paper in 1974.

John N. Balboni, 62, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005.
Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978.









C. Cato Ealy, 54, senior vice president – corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a
director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992.

Tommy S. Joseph, 51, senior vice president – manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph
previously served as senior vice president – manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president – technology from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss
holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983.

Thomas G. Kadien, 54, senior vice president – consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president –xpedxfrom 2005 to 2009.
Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978.

Paul J. Karre, 58, senior vice president – human resources and communications
since May 2009. Mr. Karre previously served as vice president – human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974.

Mary A. Laschinger, 50, senior vice president since 2007 and president –xpedxsince January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president – IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia
from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992.

Tim S. Nicholls, 49, senior vice president and chief
financial officer since December 2007. Mr. Nicholls previously served as vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer – IP Europe from 2005 to
2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991.

Maximo Pacheco, 58, senior vice president since 2005 and president –
IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president – IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International
Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994.

Carol L. Roberts,
51, senior vice president – industrial packaging since 2008. Ms. Roberts previously served

as senior vice president – IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981.

Maura A. Smith, 55, senior vice president, general counsel, corporate secretary and global government relations since 2003. Ms. Smith joined
International Paper in 2003.

Mark S. Sutton, 49, senior vice president – printing and communications papers of the Americas since
January 2010. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president – supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president – supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president – strategic planning from 2005
to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984.

Terri L. Herrington, 55, vice president – finance and controller
since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance – consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice president – internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit
for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC),
and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Company’s 2006 Transformation Plan is presented in Note 10 Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities on page 71 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, statements found in Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are often identified by the words, “will,” “may,”
“should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “appear,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend,” and words of a similar nature. Such
statements reflect the current views of International Paper with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these
statements. Factors









which could cause actual results to differ relate to: (i) increases in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw
materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the
impairment of financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care costs;
(iv) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; and (v) whether we experience a material disruption at one of
our manufacturing facilities and risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

