ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL

International Paper Company (the “Company” or “International Paper,” which may also be referred to as “we” or “us”) is a global paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Russia, Asia and North Africa. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. Our home page on the Internet is www.internationalpaper.com. You can learn more about us by visiting that site.

In the United States atDecember 31, 2012, the Company operated28pulp, paper and packaging mills,187converting and packaging plants,18recycling plants andthreebag facilities. Production facilities atDecember 31, 2012in Europe, Asia, Latin America and South America included11pulp, paper and packaging mills,65converting and packaging plants, andtworecycling plants. We distribute printing, packaging, graphic arts, maintenance and industrial products principally through over88distribution branches in the United States and32distribution branches located in Canada, Mexico and Asia. AtDecember 31, 2012, we owned or managed approximately327,000acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into four segments: Industrial Packaging; Printing Papers; Consumer Packaging; and Distribution. Beginning January 1, 2011, the Forest Products business was no longer reported by the Company as a separate industry segment due to the immateriality of the results of the remaining business on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. A description of these business segments can be found on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s50%equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate reportable industry segment.

From 2008 through 2012, International Paper’s capital expenditures approximated$4.9 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs,



maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in2012was approximately$1.4 billionand is expected to be approximately$1.4 billionin2013. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 34 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 34 and 35 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 24 through 26 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site atwww.internationalpaper.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The financial information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 86 and 87 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND U.S. OPERATIONS

The financial information concerning international and U.S. operations and export sales is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on page 87 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.













COMPETITION AND COSTS

Despite the size of the Company’s manufacturing capacity for paper, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product lines are large and fragmented. The major markets, both U.S. and non-U.S., in which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood and wood-fiber products.

Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of price and cost on operating profits on pages 19 through 32 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 of Appendix II.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

The Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging, graphic arts supplies and maintenance and industrial products. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally.



DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company’s principal products are described on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.













SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for2012,2011and2010were as follows:

Sales Volumes by Product (1)



In thousands of short tons201220112010Industrial PackagingCorrugated Packaging (2)10,5237,4247,525Containerboard (2)3,2282,3712,458Recycling2,3492,4352,486Saturated Kraft166161176Gypsum/Release Kraft (2)135——Bleached Kraft1149585European Industrial Packaging1,0321,0471,040Asian Box (3)410444307Industrial Packaging17,95713,97714,077Printing PapersU.S. Uncoated Papers2,6172,6162,695European and Russian Uncoated Papers1,2861,2181,235Brazilian Uncoated Papers1,1651,1411,081Indian Uncoated Papers (4)24649—Printing Papers5,3145,0245,011Pulp (5)1,5931,4101,422Consumer PackagingU.S. Coated Paperboard1,5071,5601,572European Coated Paperboard372332351Asian Coated Paperboard1,059998870Consumer Packaging2,9382,8902,793

(1)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.

(2)Includes Temple-Inland volumes from date of acquisition in February 2012.

(3)Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010.

(4)Includes APPM volumes from date of acquisition in October 2011.

(5)Includes internal sales to mills.











RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies.

We direct research and development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was$13 millionin2012,$13 millionin2011and$12 millionin2010.

We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non-U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses.



ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. A total of$60 millionwas spent in2012for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately$90 millionin2013for similar capital projects, including expenditures associated with the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Boiler



MACT (maximum achievable control technology) rule. Projected capital expenditures for 2014 environmental capital projects are anticipated to be approximately$285 million, much of which is associated with the new Boiler MACT rule. Preliminary cost projections for 2015 environmental capital projects are estimated to be$300 million, much of which is again associated with Boiler MACT. In March 2011, the EPA published four inter-related final rules commonly and collectively referred to as “Boiler MACT.” As finalized, these rules required owners of specified boilers to meet very strict air emissions standards for certain substances. The rule was immediately subject to administrative reconsideration by the EPA and several lawsuits.On December 20, 2012, the EPA issued its final reconsidered Boiler MACT suite of rules. International Paper is actively analyzing the rules to determine, among other things, its costs and this process is in its early stages. As such, the projected capital expenditures for environmental capital projects represent our current best estimate of future expenditures with the recognition that the Boiler MACT analysis is in the early stages and subject to change.

In the U.S., the EPA proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section),  and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). The EPA has promulgated new NAAQSs for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and we anticipate that additional NAAQSs will also be forthcoming. Additionally, the EPA published Phase I of its Pulp and Paper National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP). To date, these regulations have not had a material impact on International Paper operations. However, once fully implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and/or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact.





CLIMATE CHANGE

In 1997, an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol  called for reductions of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations. While the U.S. and many other countries did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol, it has formed the basis for a range of international, national and sub-national proposals and regulations focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. Some of these regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments.

Although the Kyoto Protocol expired in 2012, a successor protocol is currently under negotiation at the international level. Several countries or geographic areas in which we operate, such as the EU, India, Brazil,











China and Morocco, have signaled they intend to continue to participate in an extended Kyoto process. While only the EU had actual emissions caps, some countries are enacting local programs to address climate change. Currently, these local programs do not appear to materially impact IP operations. Russia and the U.S. have not agreed to participate in the post-Kyoto process. Due to the lack of clarity around what post-Kyoto will look like, it is not possible at this time to estimate the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Paper's operations.  Under the European Union Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper has two sites covered by the EUETS. These measures did not have a material effect on our European operations in 2012, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2013 at current market prices for emission credits. Significant swings in market price associated with credits could impact European operations.

Some U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the



planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. One such state is California. International Paper does not have any sites currently subject to California's GHG regulatory plan. There may be indirect impacts from changing input costs (such as electricity) at some of our California converting operations but these have yet to manifest themselves in material impacts. We are monitoring proposed programs in other states.

It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects.

International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

In summary, regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance.

Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available athttp://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html.



EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had approximately70,000employees,42,000of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately27,500are hourly, with unions representing approximately18,000employees. Approximately12,000of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW).

In September 2012, International Paper negotiated the integration of four former Temple-Inland mills into the International Paper/USW Mill Master Agreement











expanding this Master to include 18 of our U.S. pulp, paper and packaging mills. In October 2012, we completed negotiations on the integration of 18 former Temple-Inland converting facilities into the International Paper/USW Converting Master Agreement expanding this Master to include 63 of our converting facilities. These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Master Agreements, cover several specific items, including but not limited to wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not covered by these agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the Master Agreements, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time of expiration. In October 2012, International Paper negotiated the integration of four former Temple-Inland converting facilities into the International Paper/District Council 2, International Brotherhood of Teamsters (DC2, IBT) Converting Master Agreement expanding this Master to include 16 of our converting facilities.

In addition, during 2012, 36 local labor agreements were negotiated at four mills, 23 converting facilities and nine distribution facilities.

During 2013, 32 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated: five mills, 23 converting and four distribution facilities. Twenty-five of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the Master Agreements if new agreements are not reached.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

John V. Faraci, 63, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974.

John N. Balboni, 64, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978.

C. Cato Ealy, 55, senior vice president – corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992.

William P. Hoel, 56, senior vice president, Container The Americas, since February 2012. Mr. Hoel previously served as vice president, Container The Americas, from 2005 until 2012, senior vice president, corporate sales and marketing, from 2004 until 2005, and vice president, Wood Products, from 2000 until 2004. Mr. Hoel joined International Paper in 1983.



Tommy S. Joseph, 53, senior vice president – manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president – manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February 2009 until December 2009, and vice president – technology from 2005 until February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss Holding Company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983.

Thomas G. Kadien, 56, senior vice president – consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president –xpedxfrom 2005 until 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mr. Kadien serves on the board of directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company.

Paul J. Karre, 60, senior vice president – human resources and communications since May 2009.

Mr. Karre previously served as vice president – human resources from 2000 until 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974.

Mary A. Laschinger, 52, senior vice president since 2007 and president –xpedxsince January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president – IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 until 2010. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Ms. Laschinger serves on the board of directors  of the Kellogg Company.

Tim S. Nicholls, 51, senior vice president – printing and communications papers of the Americas since November 2011. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer – IP Europe from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991.

Maximo Pacheco, 60, senior vice president since 2005 and president – IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January 2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president – IP do Brasil from 2004 until 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994.

Carol L. Roberts, 53, senior vice president and chief financial officer since November 2011. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president – industrial packaging from 2008 until 2011 and senior vice president – IP packaging solutions from 2005 until 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981.











Sharon R. Ryan, 53, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, and as vice president from March 2011 until May 2011. Ms. Ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

Mark S. Sutton, 51, senior vice president – industrial packaging since November 2011. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president – printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president – supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president – supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president – strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984.





RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Company’s 2006 Transformation Plan and the CBPR acquisition in 2008 is presented in Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 66 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical in nature may be considered “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words, “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “appear,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend,” and words of a similar nature. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management’s current views with respect to future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) the level of our indebtedness and increases in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including, but not limited to, changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the impairment of



financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care costs; (iv) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; (v) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities; (vi) risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture; (vii) our ability to achieve the benefits we expect from strategic acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail below in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.



