ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

International Paper Company (the “Company” or “International Paper,” which may also be referred to as “we” or
“us”) is a global paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Russia, Asia and
North Africa. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. Our home page on the Internet is www.internationalpaper.com. You can learn more about us by visiting
that site.

In the United States at December 31, 2011, the Company operated 20 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 142 converting and
packaging plants, 18 recycling plants and three bag facilities. Production facilities at December 31, 2011 in Europe, Asia, Latin America and South America included 11 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 64 converting and packaging plants, and two
recycling plants. We distribute printing, packaging, graphic arts, maintenance and industrial products principally through over 153 distribution branches in the United States and 36 distribution branches located in Canada, Mexico and Asia. At
December 31, 2011, we owned or managed approximately 325,000 acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our
businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into four segments: Industrial Packaging; Printing Papers; Consumer Packaging; and Distribution. Beginning January 1, 2011, the
Forest Products business is no longer reported by the Company as a separate industry segment due to the immateriality of the results of the remaining business on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. A description of these business
segments can be found on pages 28 and 29 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s 50% equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate reportable industry
segment.

From 2007 through 2011, International Paper’s capital expenditures approximated $4.8 billion, excluding

mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations
and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in 2011 was approximately $1.2 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, including spending at the legacy Temple-Inland, Inc. (Temple-Inland) facilities, in 2012.
You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 37 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 37 and 38 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 through 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by
reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations
section of our Internet Web site atwww.internationalpaper.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The financial
information concerning segments is set forth in Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on pages 94 and 95 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND U.S. OPERATIONS

The financial information concerning international and U.S. operations and export sales is set forth in









Note 18 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Area on page 95 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.COMPETITION AND COSTSDespite the size of the Company’s manufacturing capacity for paper, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product lines are large and fragmented. The major markets, both U.S. and
non-U.S., in which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and
against substitutes for wood and wood-fiber products.Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price,
cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of price and cost on operating profits on pages 20 through 35 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-3 of Appendix II.MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTIONThe Company sells paper, packaging
products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies
making paper, paperboard, packaging, graphic arts supplies and maintenance and industrial products. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally.DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTSThe Company’s principal
products are described on pages 28 and 29 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.









SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:

Sales Volumes by Product (1)



In thousands of short tons201120102009Industrial PackagingCorrugated Packaging7,4247,5257,313Containerboard2,3712,4582,258Recycling2,4352,4862,280Saturated Kraft161176126Bleached Kraft958572European Industrial Packaging1,0471,0401,046Asian Box (2)444307149Industrial Packaging13,97714,07713,244Printing PapersU.S. Uncoated Papers2,6162,6952,882European and Russian Uncoated Papers1,2181,2351,336Brazilian Uncoated Papers1,1411,0811,007Indian Uncoated Papers (3)4900Uncoated Papers5,0245,0115,225Market Pulp (4)1,4101,4221,524Consumer PackagingU.S. Coated Paperboard1,3751,3981,242European Coated Paperboard332351354Asian Coated Paperboard998870859Other Consumer Packaging185174169Consumer Packaging2,8902,7932,624



(1)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.

(2)Includes SCA Packaging volumes from date of acquisition in June 2010.

(3)Includes APPM volumes from date of acquisition in October 2011.

(4)Includes internal sales to mills.







RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the
Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies.

We direct research and
development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on
innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of
environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of
products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $13 million in 2011,
$12 million in 2010 and $13 million in 2009.

We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual
property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our
products are covered by U.S. and non-U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required
to support our businesses.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our
continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. A total of $60 million was spent in 2011 for capital projects to control environmental

releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately $90 million in 2012 for similar capital projects.

In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed or finalized a number of new rules, including
Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting (see Climate Change section), Boiler MACT (see below), and more restrictive National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQSs). During 2010, new NAAQSs were promulgated for nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur dioxide
(SO2) and we anticipate that additional NAAQSs will also be promulgated. Once
implemented these rules could require significant investments of capital and/or operational changes that could potentially have a material impact on International Paper.

Sierra Club v. Lisa P. Jackson, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, (Civil Action No. 11-1278),

In addition to Boiler MACT, on December 27, 2011, the EPA also issued a proposed rule to amend national emission standards for hazardous air
pollutants (NESHAP) for the pulp and paper industry. The









comment period for this proposed rule closes February 27, 2012, unless it is extended. We are currently reviewing the rule and determining what impacts it could have on our operations. While
we do not have firm cost estimates at this time, and recognizing the proposed rule is likely to change, the rule could have a significant adverse impact on the pulp and paper industry, including International Paper.

Recognizing these many significant uncertainties, our forecasts include an estimate of future expenditures that may be required for Boiler MACT and
other regulatory initiatives. These amounts represent our current best estimate of future expenditures, which we believe are likely to change once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer. Our preliminary estimate for environmental control
expenditures is approximately $105 million for 2013 and approximately $260 million for 2014. When regulatory requirements regarding Boiler MACT and the Pulp and Paper NESHAP become final, including likely subsequent legal challenges, the
Company’s environmental, manufacturing and legal professionals will assess fully the potential impacts on our Company to determine a more precise estimate of future environmental control expenditures.

CLIMATE CHANGE

Since 1997, when an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which called for reductions
of certain emissions that may contribute to increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, there have been a range of international, national and sub-national regulations proposed or implemented focusing on greenhouse gas reduction. These
actual or proposed regulations apply currently or will apply in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, manufacturing facilities or investments.

While the European Union (EU) has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the framework of the Kyoto Protocol does not apply to “underdeveloped nations.” Four countries where we have paper-making operations, India,
Brazil, Morocco, and China, are considered underdeveloped nations by the Kyoto Protocol. Although not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, Brazil and China may adopt greenhouse gas regulations in the future that may have a material effect on our
operations in these countries. Unless extended, the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. A successor to the Kyoto Protocol is under negotiation at the international level. Due to the lack of clarity around the post-2012 climate control regime, it is not
possible at this

time to estimate with any certainty the potential impacts of future international agreements on International Paper’s operations.

Under the European Union Emissions Trading System (EUETS), the EU has committed to greenhouse gas reductions. International Paper has two sites
covered by the EUETS. These measures did not have an adverse effect on our European operations in 2011, nor are they expected to have such an impact in 2012.

Some
U.S. states have considered legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas
cap-and-trade programs. One such state is California where International Paper has one site subject to California’s GHG regulatory plan. The final California rules are still being developed and do not take full effect until 2013. Until the
rules are finalized and implemented, it is unknown whether there will be any significant impact on our California facility.









It is difficult to predict whether passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory
initiatives by Congress or various U.S. states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, may have a material effect on our operations in
the U.S. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting
processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects.

International Paper has controls and procedures in place to
stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate to ensure we continue to assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material
effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

In summary,
regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased regulation relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible
to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance.

Additional information
regarding climate change and International Paper, including our carbon footprint, is available athttp://internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/Climate.html.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately
61,500 employees, 34,400 of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately 22,400 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 13,500 employees. Approximately 9,900 of the union employees are represented by the
United Steel Workers (USW).

In late March 2011, International Paper negotiated the 2011 Mill Master Agreement including 15 of our U.S.
pulp, paper and packaging mills. In November 2011, we completed negotiations on the 2012 Converting Master Agreement including 43 of our converting facilities.

These two agreements, the Mill and Converting Master Agreements, cover several specific items,

including but not limited to wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other items not
covered by these agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, then, under the Master Agreements, the local facility agreements will automatically renew with the same terms in effect at the time
of expiration.

During 2011, 26 local labor agreements were negotiated at three mills, 15 converting facilities and eight distribution
facilities. Twelve of the agreements were automatically renewed under the terms of the Master Agreements.

During 2012, 31 labor
agreements are scheduled to be negotiated: five mills, 15 converting and 11 distribution facilities. Fourteen of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the Master Agreements if new agreements are not reached.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

John V. Faraci, 62, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974.

John N. Balboni, 63, senior vice president and chief information officer since 2005. Mr. Balboni joined International Paper in 1978.

C. Cato Ealy, 55, senior vice president – corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of
its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992.

Tommy S. Joseph, 52, senior vice president –
manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president – manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February to December 2009, and vice president – technology
from 2005 to February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss Holding Company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983.

Thomas G. Kadien, 55, senior vice president – consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served
as senior vice president and president –xpedxfrom 2005 to 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978.

Paul
J. Karre, 59, senior vice president – human resources and communications since May 2009.









Mr. Karre previously served as vice president – human resources from 2000 to 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974.

Mary A. Laschinger, 51, senior vice president since 2007 and president –xpedxsince January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously
served as president – IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 to 2009. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992.

Tim S. Nicholls, 50, senior vice president – printing and communications papers of the Americas since November 2011. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer
from 2007 to 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer – IP Europe from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in
1991.

Maximo Pacheco, 59, senior vice president since 2005 and president – IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since January
2010. Mr. Pacheco previously served as president – IP do Brasil from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Pacheco is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim
Group. Mr. Pacheco joined International Paper in 1994.

Carol L. Roberts, 52, senior vice president and chief financial officer
since November 2011. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president – industrial packaging from 2008 to 2011 and senior vice president – IP packaging solutions from 2005 to 2008. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in
1981.

Sharon R. Ryan, 52, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously
served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, and as vice president from March 2011 until May 2011. Ms. Ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance
officer from 2009 until 2011, and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

Mark S. Sutton, 50, senior vice president – industrial packaging since November 2011. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice
president – printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president – supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president – supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice
president –

strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984.

Terri L. Herrington, 56, vice president – finance and controller since February 2011. Ms. Herrington previously served as vice president, finance – consumer packaging from 2009 to 2011 and vice
president – internal audit from 2007 to 2009. Ms. Herrington previously served as director of audit for finance and financial control for BP p.l.c. from 2003 to 2007. Ms. Herrington joined International Paper in 2007.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC),
and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Company’s 2006 Transformation Plan and the CBPR acquisition in 2008 is presented in
Note 10 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on page 74 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical in nature may be considered “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words, “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “appear,”
“project,” “estimate,” “intend,” and words of a similar nature. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management’s current views with respect to future events, which are subject to
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) the level of our
indebtedness and increases in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer
preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the impairment of financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by
recognized credit rating organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care









costs; (iv) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation;
(v) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities and risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture; (vi) risk and uncertainties associated with the divestitures required by the U.S.
Department of Justice consent decree that allows the Temple-Inland transaction to proceed; (vii) the failure to realize synergies and cost savings from the Temple-Inland transaction or delay in realization thereof; and (viii) our ability
to achieve the benefits we expect from all other strategic acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are
discussed in greater detail below in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

