ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL

International Paper Company (the “Company” or “International Paper,” which may also be referred to as “we” or “us”) is a global paper and packaging company that is complemented by an extensive North American merchant distribution system, with primary markets and manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Russia, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. Our home page on the Internet is www.internationalpaper.com. You can learn more about us by visiting that site.

In the United States, atDecember 31, 2013, the Company operated25pulp, paper and packaging mills,181converting and packaging plants,18recycling plants andthreebag facilities. Production facilities atDecember 31, 2013in Europe, Asia, Africa, India, Latin America and South America included16pulp, paper and packaging mills,72converting and packaging plants, andtworecycling plants. We distribute printing, packaging, graphic arts, maintenance and industrial products principally through over81distribution branches in the United States and17distribution branches located in Mexico and Asia. AtDecember 31, 2013, we owned or managed approximately332,000acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into four segments: Industrial Packaging; Printing Papers; Consumer Packaging; and Distribution. A description of these business segments can be found on pages 27 through 29 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s50%equity interest in Ilim Holding S.A. is also a separate reportable industry segment.



On January 28, 2014, we announced that International Paper, xpedx Holding Company (“SpinCo”), a company we recently formed to hold xpedx, the business of which comprises our Distribution segment, UWW Holdings, Inc. (“Unisource”) and related entities had entered into a merger agreement, a contribution and distribution agreement and related agreements, providing for the pro rata, tax-free, spin-off distribution of shares of common stock of SpinCo to International Paper’s shareholders and the merger of Unisource with and into SpinCo with SpinCo as the surviving company in the



merger. As a result of the spin-off distribution and the merger, International Paper’s shareholders will own approximately 51%, and the sole shareholder of Unisource will own approximately 49%, of the shares of common stock of SpinCo on a fully diluted basis. We anticipate that the spin-off distribution and the merger will be completed in mid-2014. You can find discussions of the transaction inItem 1A. Risk Factors- Risks Relating to Our Operations andItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Description of Industry Segments.

From 2009 through 2013, International Paper’s capital expenditures approximated$5.0 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. Capital spending for continuing operations in2013was approximately$1.2 billionand is expected to be approximately$1.4 billionin2014. You can find more information about capital expenditures on page 35 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 35 through 37 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 through 27 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our Internet Web site atwww.internationalpaper.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The financial information concerning segments is set forth inNote 19 Financial Information by Industry











Segment and Geographic Areaon pages 89 through 91 ofItem 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND U.S. OPERATIONSThe financial information concerning international and U.S. operations and export sales is set forth inNote 19 Financial Information by Industry Segment and Geographic Areaon page 91 ofItem 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.COMPETITION AND COSTSThe markets in the pulp, paper and packaging product lines are large and fragmented. The major markets, both U.S. and non-U.S., in which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood and wood-fiber products.Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of these factors on operating profits on pages 20 through 34 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 ofAppendix II.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTIONThe Company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. We own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by International Paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging, graphic arts supplies and maintenance and industrial products. Sales offices are located throughout the United States as well as internationally.DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTSThe Company’s principal products are described on pages 27 through 29 ofItem 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.













SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for2013,2012and2011were as follows:

Sales Volumes by Product (1)



In thousands of short tons201320122011Industrial PackagingNorth American Corrugated Packaging (2)10,39310,5237,424North American Containerboard (2)3,2733,2282,371North American Recycling2,3792,3492,435North American Saturated Kraft176166161North American Gypsum/Release Kraft (2)157135—North American Bleached Kraft13211495EMEA Industrial Packaging (3)1,3421,0321,047Asian Box416410444Brazilian Packaging (4)297——Industrial Packaging18,56517,95713,977Printing PapersU.S. Uncoated Papers2,5082,6172,616European and Russian Uncoated Papers1,4131,2861,218Brazilian Uncoated Papers1,1501,1651,141Indian Uncoated Papers23224649Uncoated Papers5,3035,3145,024Market Pulp (5)1,7111,5931,410Consumer PackagingNorth American Consumer Packaging1,5561,5071,560European and Russian Coated Paperboard355372332Asian Coated Paperboard1,4301,059998Consumer Packaging3,3412,9382,890



(1)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.

(2)Includes Temple-Inland volumes from date of acquisition in February 2012.

(3)Includes Turkish box plants beginning in Q1 2013 when a majority ownership was acquired.

(4)Includes Brazil Packaging from date of acquisition in mid- January 2013.

(5)Includes internal sales to mills.











RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several product laboratories. Additionally, the Company has an interest in ArborGen, Inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies.

We direct research and development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was$18 millionin2013,$13 millionin2012and$13 millionin2011.

We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non-U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses.



ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company spent$61 millionin2013for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend approximately$140 millionin2014for similar capital projects, including expenditures associated with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Boiler MACT (maximum achievable control technology)



regulations. Capital expenditures for 2015 environmental capital projects are anticipated to be approximately$160 million, including Boiler MACT costs. Capital expenditures for 2016 environmental capital projects are estimated to be$110 million, including Boiler MACT costs. On January 31, 2013, the EPA issued the final Boiler MACT suite of regulations. These regulations require owners of specified boilers to meet revised air emissions standards for certain substances. Several lawsuits have been filed to challenge all or portions of  the Boiler MACT regulations. As such, the projected capital expenditures for environmental capital projects represent our current best estimate of future expenditures with the recognition that the Boiler MACT regulations are subject to change.

In the U.S., air quality regulations finalized by the EPA during 2013 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company. To date, revisions to  National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and fine particulate (PM2.5) finalized between 2010 and 2012 have not had a material impact on the Company. Regulations addressing specific implementation issues related to the SO2 NAAQS are being developed by the EPA and are expected to be finalized during the next two years. Potentially material capital investment might be required in response to these emerging requirements.





CLIMATE CHANGE



Climate change refers to any significant change in the measure of the earth’s climatic conditions such as temperature, precipitation, or winds that persist for decades or longer.  Climate change can be caused by natural factors, such as changes in the sun’s intensity and ocean circulation, and human activities can also affect the composition of the earth’s atmosphere, such as from the burning of fossil fuels.  In an effort to mitigate the potential of climate change impacts from human activities, various international, national and sub-national (regional, state and local) governmental actions have been undertaken. Presently, these efforts have not materially impacted International Paper, but such efforts might have a material impact on the Company in the future.



International Efforts



In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol established emission reduction obligations for certain countries where the Company had and continues to have operations.  Though the Kyoto Protocol expired in 2012, several countries, and most notably the European Union (EU), extended their emissions commitments until 2020.  A successor program to the Kyoto Protocol is the subject of on-going international negotiations.  It is not yet clear if these negotiations will result in a new International











Climate Change Agreement and, if so, what form it will take.  Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible at this time to estimate the potential impacts of future international agreements on the Company.



To assist member countries in meeting obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU established and continues to operate an Emissions Trading System (EU ETS).  Currently, we have two sites directly subject to regulation under Phase III of the EU ETS, one in Poland and one in France.  Other sites that we operate in the EU experience indirect impacts of the EU ETS through purchased power pricing.  Neither the direct nor indirect impacts of the EU ETS have been material to the company, but they could be material to the company in the future depending on how allocation of and market prices for greenhouse gas (GHG) credits evolve over the coming years.

National Efforts

In the U.S., the Kyoto Protocol was not ratified and Congress has not passed GHG legislation.  The U.S. EPA has acted regulatorily to control GHGs from mobile sources (through transportation fuel efficiency standards) and requires reporting of GHGs from sources of GHGs greater than 25,000 tons per year.  In 2013, the Company reported to EPA the GHG emissions from 23 of our U.S. manufacturing sites and 7 landfills.  In 2010, EPA issued GHG regulations for new and modified sources under the New Source Review and Title V Operating Permit programs.  However, EPA deferred the applicability of these GHGs regulations to biomass emissions until the summer of 2014 to allow a Science Advisory Board (SAB) to provide input to EPA on how to incorporate the concept of carbon neutrality for biomass into their regulatory processes.  Before EPA could act on the SAB report, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that the EPA could not administratively defer regulation of biomass GHG emissions.  The mandate for the biomass deferral vacature has yet to be acted upon and thus it is unclear how EPA will incorporate the decision into climate change regulations.

EPA has also issued final regulations establishing New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for new Electrical Generating Units (EGUs).  This regulation is the first of several expected NSPSs that EPA will implement over the coming years.  Currently, the EPA has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards.  However, we anticipate that at some future time pulp and paper sources will be subject to new GHG NSPS rules.  It is unclear what impacts, if any, future GHG NSPS rules will have on the Company’s operations.







State, Regional and Local Measures

A few U.S. states have enacted or are considering legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. One such state is California. The Company does not have any sites currently subject to California's GHG regulatory plan. There may be indirect impacts from changing input costs (such as electricity) at some of our California converting operations but these have yet to manifest themselves in material impacts. Although we are monitoring proposed programs in other states, it is unclear what impacts, if any, state level GHG rules will have on the Company’s operations.

Summary

Regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased governmental action regarding greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects.  International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate.  We regularly assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper, including our emissions for 2013, are available in our Sustainability Report found at  http://www.internationalpaper.com/US/EN/Company/Sustainability/SustainabilityReport.html, though this information is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC.



EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately69,000employees,39,000of whom were located in the United States. Of the U.S. employees, approximately26,000are hourly, with unions representing approximately15,500employees. Approximately12,000of the union employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW).













International Paper and the USW have negotiated two master agreements covering our USW represented mills and converting facilities, respectively.  These master agreements cover several specific items, including wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security, and health and safety.  Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other subjects not covered by the master agreements.  If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, under the terms of the master agreements the local contracts will automatically renew with the same terms in effect.  The mill master agreement covers 18 of our U. S. pulp, paper, and packaging mills; the converting agreement includes 63 of our converting facilities.  In addition, International Paper is party to a master agreement with District Council 2, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, covering 16 additional converting facilities.

During 2013, 36 local labor agreements were negotiated at 13 mills, 21 converting facilities and two distribution facilities. In 2014, 50 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated, including seven mills, 30 converting facilities and 13 distribution facilities. Thirty-one of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the applicable master agreement if new agreements are not reached.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

John V. Faraci,64, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. Mr. Faraci joined International Paper in 1974.

C. Cato Ealy,57, senior vice president - corporate development since 2003. Mr. Ealy is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ealy joined International Paper in 1992.

William P. Hoel,57, senior vice president, Container The Americas, since February 2012. Mr. Hoel previously served as vice president, Container The Americas, from 2005 until 2012, senior vice president, corporate sales and marketing, from 2004 until 2005, and vice president, Wood Products, from 2000 until 2004. Mr. Hoel joined International Paper in 1983.

Tommy S. Joseph,54, senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, EHS&S and global sourcing since January 2010. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, EHS&S from February 2009 until December 2009, and vice president - technology from 2005 until February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss Holding Company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1983.



Thomas G. Kadien,57, senior vice president - consumer packaging and IP Asia since January 2010. Mr. Kadien previously served as senior vice president and president - xpedx from 2005 until 2009. Mr. Kadien joined International Paper in 1978. Mr. Kadien serves on the board of directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company.

Paul J. Karre,61, senior vice president - human resources and communications since May 2009.  Mr. Karre previously served as vice president - human resources from 2000 until 2009. Mr. Karre joined International Paper in 1974.

Mary A. Laschinger,53, senior vice president since 2007 and president - xpedx since January 2010. Ms. Laschinger previously served as president - IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia from 2005 until 2010. Ms. Laschinger joined International Paper in 1992. Ms. Laschinger serves on the board of directors of the Kellogg Company.

Tim S. Nicholls,52, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas since November 2011. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007. Mr. Nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer - IP Europe from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1991.

Jean-Michel Ribieras,51, senior vice president and president - IP Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia since June 2013. Mr. Ribieras previously served as president - IP Latin America from 2009 until 2013. Mr. Ribieras is a director of Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Ribieras joined International Paper in 1993.

Carol L. Roberts,54, senior vice president and chief financial officer since November 2011. Ms. Roberts previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging from 2008 until 2011 and senior vice president - IP packaging solutions from 2005 until 2008. Ms. Roberts serves on the board of directors of Alcoa Inc. and Ilim Holding S.A., a Swiss holding company in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Ms. Roberts joined International Paper in 1981.

Sharon R. Ryan,54, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, and as vice president from March 2011 until May 2011. Ms. Ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011,











and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

Mark S. Sutton,52, senior vice president - industrial packaging since November 2011. Mr. Sutton previously served as senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president - supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president - supply chain from 2007 until 2008. Mr. Sutton served as vice president - strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984.





RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. Information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the Company’s 2006 Transformation Plan and the CBPR acquisition in 2008 is presented inNote 11 Commitments and Contingent Liabilitieson page 68 and 69 ofItem 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS





experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities; (vi) risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture; (vii) the receipt of governmental and other approvals and favorable rulings associated with the agreed-upon transaction combining xpedx with Unisource, the successful fulfillment or waiver of all other closing conditions for the transaction without unexpected delays or conditions, and the successful closing of the transaction within the estimated timeframe; and (viii) our ability to achieve the benefits we expect from all strategic acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail below in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.



All financial information and statistical measures regarding our 50/50 Ilim joint venture in Russia (“Ilim”), other than historical International Paper Equity Earnings and dividends received by International Paper, have been prepared by the management of Ilim.   Ilim management has indicated that the financial information was prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and extracted from Ilim’s financial statements, but International Paper has not verified or audited any of this information. Any projected financial information and statistical measures reflect the current views of Ilim management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such projections.





