Item 1:Business

We
develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of video game machines and electronic devices (which we call “platforms”), including:



•Video game consoles, such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii,



•Personal computers, including the Apple Macintosh (we refer to personal computers and the Macintosh together as “PCs”),



•Mobile devices, such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones,



•Tablets and electronic readers, such as the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle, and



•The Internet, including social networking sites such as Facebook.

Our Strategy

Our business is rapidly transforming. Historically, we have derived most of
our sales from disk-based videogame products that are sold through retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products). Now, however, the fastest growing part of our business is delivering games directly to consumers through online and
wireless networks. For example:



•Players can access online-delivered content and services as add-ons to our console and PC games;



•Consumers can download our PC games (and those of other publishers) directly through our Origin online platform, as well as through third party online
download stores and services, including through Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace;



•We provide games for mobile devices and Internet-only games such as our social and Play4Free offerings that are available only through online and
wireless delivery; and



•We offer large-scale, massively multi-player online games and game services on a subscription basis.

At the same time, we have aggressively reduced the number of significant titles releases that we launch each year. In fiscal year 2009, we published over
60 packaged goods products, each of which was primarily a stand-alone game with few or no online features, and in each fiscal year since, we have launched fewer titles on consoles, while building additional online features, content and services
around each one of our titles. This strategy has resulted in an increase in revenue per title and in our overall revenue, year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis. In







fiscal year 2013, we plan to offer only 14 titles on video game consoles and PCs (each with additional online features, content and/or services) and we plan to offer more than 40 titles for
social, mobile and Play4Free platforms to take advantage of the growth opportunities on those platforms.

Brands

Our strategy is to turn our core intellectual properties (which we call “brands”) into year-round businesses
available on a range of platforms. We have created, licensed and acquired a strong portfolio of brands, which span a diverse range of categories, including action-adventure, casual, family, fantasy, first-person shooter, horror, science fiction,
role-playing, racing, simulation, social, sports, and strategy. Our portfolio of brands includes wholly-owned brands such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies. Our portfolio also includes brands
based on licensed intellectual property including sports-based brands such as Madden NFL and FIFA, and titles based on other popular brands such asStar Wars: The Old Republic.

A cornerstone of our brand strategy is to publish products that can be iterated, or sequeled, and that can be integrated across multiple game-playing devices. For example, a new edition of our most
popular sports product, FIFA Soccer, is released each year for consoles, PCs, mobile phones, tablets and Facebook. Other products, such as The Sims and Battlefield are sequeled on a less-frequent basis.

Platforms

Our
ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, another cornerstone of our business strategy. Technology advances
continue to create new platforms and distribution opportunities for interactive entertainment and these technologies impact the way consumers play video games. We expect that new platforms will continue to grow the consumer base for our products
while also providing competition for established video game platforms.

Further, we are investing significantly in our own distribution
platform, which consumers are already using to purchase and play games directly from us. Through online portals such as Origin and Play4Free, we are acquiring consumers of our games and game services directly, and establishing on-going relationships
with them. Through these relationships, we are engaging them in their favorite brands across a number of devices, allowing them to communicate with their friends, and inviting them to try our other game experiences. We have generated substantial
growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platforms.

Significant Business Developments in Fiscal Year 2012

Acquisition of PopCap Games, Inc. In August 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of PopCap Games Inc. (“PopCap”), a leading developer of casual games for mobile
devices, tablets, PCs, and social networking sites. This acquisition strengthens our position in casual and social gaming – two of the fastest growing segments of our sector with the addition of PopCap’s popular intellectual properties,
which include Bejeweled, Plants v. Zombies, Zuma, Peggle, and Bookworm.

Digital Content Distribution and Services.Consumers
are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of
online-delivered products and services including through our Origin platform. Our packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are
add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as
Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices.











Advances in mobile technology have
resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different
sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, micro-transactions and advertising-supported free-to-play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on
multiple devices. On a non-GAAP basis, our digital revenue has grown significantly from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2012 and the average revenue of our ten best-selling brands has continued to increase each year during this same period. Our
profitability has also increased as digital revenue becomes a greater portion of our business, reflecting the lower cost of digital revenue.

Growth of Casual and Social Games.The popularity of wireless and other emerging gaming platforms such as smart phones, tablets and social
networking sites, such as Facebook, has led to the growth of casual and social gaming. Casual and social games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization including free-to-play and micro-transaction business
models, and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic of younger and older players and more female players than video games played on console devices. These areas are among the fastest growing segments of our
sector and we have responded to this opportunity by developing casual and social games based on our established intellectual properties such as The Sims, FIFA, and Battlefield, and with our acquisition of PopCap. We expect sales of social and casual
games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business.

Global Operations

We were initially incorporated in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive
offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.

We operate
development studios (which develop products and perform other related functions) in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games at their own development and production studios.
Internationally, we conduct business through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America.

Our North America net revenue, which was primarily generated in the United States, was $1,991 million in fiscal year 2012, as compared to $1,836 million
in fiscal year 2011 and $2,025 million in fiscal year 2010. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States) increased by 23 percent to $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue in fiscal
year 2012, as compared to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2011 and as compared to $1,629 million, or 45 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2010. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable
to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal year 2012, revenue from sales ofFIFA 12andBattlefield 3represented approximately 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2011,
revenue from sales ofFIFA 11represented approximately 11 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal years 2010, no title accounted for 10 percent or more of our total net revenue.

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, research and development expenses were $1,212 million, $1,153 million and $1,229 million, respectively.

Our Operating Structure

Our studios and
development teams are organized around our Label structure. Each Label operates globally with dedicated game development and marketing teams. These Labels are supported by our Global Publishing Organization that is responsible for the distribution,
sales, and marketing of our products, including strategic







planning, operations, and manufacturing functions. In addition, our EA Digital division works with our studios and Global Publishing on digital marketing, customer acquisition and the cross
promotion of products and services.

EA Games

EA Games is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams, which together create an expansive and diverse portfolio of games and related content and services marketed under the EA brand
in categories such as action-adventure, role playing, racing and first-person shooter games. The EA Games portfolio is comprised primarily of wholly-owned intellectual properties and includes several established franchises such as Battlefield, Dead
Space, Medal of Honor and Need for Speed. EA Games titles are developed primarily at the following EA studios: Criterion, DICE, EA Los Angeles, Visceral, and EA Montreal.

EA Games also contracts with external game developers, to provide these developers with a variety of services including development assistance, publishing, and distribution of their games.

EA SPORTS

EA
SPORTS develops a collection of sports-based video games and related content and services marketed under the EA SPORTS brand. EA SPORTS games range from simulated sports titles with realistic graphics based on real-world sports leagues, players,
events and venues to more casual games with arcade-style gameplay and graphics. We seek to release new iterations of many of our EA SPORTS titles annually in connection with the commencement of a sports league’s season or a major sporting event
when appropriate. Our EA SPORTS franchises include FIFA, Fight Night, Madden NFL, NCAA Football, NHL Hockey, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour. EA SPORTS games are developed primarily at our EA Canada studio in Burnaby, British Columbia, and our EA Tiburon
studio located in Orlando, Florida.

BioWare

BioWare develops role-playing games, focused on rich stories, unforgettable characters and vast worlds to discover. BioWare’s portfolio includes the MMO role-playing gameStar Wars: The Old
Republicand the Mass Effect and Dragon Age franchises. BioWare operates in Texas, California, Canada, and Ireland.

Maxis

Maxis
(formerly EA Play) is focused on creating compelling games and related content and services for a mass audience. Maxis games are intended to be easily accessible for people of all ages, and to inspire fun and creativity. Maxis products include
wholly-owned franchises such as The Sims, SimCity, MySims, and Spore. In fiscal 2012, we released titles in The Sims 3 franchise, and together with Playfish,The Sims Socialgame on Facebook. Maxis oversees internal studios and development
teams located in California, Utah, Beijing, China and Guildford, England, and works with third-party developers.

PopCap

PopCap develops easy-to-learn games that everyone can enjoy. PopCap games, including hits such as Bejeweled, Plants vs. Zombies, Zuma,
Peggle, and Bookworm, are characterized by their mass appeal, flexible monetization, and fun and approachable gameplay. PopCap games are developed primarily in Seattle, Washington.

Social/Mobile Studios

Our Social/Mobile studios are focused on developing interactive games for play on mobile devices and Internet platforms, including social networking sites such as Facebook.

EA Mobile.Through EA Mobile, we are a leading global publisher of games for mobile devices. Our customers purchase and download
our games through a mobile carrier’s branded e-commerce service and mobile application storefronts accessed directly from their mobile devices. EA Mobile develops games for mobile devices at studios located in the United States, Canada,
Romania, Australia, India,











and Korea. Our focus is on producing high-quality, branded titles across a multitude of carriers, geographies, and mobile devices and tablets, including the Apple iPhone and iPad, and Google
Android compatible phones.

Playfish. Through Playfish, we offer free-to-play social games includingThe Sims
Social, Pet Society,EA Sports FIFA SuperstarsandMadden NFL Superstarsthat can be played on platforms such as Facebook, Google, iPhone and Android. Playfish generates revenue through sales of digital content and
Internet-based advertising.

Pogo. Through our Pogo online service, we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word
games on www.pogo.com, as well as on Facebook and other platforms. In addition to paid subscriptions, Pogo also generates revenue through Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content.

In addition, we have a licensing agreement with Hasbro, which provides us with the exclusive rights to create digital games for all major platforms based
on most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties, including MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE (for United States and Canada), YAHTZEE (excluding the Nordic countries), NERF, and LITTLEST PET SHOP. Hasbro games are developed by our EA Mobile, Pogo and
Social studios.

Competition

We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with providers of different forms of
entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global
operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.

Competition in Games for Console Devices

We compete directly with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which develop and publish software for their respective console platforms. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop
and publish video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs and handheld game players. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, THQ, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Disney are also involved in
software game publishing.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The marketplace for mobile games is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, and new
mobile application storefronts. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile
application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications are currently being offered by a wide range of competitors, including Capcom Mobile, DeNA, Gameloft, Glu Mobile, Gree, Rovio, and Zynga, and hundreds of
smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to intensify.

Competition in Online Gaming Services

The online (i.e., Internet-based) games market is characterized by frequent product introductions, new and evolving business models and new platforms. We expect new competitors to enter the market
and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing online games services. As a result, we expect competition in the online game services market to intensify.

Our competitors in the online games market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games including social networking game
companies. In the







MMO game business, our primary competitor is Activision Blizzard. Competing providers of other kinds of online games include Big Fish, Nexon, Tencent and Zynga and other providers of games on
social networking platforms such as Facebook.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software
code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when
they are playing our games – we call this form of intellectual property “content.”

We develop products and services from
wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios and obtain through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and
players’ associations, movie studios and performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In
addition, our products that play on game consoles and mobile devices, or other proprietary platforms may include technology that is owned by the device manufacturer or platform operator and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license
technology from other providers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights
from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual
property. We typically own the copyright to our software code and content, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as
appropriate.

As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute
our PC products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically
incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and
piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Relationships

Channel Partners

Sony. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into
with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disk-based software products and online content compatible with the PlayStation 3. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Sony to supply disks for
our products.

Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are
authorized to develop and distribute DVD-based software products and online content compatible with the Xbox 360.

Nintendo. Under the
terms of agreements we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute proprietary optical format disk products and online content compatible with the Wii. Pursuant to these agreements, we
engage Nintendo to supply Wii proprietary optical format disk products for our products.











Under the agreements with each of
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions
are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo, as the case may be, and there are no minimum purchase requirements under the agreements. Many key commercial terms of our
relationships with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – such as manufacturing terms, delivery times and approval conditions – are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. We pay the console manufacturers a
per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured and the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a percentage royalty on the revenue they derive from the distribution of our online content or services.

The platform license agreements also require us to indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim
against the manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by
us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The manufacturers are not obligated to enter into platform license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services.

Apple, Google and Other Mobile Carriers.We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through distribution partners worldwide,
including Apple and Google. Consumers download our applications on their mobile devices and if the application is not a “free-to-download” application, the distributor invoices them either a one-time or subscription fee. Our distribution
agreements establish the fees to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of
our applications.

Facebook.We have an agreement with Facebook that revises certain of Facebook’s standard terms and conditions
as applied to our use of the Facebook platform; the changes to the Facebook standard terms include the use and collection of data, operation of our game applications, including payments and promotions, as well as other provisions dealing with the
rights and obligations of Facebook and us. This agreement also requires the use of Facebook Credits as the payment method for our games on the Facebook platform; for each purchase of Facebook Credits in any of our games on the Facebook platform, we
share 30 percent of the revenue. The agreement with Facebook expires in October 2015.

Retailers

As our business becomes increasingly digital, our products and services are purchased over the Internet through Origin, our direct-to-consumer platform,
or through digital downloads from third party retailers or through mobile application storefronts.

In North America and Europe, our largest
markets, we sell packaged goods products to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Wal-Mart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop).

Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 15 percent, 16 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent and 12 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. did not exceed 10 percent
of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There are no
minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and either GameStop or Wal-Mart.

Content Licensors

Many of our products are based on or incorporate content and trademarks owned by others. For example, our products include rights licensed from third
parties, including major movie studios, publishers, artists, authors, celebrities, traditional game and toy companies, athletes and the major sports leagues and players’ associations.







Seasonality

Our business is highly seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales
volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our
online-enabled packaged goods and digital content over an extended period of time. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our
results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our
revenue recognition policies.

Government Regulation

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data
collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world.

Employees

As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 9,200 regular, full-time
employees, over 5,300 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large
measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 4 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union.

Executive Officers

The following table
sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 25, 2012:



NameAgePositionJohn S. Riccitiello52Chief Executive OfficerKenneth A. Barker45Interim Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerFrank D. Gibeau43President, EA LabelsPeter R. Moore57Chief Operating OfficerRajat Taneja47Chief Technology OfficerPatrick Söderlund38Executive Vice President, EA Games LabelAndrew Wilson37Executive Vice President, EA SPORTSKristian Segerstråle34Executive Vice President, DigitalNancy Smith59Executive Vice President, Global PublishingJoel Linzner60Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano45Executive Vice President and Chief Talent OfficerStephen G. Bené48Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary











Mr. Riccitiellohas served
as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Electronic Arts since April 2007. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners, a private equity fund. From October 1997 to April 2004, he served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Riccitiello served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the worldwide bakery division at Sara Lee Corporation. Before joining Sara Lee, he
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and has also held executive management positions at Haagen-Dazs, PepsiCo, Inc. and The Clorox Company. He serves on the Board of Directors of the University of California
Berkeley Haas School of Business and on the Board of Councilors of the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of California, Berkeley.

Mr. Barkerhas served as Interim Chief Financial Officer from February 2012 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since
April 2006. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate
Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a
B.A. degree in Accounting.

Mr. Gibeauwas named President, EA Labels in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President,
EA Games Label from June 2007. From September 2005 until June 2007, he was Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing. Mr. Gibeau has held various positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a
B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.

Mr. Moorewas named President,
Chief Operating Officer in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA SPORTS, from September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and
was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor’s degree from Keele
University, United Kingdom, and a Master’s degree from California State University, Long Beach.

Mr. Tanejahas served as
Chief Technology Officer since October 2011. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Taneja spent 15 years with Microsoft Corporation where he most recently served as Vice President, Commerce Division in 2011 and General Manager and Corporate
Vice President, Online Services Division from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Taneja earned his M.B.A. from Washington State University and his Electrical Engineering degree from Jadavpur University.

Mr. Söderlundwas named Executive Vice President, EA Games Label in August 2011. From December 2010 to July 2011 he served as Executive Vice President, Group General Manager –
FPS/Driving. Prior to that Mr. Söderlund held the position of Senior Vice President, EA Games Europe from September 2007 to December 2010 and the Chief Executive Officer of DICE until September 2007. Mr. Söderlund joined DICE in
2000. The studio was sold to Electronic Arts in October 2006.

Mr. Wilsonwas named Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS in August
2011. From March 2010 to August 2011, he served as Senior Vice President, EA SPORTS. Prior to that, Mr. Wilson held the position of Senior Vice President Global Online from September 2009 to March 2010 and Vice President, EA SPORTS from June
2008 to September 2009. Mr. Wilson has held various positions within the company since joining the Electronic Arts in May 2000.

Mr. Segerstrålehas served as Executive Vice President, Digital since January 2012. Prior to his current role,
Mr. Segerstråle was Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Playfish Limited from 2007 until November 2009 when the company was acquired by Electronic Arts. Thereafter, Mr. Segerstråle took the role of General Manager of
Electronic Arts’ Playfish business unit. Mr. Segerstråle served on the board of LOVEFiLM, a leading European digital film subscription service until its acquisition by Amazon in 2011. Mr. Segerstråle holds a B.A. degree in
Economics from Cambridge University and a M.A. degree in Economics from The London School of Economics.







Ms. Smithwas named Executive Vice President, Global Publishing in February
2010. From November 2008 until February 2010, Ms. Smith served Electronic Arts in a variety of capacities. From September 2005 until November 2008, she led The Sims Label, first as Executive Vice President and General Manager of The
Sims Franchise, and then as President of The Sims Label. Ms. Smith has held various positions since joining the company in 1984. Ms. Smith holds a B.S. degree in management and organizational behavior from the University of San
Francisco.

Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. Prior to joining
Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California,
Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.

Ms. Toledanowas named Executive Vice President and Chief Talent Officer in October 2011. From April 2007 until October 2011,
Ms. Toledano served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. From February 2006 until March 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Ms. Toledano serves on the
Board of Directors of the Society for Human Resource Management and Big City Mountaineers. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University.

Mr. Benéhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. Mr. Bené joined
EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a member of the Bar of the State of California.

Investor Information

Our annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge
on the Investor Relations section of our website athttp://ir.ea.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set
forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.













