Item 1:Business

We
develop, market, publish and distribute game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of video game machines and electronic devices (which we call “platforms”), including:



•Video game consoles, such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii,



•Personal computers, including the Apple Macintosh (we refer to personal computers and the Macintosh together as “PCs”),



•Mobile phones, such as the Apple iPhone, Google Android compatible phones, and feature phones,



•Tablets and electronic readers, such as the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle,



•The Internet, including on social networking sites such as Facebook, and



•Handheld game players such as the Sony PlayStation Portable (“PSP”) and Nintendo DS and 3DS.

Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. Technology advances
continue to create new platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming gaming services, and Internet-connected televisions. We expect that new platforms such as these will continue to grow the consumer base
for our products while also providing competition for established video game platforms.

Our products for videogame consoles, PCs and
handhelds are delivered on physical media (disks and cartridges) that are sold at retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products) or by us directly to consumers. We also deliver game content and services online for the platforms
listed above through digital downloads. In addition, we offer online delivered content and services as add-ons or as related features to our packaged goods products (e.g., add-on content or matchmaking services); while other games,
content and services that we offer, such as games for mobile devices, and Internet-only games, are available only through online delivery. We believe that online delivery of game content and services has become and will continue to be an
increasingly important part of our business.

Our games span a diverse range of categories, including action-adventure, casual, family,
fantasy, first-person shooter, horror, massively-multiplayer online role-playing, music, racing, simulation, sports, and strategy. We







have created, licensed and acquired a strong portfolio of intellectual property, which we market and sell to a variety of consumers. Our portfolio of wholly-owned properties includes established
brands such as Battlefield, Dead Space,Dragon Age, Mass Effect, Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, and The Sims. Our portfolio of games based on licensed intellectual property includes sports-based titles such as Madden NFL and FIFA, and titles
based on popular brands such as Harry Potter and Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties. Through our EA Partners business, we also publish or distribute video games that are developed by other companies, including the Crysis series
(developed by Crytek) and the Epic Games titleBulletstorm.

Another cornerstone of our strategy is to publish products that can be
iterated, or sequeled. For example, a new edition for most of our sports products, such as Madden NFL, is released each year. Other products, such as The Sims and Battlefield are sequeled on a less-frequent basis. We refer to these successful,
iterated product families as “franchises.” We also make add-on content available for purchase online or through expansion packs sold at retail for many of our products.

We develop our games using both internal and external resources. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, research and development expenses were $1,153 million, $1,229 million and
$1,359 million, respectively. We operate development studios (which develop products and perform other related functions) worldwide: BioWare (Canada and United States), Bright Light (United Kingdom), Criterion (United Kingdom), DICE (Sweden), EA
Canada, EA Los Angeles (United States), EA Mobile (Canada, Romania, Australia, India, and Korea), Maxis (United States), Playfish (Canada, United States, United Kingdom, China, Norway and Japan), EA Salt Lake City (United States), EA Seoul Studio
(Korea), EA Mythic (United States), Pogo (Canada, United States, China and India), The Sims Studio (United States), EA Tiburon (United States), and Visceral (United States, Canada, Australia, China).We have quality assurance functions
located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Romania, China, India and Korea and localization functions located in Spain, Germany, Singapore and Japan. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our
games at their own development and production studios.

Our North America net revenue, which was primarily generated in the United States, was
$1,836 million, as compared to $2,025 million in fiscal year 2010 and $2,412 million in fiscal year 2009. This trend reflects in part our strategy to focus on higher margin opportunities by significantly reducing the number of games that we publish
and/or distribute, in order to reduce costs and provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. It also reflects the impact of increased revenue deferrals as further explained in the “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Internationally, we conduct business through our
international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the
United States) increased by 8 percent to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2011, as compared to $1,629 million, or 45 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2010 and as compared to $1,800 million, or 43 percent
of total net revenue in fiscal year 2009. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal year 2011, revenue from sales ofFIFA 11represented approximately 11
percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal years 2010 and 2009, no title accounted for 10 percent or more of our total net revenue.

Significant Business Developments in Fiscal Year 2011

Stock Repurchase Program

In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors
had authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. As of March 31, 2011, we had repurchased $58 million of our common stock, or approximately 3 million shares, in the open market since
the commencement of the program, including pursuant to a pre-arranged stock trading plan.











Under the program, we may purchase
stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several
factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities, and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under the program and the repurchase program
may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time.

Fiscal 2011 Restructuring Plan

In fiscal year 2011, we announced a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long-term
profitability of our packaged goods business. Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we have had workforce reductions and facilities closures through
March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit activities were completed by March 31, 2011.

Digital Content
Distribution and Services

In fiscal year 2011, we significantly increased the revenues that we derive from online-delivered products
and services and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in fiscal year 2012 and beyond. Substantially all of our games contain digital content. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also
available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer
services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. In fiscal year 2011, we made strategic investments in
our digital business with the acquisition of Chillingo Limited, a leading publisher of games and software for mobile platforms. Additionally, we expect to launch the highly anticipated massively-multiplayer online role-playing gameStar Wars: The
Old Republic.

Our Operating Structure

We are organized around three operating Labels (EA Games, EA SPORTS and EA Play), our EA Interactive organization (EA Mobile, the combined results of Pogo and Playfish, and Hasbro) and our Global
Publishing Organization. Each Label and EA Interactive operates globally with dedicated game development and marketing teams. Global Publishing operates in three regions – North America, Europe and Asia – and is responsible for a number of
business functions such as: strategic planning, field marketing, sales, distribution and operations.

EA Games Label

The EA Games Label is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams, which together create an expansive and diverse
portfolio of games and related content and services marketed under the EA brand in categories such as action-adventure, role playing, racing and first-person shooter games. The EA Games portfolio is comprised primarily of wholly-owned intellectual
properties and includes several established franchises such as Battlefield, Dead Space, Dragon Age, Mass Effect, Medal of Honor and Need for Speed. EA Games also develops massively-multiplayer online role-playing games, which are persistent-state
virtual worlds where thousands of players can interact with one another (“MMOs”).Star Wars: The Old Republicis an example of an MMO currently in development at our BioWare Austin Studio. EA Games titles are developed primarily at
the following EA studios: BioWare (Edmonton, Canada; Austin, Texas; and Montreal, Canada), Criterion (Guildford, England), DICE (Stockholm, Sweden), EA Los Angeles, Visceral (Redwood City, California; Montreal, Canada; Shanghai, China; and
Melbourne, Australia), EA Mythic (Fairfax, Virginia), and EA Canada (Burnaby, Canada).

EA Games also includes the EA Partners group, which
contracts with external game developers, to provide these developers with a variety of services including development assistance, publishing, and distribution of their games.







EA SPORTS Label

The EA SPORTS Label develops a collection of sports-based video games and related content and services marketed under the EA SPORTS brand. EA SPORTS games range from simulated sports titles with realistic
graphics based on real-world sports leagues, players, events and venues to more casual games with arcade-style gameplay and graphics. We seek to release new iterations of many of our EA SPORTS titles annually in connection with the commencement of a
sports league’s season or a major sporting event when appropriate. Our EA SPORTS franchises include FIFA, Fight Night, Madden NFL, NCAA Football, NHL Hockey, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour. EA SPORTS games are developed primarily at our EA Canada
studio in Burnaby, British Columbia, and our EA Tiburon studio located in Orlando, Florida.

EA Play Label

The EA Play Label is focused on creating compelling games and related content and services for a mass audience. EA Play games are
intended to be easily accessible for people of all ages, and to inspire fun and creativity. EA Play Label products include wholly-owned franchises such as The Sims, SimCity, MySims, and Spore. The EA Play Label also develops Harry Potter videogames
under license from Warner Bros. Our EA Play Label oversees internal studios and development teams located in California, Utah and Guildford, England, and works with third-party developers.

EA Interactive

EA Interactive is focused on interactive games for play on the Internet and mobile devices. EA Interactive is comprised of EA Mobile, the combined results
of Pogo and Playfish, and Hasbro.



•EA Mobile.Through EA Mobile, we are a leading global publisher of games for mobile devices. Our customers purchase and
download our games through a mobile carrier’s branded e-commerce service and mobile application storefronts accessed directly from their mobile devices. EA Mobile develops games for mobile devices internally at studios located in Canada,
Romania, Australia, India, and Korea. We also contract with third parties located in the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore, and China to develop games that will be produced by EA Mobile. Our focus is on producing high-quality, branded titles
across a multitude of carriers, geographies, and mobile devices, including the Apple iPhone and iPad, Google Android compatible phones, and feature phones. In October 2010, we acquired Chillingo, a leading mobile games publisher based in the United
Kingdom. Chillingo’s titles include hits such asCut the RopeandAngry Birds.



•Playfish and Pogo.    Through Playfish we offer free-to-play social games includingPet Society,Restaurant
City,EA Sports FIFA SuperstarsandMadden NFL Superstarsthat can be played on platforms such as Facebook, MySpace, Google, Bebo, iPhone, and Android. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately 35.7 million monthly
active players across 40 applications. Playfish generates revenue through sales of digital content and Internet-based advertising. Through our Pogo online service, we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word games on www.pogo.com, as well as
on Facebook. In addition to paid subscriptions, Pogo also generates revenue through Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content.



•Hasbro.We have a long-term strategic licensing agreement with Hasbro, which provides us with the exclusive rights to
create digital games for all major platforms based on most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties, including MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE (for United States and Canada), YAHTZEE (excluding the Nordic countries), NERF, and LITTLEST PET SHOP.

Global Publishing Organization

Global Publishing is responsible for the distribution, sales, and marketing of our products, including strategic planning, operations, and manufacturing functions.











Competition

We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with providers of different forms of
entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global
operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.

Competition in Sales of Packaged Goods

The packaged goods video game business is characterized by the frequent launch of new games, which may be sequels of popular game franchises, or newly introduced game concepts. There is also rapid
technological innovation in the packaged goods game business as competing companies continually improve their use of the powerful platforms on which games are designed to run, and extend the game experience through additional content and online
services (such as matchmaking and multiplayer functionality). Competition is also based on product quality and features, timing of product releases, brand-name recognition, availability and quality of in-game content, access to distribution
channels, effectiveness of marketing and price.

For sales of packaged goods, we compete directly with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of
which develop and publish software for their respective console platforms. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop and publish video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs and handheld game players. These competitors
include Activision Blizzard, Atari, Capcom, Koei, Konami, LucasArts, Namco, Sega, Take-Two Interactive, THQ, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Fox, Disney, Time Warner, and Viacom are also involved in software game publishing.

Due in large part to the repurchase and sale of used video games by retailers, many of our console games are experiencing sales cycles that
are shorter than in the past. To mitigate this trend, we offer our consumers on-going services, such as multiplayer capability and additional content, to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after
their initial purchase.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The marketplace for mobile games is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, and new
mobile application storefronts. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile
application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications are currently being offered by a wide range of competitors, including Capcom Mobile, Gameloft, Glu Mobile, ngmoco, PopCap and Zynga, and hundreds of
smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to intensify.

Competition in Online Gaming Services

The online (i.e., Internet-based) games market is characterized by frequent product introductions, new and evolving business models and new platforms. As the proportion of households with a
broadband connection continues to grow, we expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing online games services. As a result, we expect competition in the online game services market
to intensify.

Our current and potential competitors in the online games market include major media companies, traditional video game
publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games including social networking game companies. In the massively multiplayer online game business, our competitors include Activision







Blizzard, Atari, NC Soft, and Sony. Competing providers of other kinds of online games include AOL, Big Fish, MSN, Nexon, Popcap, Real, Yahoo!, and Zynga and other providers of games on social
networking platforms such as Facebook.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software
code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when
they are playing our games – we call this form of intellectual property “content.”

We develop games from wholly-owned
intellectual properties we create within our own studios and obtain through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and players’
associations, movie studios and performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, our
products that play on game consoles, handhelds and mobile devices include technology that is owned by the console or mobile device manufacturer and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console
and mobile device manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights
from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual
property. We typically own the copyright to the software code, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute our PC
products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate
technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including
monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Relationships

Console Manufacturers

Sony.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disk-based
software products and online content compatible with the PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3 and PSP. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Sony to supply PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3 and PSP disks for our products.

Microsoft.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are
authorized to develop and distribute DVD-based software products and online content compatible with the Xbox 360.

Nintendo.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, we are authorized
to develop and distribute proprietary optical format disk products and cartridges and online content compatible with the Wii and the Nintendo DS and 3DS. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Nintendo to supply Wii proprietary optical format disk
products and Nintendo DS and 3DS cartridges for our products.











Under the agreements with each of
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions
are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo, as the case may be, and there are no minimum purchase requirements under the agreements. Many key commercial terms of our
relationships with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – such as manufacturing terms, delivery times and approval conditions – are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. We pay the console manufacturers a
per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured or a percentage royalty on the revenue we derive from downloaded content.

The platform license
agreements also require us to indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the manufacturer involving the development, marketing, sale, or use of our games, including any claims for
copyright or trademark infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become
insolvent.

Retailers

The console, handheld and PC games that we publish are made available to consumers as packaged goods (usually on Blu-ray Disc, CD, DVD, cartridge or Universal Media Disc format) that are typically sold by
retailers (including online retailers, such as Amazon). In North America and Europe, our largest markets, we sell these packaged goods products primarily to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Wal-Mart), electronics specialty stores
(such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop). Many of our products and related content (such as booster packs, expansion packs and smaller pieces of game content) can also be purchased over the Internet through digital
download or through mobile application storefronts accessed directly from videogame consoles or mobile devices.

Our direct sales to GameStop
Corp. represented approximately 16 percent, 16 percent and 14 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent, 12 percent and 14 percent
of total net revenue in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There
are no minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and either GameStop or Wal-Mart.

Mobile Carriers

We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through more than 320 distribution partners in over 55 countries. Consumers
download our applications on their mobile devices and if the application is not a “free-to-download” application, the distributor invoices them either a one-time or monthly subscription fee. Our distribution agreements establish the fees
to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications.

Content Licensors

Many of our products are based on or incorporate content and trademarks owned by others. For example, our products include rights licensed from third
parties, including major movie studios, publishers, artists, authors, celebrities, traditional game and toy companies, athletes and the major sports leagues and players’ associations.

EA Partners

Through our EA Partners group, we team with external game developers to provide these developers with a variety of services including development
assistance, publishing, and distribution. For example, through agreements with Crytek and Epic Games, we have releasedCrysis 2andBulletstorm,respectively.







Inventory, Working Capital, Backlog, Manufacturing and Suppliers

We manage inventory by communicating with our customers prior to the release of our products, and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on
a product-by-product and territory-by-territory basis. Historically, we have experienced high turnover of our products, and the lead times on re-orders of our products are generally two to three weeks. Further, as discussed in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we have practices in place with our customers (such as price protection) that reduce product returns.

We typically ship orders immediately upon receipt of the order. To the extent that any backlog may or may not exist at the end of a reporting period, it
would be an unreliable indicator of future results of any period.

In many instances, we are able to acquire materials on a volume-discount
basis. We have multiple potential sources of supply for most materials, except for the disk or cartridge component of our PLAYSTATION 3, PlayStation 2, PSP, Wii and Nintendo DS and 3DS products.

Seasonality

Our business is highly
seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally
follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content over an extended
period of time (generally six months). As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results can also vary based on a number of
factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our revenue recognition policies.

Employees

As of March 31, 2011, we
had approximately 7,600 regular, full-time employees, over 4,500 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and
that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 3 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a
union.

Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 24, 2011:



NameAgePositionJohn S. Riccitiello51Chief Executive OfficerEric F. Brown46Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerFrank D. Gibeau42President, EA Games LabelPeter R. Moore56President, EA SPORTS LabelJeff Karp46Executive Vice President, EA Play LabelNancy Smith57Executive Vice President, Global PublishingJoel Linzner59Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano44Executive Vice President, Human Resources and FacilitiesKenneth A. Barker44Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerStephen G. Bené47Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary











Mr. Riccitiellohas served
as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Electronic Arts since April 2007. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners, a private equity fund. From October 1997 to April 2004, he served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Riccitiello served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the worldwide bakery division at Sara Lee Corporation. Before joining Sara Lee, he
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and has also held executive management positions at Haagen-Dazs, PepsiCo, Inc. and The Clorox Company. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of
California, Berkeley. Mr. Riccitiello served as a director of Hyperion Solutions Corporation from July 2002 to April 2007. He serves on the Board of Directors of the UC Berkeley Haas School of Business and on the Board of Councilors of the USC
School of Cinematic Arts.

Mr. Brownhas served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2008. Prior to
joining Electronic Arts, he served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of McAfee, Inc., a security technology company from March 2006 until March 2008. From January 2005 until March 2006, Mr. Brown was McAfee’s Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Financial Officer of MicroStrategy Incorporated, a business intelligence software provider, from 2000 until 2004. Mr. Brown serves on the Board of
Directors of Electronics For Imaging, Inc. Mr. Brown received an M.B.A. from the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.S. in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Mr. Gibeauwas named President, EA Games Label in June 2007. Prior to that time, he had served as Executive Vice President, General Manager,
North America Publishing beginning in September 2005. From 2002 until September 2005, he was Senior Vice President of North American Marketing. Mr. Gibeau has held various publishing positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau
holds a B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.

Mr. Moorewas named
President, EA SPORTS, in September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment
Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Prior to joining Microsoft, Mr. Moore was President and Chief Operating Officer of SEGA of America, where he was
responsible for overseeing SEGA’s video game business in North America. Before joining SEGA, Mr. Moore was Senior Vice President of Marketing at Reebok International Ltd. Mr. Moore serves on the Board of Directors for Timberland
Company. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor’s degree from Keele University, United Kingdom, and a Master’s degree from California State University, Long Beach.

Mr. Karpwas named Executive Vice President, EA Play Label in April 2011. From May 2009 to March 2011, Mr. Karp served as the Chief Revenue Officer for the EA Games Label. From October
2008 to May 2009, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of MEVIO. From March 2006 to October 2008, he served as Senior Vice President of Marketing Worldwide for Electronic Arts. Mr. Karp holds a B.S. degree in Communications from Arizona
State University.

Ms. Smithwas named Executive Vice President, Global Publishing in February 2010. From November 2008
until February 2010, Ms. Smith served Electronic Arts in a variety of capacities. From September 2005 until November 2008, she led The Sims Label, first as Executive Vice President and General Manager of The Sims Franchise, and then as
President of The Sims Label. From March 1998 until September 2005, she served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, North American Publishing. From 1984 to March 1998, Ms. Smith held a variety of positions within the sales
organization of Electronic Arts. Ms. Smith holds a B.S. degree in management and organizational behavior from the University of San Francisco.

Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. From April 2004 to March 2005, he served as Senior Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs.
From October 2002 to April 2004, Mr. Linzner held the position of Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Affairs and from July 1999 to October 2002, he held the position of Vice President of Worldwide Business Affairs. Prior to joining







Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D.
from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals and several United States District Courts.

Ms. Toledanohas served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and
Facilities since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Ms. Toledano worked at Siebel Systems, Inc. from July
2002 to February 2006 where she was Senior Vice President of Human Resources. From February 1996 to June 2002, she served in a number of positions in Human Resources for Microsoft. Ms. Toledano also serves on the Board of Directors of the
Society of Human Resources Management. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University.

Mr. Barkerhas served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting
Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior
to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in Accounting.

Mr. Benéhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. From April 2004 to October
2004, Mr. Bené held the position of Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and from June 2003 to April 2004, he held the position of Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to June 2003,
Mr. Bené had served as internal legal counsel since joining EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a
member of the Bar of the State of California.

Investor Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website athttp://ir.ea.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.













