Item 1:Business

We
develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including:



•Video game consoles such as the
PLAYSTATION®3, Microsoft Xbox 360™ and Nintendo Wii™,



•Personal computers, including the Macintosh (we refer to personal computers and the Macintosh together as “PCs”),



•Handheld game players such as the
PlayStation®Portable (“PSP™”) and Nintendo DS™, and



•Mobile devices, such as cellular phones and smart phones, including the Apple iPhone™.

Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. Historically, there have
been multiple video game consoles and handheld game players available to consumers, and there has been vigorous competition among these platforms for consumer acceptance. In fiscal year 2010, the platforms for which we produced the most software
products were:



PlatformNumber of titles developed andpublished by EA in fiscal year 
2010Mobile48Xbox 36022PLAYSTATION 321Wii19PC16Nintendo DS16PSP10PlayStation 26

Our products for videogame consoles, PCs
and handhelds are delivered on physical media (disks and cartridges) that are sold at retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products). We also deliver game content and services online, directly to consumers, for the platforms
listed above. Some online delivered content and services are add-ons or are related to our packaged goods products (e.g., add-on content or matchmaking services); while









other games, content and services that we offer, such as games for mobile devices, and Internet-only games, are available only through online delivery. We believe that online delivery of game
content and services will become an increasingly important part of our business over time.

Our games span a diverse range
of categories, including action-adventure, casual, sports, family, fantasy, racing, music, massively-multiplayer online role-playing, simulation and strategy. We have created, licensed and acquired a strong portfolio of intellectual property, which
we market and sell to a variety of consumers. Our portfolio of wholly-owned properties includes established brands such as Need for Speed™, The Sims™, Spore™, Dead Space™,Mass Effect™ and Battlefield™,and newly launched properties in fiscal year 2010 such asEA SPORTS Active™, Dragon Age™: Origins,andDante’s Inferno™. Our portfolio of games based on licensed intellectual property includes
sports-based titles such as Madden NFL Football, FIFA Soccer and Tiger Woods PGA Tour®, and titles based on
popular brands such as Harry Potter™ and Hasbro. Through our EA Partners business, we also co-develop, co-publish and/or distribute video games that are developed and published by other companies, including the MTV Games/Harmonix series Rock
Band™ and the Crytek series Crysis®.

Another cornerstone of our strategy is to publish products that can be iterated, or sequeled. For example, a new edition for most of our sports products,
such as Madden NFL Football, is released each year. Other products, such as The Sims and Battlefield are sequeled on a less-frequent basis. We refer to these successful, iterated product families as “franchises.” We also make add-on
content available for purchase online or through expansion packs sold at retail for many of our products.

We develop our games using both
internal and external resources. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, research and development expenses were $1,229 million, $1,359 million and $1,145 million, respectively. We operate development studios (which develop
products and perform other related functions) worldwide: BioWare (Canada and United States), Bright Light (United Kingdom), Criterion (United Kingdom), DICE (Sweden), EA Canada, EA Los Angeles (United States), EA Montreal (Canada), EA Romania, Maxis
(United States), Playfish (United States, United Kingdom, China and Norway), EA Salt Lake City (United States), EA Seoul Studio (Korea), EA Singapore, EA Mythic (United States), Pogo (United States and China), The Sims Studio (United States), EA
Tiburon (United States), and Visceral (United States).We have quality assurance functions located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Romania, China, India, Korea, and Singapore and localization functions
located in Germany, Spain and Japan. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games at their own development and production studios.

Our global sales network allows us to market, publish and distribute games in over 35 countries throughout the world. We
generate a significant portion of our net revenue from direct sales of packaged goods products to retailers and in some of our smaller international territories, we work with third parties to distribute our packaged goods products. Many of our
games, and other online content, are also available to consumers via proprietary networks, such as the Xbox
LIVE®Marketplace on the Xbox 360 console and the PlayStation Network on the PLAYSTATION 3 and PSP consoles, or
via the Internet, including our own online stores. We also market and distribute games and other content for mobile devices through mobile carriers and proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices (i.e., mobile
application storefronts such as the Apple App Store, which provides applications for the Apple iPhone and iPod Touch, or Google’s Android Market for Android compatible phones).

Our North America net revenue, which was primarily generated in the United States, decreased by 16 percent to $2,025 million, or 55 percent of total net
revenue in fiscal year 2010, as compared to $2,412 million, or 57 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2009 and as compared to $1,942 million, or 53 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2008. Internationally, we conduct business
through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. International net revenue (i.e., net revenue derived from countries
other than Canada and the United States) decreased by 10 percent to $1,629 million, or 45 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2010, as compared to $1,800 million, or 43 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2009 and as compared to
$1,723 million, or 47 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2008.











The amounts of net revenue and
long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal years 2010 and 2009, no titles accounted for 10 percent or more of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2008, sales ofRock Band,
distributed for three platforms, represented approximately 10 percent of our total net revenue.

We were initially incorporated in California
in 1982. In September 1991, we reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.

Significant Business Developments in Fiscal 2010

Acquisition of Playfish Limited

On November 9, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Playfish Limited (“Playfish™”) for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $308 million in cash and equity. In addition, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011. This additional
consideration is limited to a maximum of $100 million. Playfish is a developer of free-to-play social games that can be played on social networking platforms and generates revenue through sales of digital content and Internet-based advertising.

Fiscal 2010 Restructuring Plan

In fiscal year 2010, we announced details of a restructuring plan to narrow our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher margin
opportunities. Under this plan, we reduced our workforce by approximately 1,200 employees and have been (1) consolidating or closing various facilities, (2) eliminating certain titles, and (3) incurring IT and other costs to assist in
reorganizing certain activities. The majority of these actions were completed by March 31, 2010.

Employee Stock
Option Exchange Program

On October 21, 2009, we launched a voluntary Employee Stock Option Exchange Program (“Exchange
Program”) to permit our eligible employees to exchange outstanding eligible options for a lesser number of restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock (in Canada only), or new options (in China only) to be granted under our 2000 Equity
Incentive Plan (the “Equity Plan”). The Exchange Program offer period began on October 21, 2009 and ended on November 18, 2009.

Options eligible for the Exchange Program were those options granted prior to October 21, 2008, that had an exercise price per share greater than
$28.18, which was the 52-week high trading price of our common stock measured as of the start date of the Exchange Program, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.

The Exchange Program resulted in options to purchase approximately 16,561,000 shares of our common stock being exchanged for restricted stock units to
acquire approximately 4,996,000 shares, approximately 923,000 shares of restricted stock awards and new options to purchase approximately 18,000 shares.

Redwood Shores Headquarters Facilities Purchase

On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessor’s
financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations to non-affiliated parties, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247
million, of which $233 million related to the purchase









price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Subsequent to our purchase, we classified the facilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as property and
equipment, net and depreciate the facilities acquired, excluding the land, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.

Our
Operating Structure

We are organized into three Labels (EA Games, EA SPORTS and EA Play), our EA Interactive organization (EA Mobile, Pogo
and Playfish) and our Global Publishing Organization. Each Label and EA Interactive operates globally with dedicated game development and marketing teams. Global Publishing operates in three regions — North America, Europe and Asia — and
is responsible for a number of business functions such as: strategic planning, field marketing, sales, distribution, operations, product certification, quality assurance, motion capture, art outsourcing and localization within the local markets in
which we operate.

EA Games Label

The EA Games Label is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams, which together create an expansive and diverse
portfolio of games marketed under the EA brand in categories such as action-adventure, role playing, racing and first-person shooter games. The EA Games portfolio is comprised primarily of wholly-owned properties and includes several established
franchises such as Need for Speed, Battlefield, Mass Effect and Dead Space. In addition, EA Games has recently launched new franchises including Dante’s Inferno and Dragon Age, and has additional titles in development. In addition to
traditional packaged goods games, EA Games also develops massively-multiplayer online role-playing games which are persistent state virtual worlds where thousands of other players can interact with one another (“MMOs”). Examples of MMOs
includeWarhammer®Online: Age of
Reckoning®andStar Wars™: The Old Republic™,which is in development at our
BioWare Austin Studio, in collaboration with LucasArts. EA Games titles are developed primarily at the following EA studios: BioWare (Edmonton, Canada, Austin, Texas, and Montreal, Canada), Criterion (Guildford, England), DICE (Stockholm, Sweden),
EA Los Angeles, EA Montreal, Visceral (Redwood City, California), EA Mythic (Fairfax, Virginia), and EA Canada (Burnaby, Canada).

EA Games
also includes the EA Partners group, which contracts with external game developers and third party companies, to provide these partners with a variety of services including development assistance, publishing, and distribution of their games.

EA SPORTS Label

The EA SPORTS Label brings together a collection of sports-based video games marketed under the EA SPORTS brand. EA SPORTS games range from simulated
sports titles with realistic graphics based on real-world sports leagues, players, events and venues to more casual games with arcade-style gameplay and graphics. We seek to release new iterations of many of our EA SPORTS titles annually in
connection with the commencement of a sports league’s season or a major sporting event when appropriate. Our EA SPORTS franchises include FIFA Soccer, Madden NFL Football, Fight Night, NBA Live, NCAA Football, Tiger Woods PGA Tour, and NHL
Hockey. EA SPORTS games are developed primarily at our EA Canada and our EA Tiburon studio located in Orlando, Florida.

EA Play Label

The EA Play Label is focused on creating compelling games for a mass audience of core and non-core gamers alike. EA Play games are intended to be easily
accessible for people of all ages, and to inspire fun and creativity. Many EA Play games only require a minimal time commitment to learn, play and enjoy. EA Play Label products include (1) wholly-owned franchises such as The Sims, MySims, and
Spore and (2) games published under licenses such as Harry Potter under license from Warner Bros., and video games based on Hasbro board games and toys. We have a long-term strategic agreement with Hasbro, which provides us with the exclusive
worldwide rights to create digital games for all major platforms based on most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties, including LITTLEST PET SHOP™, MONOPOLY™, SCRABBLE™ (United States and Canada











only), TRIVIAL PURSUIT™, NERF™, and RISK™ (excluding Italy). A number of products under this agreement have been released in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 and we plan to release
additional products based on Hasbro toy and game brands in fiscal year 2011. Our EA Play Label oversees internal studios and development teams located in California, United States, Utah, United States, Montreal, Canada and Guildford, England, and
works with third party developers.

EA Interactive

EA Interactive reports into our Global Publishing Organization and is focused wholly on interactive games for play on the Internet and mobile devices. EA
Interactive is comprised of EA Mobile, Pogo and Playfish.



•EA Mobile. Through EA Mobile, we are a leading global publisher of games for mobile devices. Our customers purchase and download our games
through a mobile carrier’s branded e-commerce service and mobile application storefronts accessed directly from their mobile devices. EA Mobile develops games for mobile devices internally at studios located in Canada, Romania, Australia,
India, and Korea. We also contract with third parties located in the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore, and China to develop games that will be produced by EA Mobile. Our focus is on producing high-quality, branded titles — ranging from
core to casual — with variations of the same game for compatibility across the multitude of geographies, carriers, and mobile devices, including the Apple iPhone and iPad.



•Pogo. Through our Pogo online service, we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word games. We had approximately 1.6 million paying
Club Pogo subscribers as of March 31, 2010. In addition to paid subscriptions, Pogo also generates revenue through Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content.



•Playfish. Through Playfish we offer free-to-play social games includingRestaurant City,Pet Society,Country Story,andGangster City,that can be played on social networking platforms such as Facebook, MySpace, Google, Bebo, iPhone, and Android. As of March 31, 2010, we had approximately 46 million monthly active players across Playfish’s 11
titles. Playfish generates revenue through sales of digital content and Internet-based advertising.

Global Publishing Organization

Global Publishing is responsible for the distribution, sales and marketing of our products (including strategic planning, operations, and manufacturing
functions), and for centralized development and global online services in support of our Labels (such as product certification, quality assurance, motion capture, art outsourcing and localization within the local markets in which we operate).

Distribution, Sales and Marketing.Our global sales network allows us to market, publish and distribute games
for all Labels throughout the world. Our North America publishing organization is headquartered in Redwood City, California. We have local offices in several states including Arkansas, Minnesota and Texas, among others. We also have a distribution
center in Kentucky. Our international publishing operations are headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, with offices throughout Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. We also use third party providers in Europe including Germany, Switzerland, and
the United Kingdom, for our warehousing needs. Marketing activities primarily focus on television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development, event sponsorship, and trade shows.

Central Development and Global Online Services.Our Central Development Services group provides development services to our
Labels, such as product localization, quality assurance and certification, motion capture, art outsourcing and media mastering. By grouping these services together within a single, centralized organization, we expect to continue to achieve
efficiencies, while improving the overall quality of our games by providing more sophisticated and robust services than any of our Labels could sustain on its own. Key components of Central Development Services’ strategy are outsourcing to
third parties and moving work offshore to lower-cost markets. Our Global Online Services group builds online development that enables our Labels to sell games and services directly to our customers.









Competition

We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with other providers of different
forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global
operations and greater financial resources than ours.

We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to
obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products. Some of these content licenses are controlled by the diversified media companies, which, in some cases, have decided to publish their own
games based on popular entertainment properties that they control, rather than licensing the content to a video game company such as us.

Competition in Sales of Packaged Goods

The packaged goods video game business is characterized by the frequent launch of new games, which may be sequels of popular game franchises, or newly
introduced game concepts. There is also rapid technological innovation in the packaged goods game business as competing companies continually improve their use of the powerful platforms on which games are designed to run, and extend the game
experience through additional content and online services (such as matchmaking and multiplayer functionality). Competition is also based on product quality and features, timing of product releases, brand-name recognition, availability and
quality of in-game content, access to distribution channels, effectiveness of marketing and price.

For sales of packaged goods, we compete
directly with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which develop and publish software for their respective console platforms. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop and publish video games that operate on these consoles and
on PCs and handheld game players. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Atari, Capcom, Koei, Konami, LucasArts, Namco, Sega, Take-Two Interactive, THQ and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Fox, Disney, Time Warner and Viacom are
also expanding their software game publishing efforts.

We also see a change in retail sales patterns which decreases our ability to derive
revenue from “catalog sales” (sales of games in the periods following the launch quarter). Currently, many console games experience sales cycles that are shorter than in the past. To mitigate this trend, we offer our consumers new
direct-to-consumer services such as additional content to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The mobile entertainment applications market segment, for which we develop and publish games for mobile devices, is characterized by frequent product
introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, and new mobile application storefronts. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the
demand for applications continues to increase and as there are more mobile application storefronts through which developers can offer products, we expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to
develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to intensify.

Current and
potential competitors in the mobile entertainment applications market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, mobile carriers, mobile software providers and other companies that specialize in mobile entertainment
applications. We also compete with mobile content aggregators, who pool applications from multiple developers (and sometimes publishers) and offer them to carriers or through other sales channels. In addition, new and existing competitors are
offering mobile entertainment applications on a free download, ad-supported basis. Currently, we consider our primary competitors in the mobile entertainment applications market to be Capcom Mobile, Gameloft, Glu Mobile, Namco, and PopCap.











Competition in
Online Gaming Services

The online (i.e., Internet-based) games market is characterized by frequent product introductions, new
and evolving business models and new platforms. As the proportion of households with a broadband connection continues to grow, we expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing online
games services. As a result, we expect competition in the online game services market to intensify.

Our current and potential competitors in
the online games market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games including social networking game companies. In the massively multiplayer online game business, our
competitors include Activision Blizzard, Atari, NC Soft, and Sony. Competing providers of other kinds of online games include AOL, Big Fish, MSN, Nexon, Popcap, Real, Yahoo!, and Zynga and other providers of games on social networking platforms such
as Facebook.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual
property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of
audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games — we call this form of intellectual property “content.”

We develop products from wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary
intellectual property in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and players’ associations, movie studios and
performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game
consoles, handhelds and mobile devices include technology that is owned by the console or mobile device manufacturer and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console and mobile device
manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of
these rights on reasonable terms and at reasonable rates.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual
property. We typically own the copyright to the software code, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute our PC
products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate
technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including
monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Relationships

Console Manufacturers

Sony.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are
authorized to develop and distribute disk-based software products and online content compatible with the PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3 and PSP. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Sony to supply PlayStation 2, PLAYSTATION 3 and PSP disks for our
products.









Microsoft.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are
authorized to develop and distribute DVD-based software products and online content compatible with the Xbox 360.

Nintendo.    Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, we are authorized
to develop and distribute proprietary optical format disk products and cartridges compatible with the Wii and the Nintendo DS. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Nintendo to supply Wii proprietary optical format disk products and Nintendo DS
cartridges for our products.

Under the agreements with each of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to
use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a
case-by case basis by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo, as the case may be, and there are no minimum purchase requirements under the agreements. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo — such as manufacturing
terms, delivery times and approval conditions — are determined unilaterally, and, are subject to change, by the console manufacturers. We pay the console manufacturers a per unit royalty for each unit manufactured or for revenue from downloaded
content.

As each platform license expires, if we intend to continue publishing games on such platform, we must enter into a new agreement or
an amendment with the licensor to extend the term of the agreement. Certain agreements, such as the licenses with Sony for the PLAYSTATION 3 and with Microsoft for the Xbox 360, automatically renew for a specified period unless either
party gives notice by the applicable date that it intends to terminate the agreement.

The platform license agreements also require us to
indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the manufacturer involving the development, marketing, sale, or use of our games, including any claims for copyright or trademark
infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become insolvent.

Retailers

The
console, handheld and PC games that we publish are made available to consumers as packaged goods (usually in Blu-ray Disc, CD, DVD, cartridge or Universal Media Disc format) that are typically sold at retailers (including online retailers, such as
Amazon). In North America and Europe, our largest markets, we sell these packaged goods products primarily to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Wal-Mart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty
stores (such as GameStop). Many of our products and related content (such as booster packs, expansion packs and smaller pieces of game content) can also be purchased over the Internet through digital download or through mobile application
storefronts accessed directly from videogame consoles or mobile devices.

We generated approximately 75 percent of our North America net
revenue from direct sales to retailers in fiscal year 2010, with the remaining net revenue being generated through a limited number of specialized and regional distributors in markets where we believe direct sales would not be economical. We had
direct sales to GameStop Corp. which represented approximately 16 percent, 14 percent and 13 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We also had direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which represented
approximately 12 percent, 14 percent and 12 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We sell our products to GameStop and Wal-Mart pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain
delivery and pricing terms. There is no commitment by either GameStop or Wal-Mart to purchase or for us to sell to either GameStop or Wal-Mart, any minimum level of product.

Mobile Carriers

We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through more than 320 carriers in over 55 countries. Our customers download our applications to
their mobile devices and their mobile carrier invoices them either a one-time or monthly subscription fee. Our carrier distribution agreements establish the fees to be retained by the











carrier for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the carriers to market or distribute any of our
applications.

Content Licensors

Many of our products are based on or incorporate content and trademarks owned by others. For example, our products include rights licensed from third
parties, including major movie studios, publishers, artists, authors, celebrities, traditional game and toy companies, athletes and the major sports leagues and players’ associations.

EA Partners

Through our EA Partners group, we team with external game developers and third party companies, to provide these partners with a variety of services
including development assistance, publishing, and distribution. For example, through agreements with Crytek and Harmonix, a subsidiary of Viacom, we plan to releaseCrysis 2,and have releasedThe Beatles: Rock Band,respectively.
Additionally, we have a development agreement with Epic Games for our upcoming release ofBulletstorm.

Inventory, Working Capital,
Backlog, Manufacturing and Suppliers

We manage inventory by communicating with our customers prior to the release of our products, and
then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a product-by-product and territory-by-territory basis. Historically, we have experienced high turnover of our products, and the lead times on re-orders of our products are generally two to
three weeks. Further, as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we have practices in place with our customers (such as stock balancing and price protection) that reduce
product returns.

We typically ship orders immediately upon receipt. To the extent that any backlog may or may not exist at the end of a
reporting period, it would be an unreliable indicator of future results of any period.

In many instances, we are able to acquire materials on
a volume-discount basis. We have multiple potential sources of supply for most materials, except for the disk or cartridge component of our PLAYSTATION 3, PlayStation 2, PSP, Wii and Nintendo DS products.

Seasonality

Our business is highly
seasonal. We have historically experienced our highest sales volume in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be
no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content over an extended period of time (generally six months). As a
result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates,
consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our revenue recognition policies.

Employees

As of March 31, 2010, we had approximately 7,800 regular, full-time employees, over 4,600 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our
ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees.
Approximately 3 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union.









Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 28, 2010:



NameAgePositionJohn S. Riccitiello50Chief Executive OfficerJohn Schappert39Chief Operating OfficerEric F. Brown44Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerFrank D. Gibeau41President, EA Games LabelPeter R. Moore55President, EA SPORTS LabelRodney Humble44Executive Vice President, EA Play LabelNancy Smith57Executive Vice President, Global PublishingJoel Linzner58Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano43Executive Vice President, Human Resources and FacilitiesKenneth A. Barker43Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerStephen G. Bené46Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Mr. Riccitiellohas served as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Electronic Arts since April 2007. Prior to re-joining Electronic
Arts, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners, a private equity fund. From October 1997 to April 2004, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts. Prior to joining Electronic Arts,
Mr. Riccitiello served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the worldwide bakery division at Sara Lee Corporation. Before joining Sara Lee, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and has also held
executive management positions at Haagen-Dazs, PepsiCo, Inc. and The Clorox Company. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Riccitiello served as a director of Hyperion Solutions Corporation
from July 2002 to April 2007. He serves on the Board of Directors of the UC Berkeley Haas School of Business and on the Board of Councilors of the USC School of Cinematic Arts.

Mr. Schapperthas served as Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts since July 2009. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he served as
Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Interactive Entertainment Business, responsible for their Xbox LIVE and Microsoft Game Studios businesses. From November 2006 to July 2007, Mr. Schappert served as Senior Vice President, Chief Operating
Officer, Worldwide Studios of Electronic Arts. Prior to this, Mr. Schappert served as Senior Vice President, Group General Manager, Worldwide Studios of EA from January 2003 to October 2006, Vice President, General Manager of EA Canada from
July 2002 to January 2003, and Vice President, General Manager of EA Tiburon from April 1998 to July 2002. Mr. Schappert founded Tiburon Entertainment in 1994, which was acquired by Electronic Arts in 1998.

Mr. Brownhas served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2008. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, he served as
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of McAfee, Inc., a security technology company from March 2006 until March 2008. From January 2005 until March 2006, Mr. Brown was McAfee’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer. Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Financial Officer of MicroStrategy Incorporated, a business intelligence software provider, from 2000 until 2004. Mr. Brown received an M.B.A. from the Sloan School of Management
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.S. in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Mr. Gibeauwas named President, EA Games Label in June 2007. Prior to that time, he had served as Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing beginning in September 2005. From 2002 until September 2005, he was Senior Vice President
of North American Marketing. Mr. Gibeau has held various publishing positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.











Mr. Moorewas named
President, EA SPORTS, in September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment
Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Prior to joining Microsoft, Mr. Moore was President and Chief Operating Officer of SEGA of America, where he was
responsible for overseeing SEGA’s video game business in North America. Before joining SEGA, Mr. Moore was Senior Vice President of Marketing at Reebok International Ltd. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor’s degree from Keele University,
United Kingdom, and a Master’s degree from California State University, Long Beach.

Mr. Humblewas named Executive Vice
President, EA Play Label in November 2008. Mr. Humble joined Electronic Arts in October 2004, where he served as Executive Producer of The Sims studio before becoming Vice President in February 2006. Mr. Humble was promoted to Senior Vice
President of The Sims studio in August 2007 and Executive Vice President of The Sims studio in September 2008. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Humble was the Vice President of Product Development at Sony Online Entertainment from 2000 to
2004. From 1997 to 2000, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Harmless Games, an independent games company that he co-owned. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Humble served as Executive Producer at Virgin Interactive and from 1990 to 1995 he served as
Executive Producer at Gametek.

Ms. Smithwas named Executive Vice President, Global Publishing in February
2010. From November 2008 until February 2010, Ms. Smith served Electronic Arts in a variety of capacities. From September 2005 until November 2008, she led The Sims Label, first as Executive Vice President and General Manager of The
Sims Franchise, and then as President of The Sims Label. From March 1998 until September 2005, she served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, North American Publishing. From October 1996 to March 1998, Ms. Smith served as
Executive Vice President, North American Sales. She held the position of Senior Vice President, North American Sales and Distribution from July 1993 to October 1996 and Vice President Sales from 1988 to 1993. From 1984 to 1988, Ms. Smith served
as Western Regional Sales Manager and National Sales Manager. Ms. Smith holds a B.S. degree in management and organizational behavior from the University of San Francisco.

Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. From April 2004 to March 2005, he served as
Senior Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs. From October 2002 to April 2004, Mr. Linzner held the position of Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Affairs and from July 1999 to October 2002, he held the position of Vice President
of Worldwide Business Affairs. Prior to joining Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from
Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
and several United States District Courts.

Ms. Toledanohas served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities
since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Ms. Toledano worked at Siebel Systems, Inc. from July 2002 to
February 2006 where she held a number of positions, including Senior Vice President of Human Resources. From September 2000 to June 2002, she served as Senior Director of Human Resources for Microsoft Corporation, and from September 1998 until
September 2000, she served as Director of Human Resources and Recruiting for Microsoft. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University. Ms Toledano also serves on
the Board of Directors of the Society of HR Management.

Mr. Barkerhas served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer
since April 2006. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate
Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in
Accounting.









Mr. Benéhas
served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. From April 2004 to October 2004, Mr. Bené held the position of Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and from June
2003 to April 2004, he held the position of Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to June 2003, Mr. Bené had served as internal legal counsel since joining EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from
Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a member of the Bar of the State of California.

Investor Information

Our annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge
on the Investor Relations section of our website athttp://investor.ea.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report,
the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.











