Item 1:Business

We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of video game machines and electronic devices (which we call “platforms”), including:

•Video game consoles, such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo WiiU,

•Personal computers (“PCs”)

•Mobile devices, such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones,

•Tablets and electronic readers, such as the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle, and

•The Internet, including social networking sites such as Facebook.

Our Strategy

Our business continues to transform. Historically, we have derived most of our sales from disk-based video game products that are sold through retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products). Now, however, the fastest growing part of our business is delivering games directly to consumers through online and wireless networks. For example:

•Players can access online-delivered content and services as add-ons to our console and PC games;

•Consumers can download our PC games (and those of other publishers) directly through our Origin online platform, as well as through third-party online download stores and services, including through Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace;

•We provide games for mobile devices and Internet-only games such as our free-to-play offerings that are available only through online and wireless delivery; and

•We offer large-scale, massively multi-player online games and game services on a free-to-play and subscription basis.

At the same time, we have aggressively reduced the number of significant titles releases that we launch each year. In fiscal year 2009, we published over 60 packaged goods products, each of which was primarily a stand-alone game with few or no online features, and in each fiscal year since, we have launched fewer titles on consoles, while building additional online features, content and services around each one of our titles. In fiscal year 2013, we published 13 titles on video game consoles and PCs (each with additional online features, content and/or services) and we offered more than 22 titles for mobile and Internet platforms to take advantage of the growth opportunities on those platforms.

Brands

Our strategy is to develop our core intellectual properties (which we call “brands”) into year-round businesses available on a range of platforms. We have created, licensed and acquired a strong portfolio of brands, which span a diverse range of categories, including action-adventure, casual, family, fantasy, first-person shooter, horror, science fiction, role-playing, racing, simulation, sports, and strategy. Our portfolio of brands includes wholly-owned brands such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies. Our portfolio also includes brands based on licensed intellectual property including sports-based brands such as Madden NFL and FIFA.










A cornerstone of our brand strategy is to publish products that can be iterated, or sequeled, and that can be integrated across multiple game-playing devices. For example, a new edition of our most popular sports product, FIFA Soccer, is released each year for consoles, PCs, mobile phones, and tablets.

Platforms

Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, another cornerstone of our business strategy. Technology advances continue to create new platforms and distribution opportunities for interactive entertainment and these technologies impact the way consumers play video games. We expect that new platforms will continue to grow the consumer base for our products while also providing competition for established video game platforms. Both Microsoft and Sony have announced their plans to release new video game console systems in 2013.  In November 2012, Nintendo released its WiiU, which succeeded the Wii. EA is investing in products and services for these next-generation consoles. In the near term, we expect to continue to develop and market products and services for current-generation consoles including the Xbox 360 and PLAYSTATION 3, while also developing products and services for next-generation console systems. The success of our products and services for these next-generation consoles depends in part on the commercial success and adequate supply of these new consoles, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products and services for these platforms.

Further, we are investing significantly in our own distribution platform, which consumers are already using to purchase and play games directly from us. Through online portals such as Origin, we are acquiring consumers of our games and game services directly, and establishing on-going relationships with them. Through these relationships, we are engaging them in their favorite brands across a number of devices, allowing them to communicate with their friends, and inviting them to try our other game experiences. We have generated substantial growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platforms.

Significant Business Developments in Fiscal Year 2013

Digital Content Distribution and Services.Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online-delivered products and services including through our Origin platform. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download via the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices.

Wireless and Internet Platforms; Casual and Mobile Games. Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming game services, and Internet-based platforms.  These technologies, services and platforms grow the consumer base for our business and have led to the growth of casual and mobile gaming. Casual and mobile games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization (including free-to-play and micro-transaction business models) and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic - including younger and older players and more female players - than video games played on console devices. We expect sales of casual and mobile games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business.

Global Operations

We were initially incorporated in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.

We operate development studios (which develop products and perform other related functions) in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games at their own development and production studios. Internationally, we conduct business through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America.

Our North America net revenue, which was primarily generated in the United States, was $1,701 million in fiscal year 2013, as compared to $1,991 million in fiscal year 2012 and $1,836 million in fiscal year 2011. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States) decreased by 3 percent to $2,096 million, or 55 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2013, as compared to $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2012 and as










compared to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2011. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal year 2013, revenue from sales ofFIFA 13represented approximately 17 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2012, revenue from sales ofFIFA 12andBattlefield 3represented approximately 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2011, revenue from sales ofFIFA 11represented approximately 11 percent of our total net revenue.

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, research and development expenses were$1,153 million,$1,180 millionand$1,124 million, respectively.

Our Operating Structure

Our studios and development teams are organized around our Label structure. Each Label operates globally with dedicated game development teams. These Labels are supported by our Global Publishing Organization that is responsible for the distribution, sales, and marketing of our products, including strategic planning, operations, and manufacturing functions.

EA Games

EA Games is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams, which together create an expansive and diverse portfolio of games and related content and services marketed under the EA brand in categories such as action-adventure, role playing, racing and first-person shooter games. The EA Games portfolio consist primarily of wholly-owned intellectual properties and includes several established franchises such as Battlefield, Dead Space, and Need for Speed. These titles are developed primarily at our DICE (Sweden), Visceral (Redwood City) and Criterion (United Kingdom) studios. The EA Games portfolio also includes properties published under the BioWare brand.  BioWare develops role-playing games, such as the Mass Effect and Dragon Age franchises, and the MMO role-playing gameStar Wars: The Old Republic. BioWare games are developed primarily in Texas, Canada and California.

EA Games also contracts with external game developers to provide these developers with a variety of services including development assistance, publishing, and distribution of their games.

EA SPORTS

EA SPORTS develops a collection of sports-based video games and related content and services marketed under the EA SPORTS brand. EA SPORTS games range from simulated sports titles with realistic graphics based on real-world sports leagues, players, events and venues to more casual games with arcade-style gameplay and graphics. We have historically released new iterations of many of our EA SPORTS titles annually in connection with the commencement of a sports league’s season or a major sporting event when appropriate. Our EA SPORTS franchises include FIFA,  Madden NFL, NCAA Football, NHL Hockey, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour. EA SPORTS games are developed primarily in Canada and Florida.

Maxis

Maxis focuses on creating compelling games and related content and services for a mass audience. Maxis products include wholly-owned franchises such as The Sims and SimCity, and in fiscal 2013, we released titles in both of these franchises. Maxis games are primarily developed in California, Utah and the United Kingdom.

PopCap

PopCap develops easy-to-learn games that everyone can enjoy. PopCap games, including hits such as Bejeweled, Plants vs. Zombies, Peggle, and Bookworm, are characterized by their mass appeal, flexible monetization, and fun and approachable gameplay. PopCap games are developed primarily in Washington.



All Play



Our All Play Label develops interactive games for play on mobile devices and Internet platforms. Mobile games under the All Play Label are developed primarily at studios located in the United States, Canada, Romania, Australia and India. The All Play Label also offers games under the Pogo brand. Through our Pogo online service, we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word games on www.pogo.com, as well as on other platforms. Pogo generates revenue through paid subscriptions, Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content. In addition, we have a licensing agreement with Hasbro, which provides us with the exclusive rights to create digital games for mobile and other platforms based on Hasbro's game intellectual










properties, including MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE (for United States and Canada), YAHTZEE (excluding the Nordic countries), and GAME OF LIFE (excluding Japan). Hasbro games are developed within the All Play Label.

Competition

We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.

Competition in Games for Console Devices

We compete directly with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which develop and publish software for their respective console platforms. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop and publish video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Disney are also involved in software game publishing.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The marketplace for mobile games is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, and new mobile application storefronts. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications are currently being offered by a wide range of competitors, including Capcom Mobile, DeNA, Gameloft, Glu Mobile, Gree, Rovio, and Zynga, and hundreds of smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to intensify.

Competition in Online Gaming Services

The online (i.e., Internet-based) games market is characterized by frequent product introductions, new and evolving business models and new platforms. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing online games services. As a result, we expect competition in the online game services market to intensify.

Our competitors in the online games market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games including social networking game companies. In the MMO game business, our primary competitor is Activision Blizzard. Competing providers of other kinds of online games include Big Fish, King.com, Nexon, Tencent and Zynga and other providers of games on social networking platforms such as Facebook.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games – we call this form of intellectual property “content.”

We develop products and services from wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios and obtain through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and players’ associations, movie studios and performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and mobile devices, or other proprietary platforms may include technology that is owned by the device manufacturer or platform operator and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from other providers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to our software code and content, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.










As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute our PC products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Relationships

Channel Partners

Sony. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disk-based software products and online content compatible with the PlayStation 3. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Sony to supply disks for our products.

Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute DVD-based software products and online content compatible with the Xbox 360.

Nintendo. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute proprietary optical format disk products and online content compatible with the WiiU. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Nintendo to supply WiiU proprietary optical format disk products for our products.

Under the agreements with each of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo, as the case may be, and there are no minimum purchase requirements under the agreements. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – such as manufacturing terms, delivery times and approval conditions – are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. We pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured and the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a percentage royalty on the revenue they derive from the distribution of our online content or services.

The platform license agreements also require us to indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The manufacturers are not obligated to enter into platform license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services.

Apple, Google and Other App Stores.We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through distribution partners worldwide, including Apple and Google. Consumers download our applications for their mobile devices and from third party-application storefronts. The distributor invoices the consumers either a one-time or subscription fee. If the application is a “free-to-download” application, the distributor invoices the consumer for micro-transactions that are purchased by the consumer within the application. Our distribution agreements establish the fees to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications.

Retailers

As our business becomes increasingly digital, more of our products and services are purchased over the Internet through Origin, our direct-to-consumer platform, or through digital downloads from third party retailers or through mobile application storefronts.

In North America and Europe, our largest markets, we sell packaged goods products to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Wal-Mart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop).

Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 13 percent, 15 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent  of total net revenue in fiscal year 2011. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. did not exceed 10 percent of net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There are no minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and either GameStop or Wal-Mart.










Seasonality

Our business is highly seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled games over an extended period of time. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our revenue recognition policies.

Government Regulation

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world.

Employees

As of March 31, 2013, we had approximately 9,300 regular, full-time employees, over 5,300 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 6 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union.

Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 22, 2013:NameAgePositionLawrence F. Probst III62Executive Chairman, Principle Executive OfficerBlake Jorgensen53Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerFrank D. Gibeau44President, EA LabelsPeter R. Moore58Chief Operating OfficerRajat Taneja48Chief Technology OfficerPatrick Söderlund39Executive Vice President, EA Games LabelAndrew Wilson38Executive Vice President, EA SPORTSJoel Linzner61Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano46Executive Vice President and Chief Talent OfficerKenneth A. Barker46Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerStephen G. Bené49Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Mr. Probsthas been our Executive Chairman since March 18, 2013. Mr. Probst was employed by EA previously from 1984 to September 2008. He has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since July 1994 and, from May 1991 until April 2007, also served as our Chief Executive Officer. Previously Mr. Probst served as President from 1991 until 1998. Mr. Probst serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Olympic Committee and is also a director of Blackhawk Networks Holdings, Inc. Mr. Probst holds a B.S. degree from the University of Delaware.

Mr. Jorgensenhas served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2012. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. from July 2009 to August 2012. From June 2007 to June 2009, Mr. Jorgensen served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Yahoo! Inc. Mr. Jorgensen earned his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and his Economics degree from Stanford University.

Mr. Gibeauwas named President, EA Labels in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA Games Label from June 2007. From September 2005 until June 2007, he was Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing. Mr. Gibeau has held various positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.










Mr. Moorewas named President, Chief Operating Officer in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA SPORTS, from September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor's degree from Keele University, United Kingdom, and a Master's degree from California State University, Long Beach.

Mr. Tanejahas served as Chief Technology Officer since October 2011. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Taneja spent 15 years with Microsoft Corporation where he most recently served as Vice President, Commerce Division in 2011 and General Manager and Corporate Vice President, Online Services Division from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Taneja earned his M.B.A. from Washington State University and his Electrical Engineering degree from Jadavpur University.

Mr. Söderlundwas named Executive Vice President, EA Games Label in August 2011. From December 2010 to July 2011 he served as Executive Vice President, Group General Manager - FPS/Driving. Prior to that Mr. Söderlund held the position of Senior Vice President, EA Games Europe from September 2007 to December 2010 and the Chief Executive Officer of DICE until September 2007. Mr. Söderlund joined DICE in 2000. The studio was sold to Electronic Arts in October 2006.

Mr. Wilsonwas named Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS in August 2011. From March 2010 to August 2011, he served as Senior Vice President, EA SPORTS. Prior to that, Mr. Wilson held the position of Senior Vice President Global Online from September 2009 to March 2010 and Vice President, EA SPORTS from June 2008 to September 2009. Mr. Wilson has held various positions within the company since joining the Electronic Arts in May 2000.

Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. Prior to joining Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.

Ms. Toledanowas named Executive Vice President and Chief Talent Officer in October 2011. From April 2007 until October 2011, Ms. Toledano served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. From February 2006 until March 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Ms. Toledano serves on the Board of Directors of the Society for Human Resource Management and Big City Mountaineers. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University.

Mr. Barkerhas served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. From February 2012 to August 2012, he also served as Interim Chief Financial Officer. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in Accounting.

Mr. Benéhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. Mr. Bené joined EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a member of the Bar of the State of California.

Investor Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website athttp://ir.ea.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.












