Item 1:Business



Overview



We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including game consoles (such as the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 from Sony, and Xbox 360 and Xbox One from Microsoft), PCs, mobile phones and tablets.



Our Strategy



We have three core strategies:

•Players First

•Commitment to Digital

•One EA

Players First



Players are the foundation of our success, and we are committed to thinking about players first in everything we do. Our goal is to build deep, on-going relationships with our players. We aim to build these relationships by creating amazing games and services that deliver long-lasting fun and enduring value.



Our games and services are based on a portfolio of intellectual property that includes established brands such as Madden NFL, FIFA, Battlefield, Dragon Age, Sims and Need for Speed. In calendar year 2014, we were the top publisher on both Xbox One and PlayStation 4. We achieved this result by delivering award-winning games to our players, including Dragon Age:  Inquisition which was named “game of the year” by numerous media outlets, including IGN, Game Informer and the Associated Press. Meanwhile, during fiscal year 2015, we averaged over 165 million monthly active users (“MAUs”) on our mobile titles. Information regarding our MAUs is provided under Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.

Commitment to Digital



Players increasingly are buying and playing games digitally rather than purchasing disc-based games from retailers. In addition, players are engaging with those games for longer periods of time, as they purchase additional content and services that we provide digitally. This digital transformation is creating new opportunities in platforms, content models and modalities of play. For example, we offer digitally delivered expansion packs for our Battlefield and Sims franchises. Similarly, the Ultimate Team feature in our FIFA, Madden NFL, NHL and NBA games has extended the life of those games by engaging players over longer periods of time.



We are investing in a digital platform, a technology foundation to enable us to deliver content and services for franchises like FIFA and Battlefield while building player relationships that can last for years instead of for days or weeks. That same foundation also enables new player-centric ways to discover and try new experiences, such as EA Access and several offerings associated with our Origin service, including our Great Game Guarantee and On the House programs. We believe that our










digital revenue, which is generally higher-margin relative to packaged goods sales revenue, will continue to increase during fiscal year 2016 relative to packaged goods revenue and in absolute terms.



Our players can access our digitally-delivered games and services through several mechanisms. Console games, additional content and enhanced online services can be purchased directly through Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace. Our PC games and additional content can be downloaded directly through our Origin online platform, as well as through third-party online download stores. Our mobile, tablet and PC free-to-download games and additional content are available through wireless and online delivery, and our large scale, massively multi-player online service is available on a free-to-download and subscription basis.

One EA



The pursuit of our goals requires that we operate as one team that is faster, more focused and constantly evolving, and we are undertaking a cultural shift in our operations and development process in order to become a more flexible organization. We are changing how we develop our games, engaging players through alphas, betas and other programs to seek out more feedback earlier in the game development process. We are also changing the makeup and skill set of our workforce, and combining the art of game-making with the science of managing dynamic live services. These changes have enabled us to continue to increase our operational speed while improving our fiscal discipline.



Our Brands and Platforms



In our games, we utilize established brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, Dragon Age, The Sims and Plants v. Zombies) or license from others (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars).  Leveraging these brands across a diverse range of genres (from casual to role-playing to sports simulation) enables us to build on-going relationships with a wide audience across a broad range of platforms.



We have the ability to deliver our products and services to our consumers across multiple platforms, including consoles, mobile phones, tablets and PCs (both through downloads via our Origin portal and through free-to-download games that can be played directly over the Internet). We believe this flexibility is critical to maintaining and growing our overall consumer base, which continues to evolve in response to the introduction of new platforms and platform business models. In particular, we are expanding the use of popular brands historically associated with console platforms, such as FIFA and Madden NFL, to mobile platforms.



New gaming platforms are expected to continue to emerge in the future. We intend to evaluate new platform publishing opportunities on a case-by-case basis as they emerge.

Global Operations

We were initially incorporated in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.



We operate development studios in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games and services at their own development and production studios. Internationally, we conduct business through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America.

Our North America net revenue was $1,956 million in fiscal year 2015, as compared to $1,510 million in fiscal year 2014 and $1,701 million in fiscal year 2013. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States) increased by 24 percent to $2,559 million, or 57 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2015, as compared to $2,065 million, or 58 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2014 and as compared to $2,096 million, or 55 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2013. We attribute net revenue from external customers to individual countries based on the location of the legal entity that sells the products and/or services. Note that revenue attributed to the legal entity that makes the sale is often not the country where the consumer resides. For example, revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities includes digital revenue from consumers who reside outside of Switzerland, including consumers who reside outside of Europe. Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities duringfiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013represents$1,462 million,$1,171 millionand$885 millionor32 percent,33 percentand23 percentof our total net revenue, respectively. Revenue generated in the United States represents over99 percentof our total North America net revenue. There were no other countries with net revenue greater than10 percentof total net revenue. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable to each of our










geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal year 2015, revenue from sales ofFIFA 15represented approximately 15 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2014, revenue from sales ofFIFA 14represented approximately 15 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2013, revenue from sales ofFIFA 13represented approximately 17 percent of our total net revenue.

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, research and development expenses were $1,094 million, $1,125 million and $1,153 million, respectively.

Information regarding financial data is set forth in Part II, Item 6 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Selected Financial Data,” and information regarding certain risks attendant to our foreign operations is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Financial Results” and “Trends in Our Business”.

Our Operating Structure

Our studios and development teams are organized around three divisions: EA Studios, EA Mobile, and Maxis. Each division operates globally with support from our Global Publishing and Marketing organizations, as well as our Digital Platform team.

EA Studios

EA Studios is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams and is responsible for developing games and related content and services across an expansive range of game categories. Our franchises include FIFA, Madden NFL, Need for Speed, Battlefield, Mass Effect, Star Wars and Dragon Age. Our largest studios within the EA Studios organization are located in the United States, Canada and Sweden.

The diverse studios within the EA Studios organization have the goal of operating as one collaborative organization through the use of common technologies and shared development frameworks. We also contract with external game developers for development services or to establish publishing and distribution relationships, such as the one we have with Respawn Entertainment for Titanfall.

EA Mobile

Our EA Mobile organization develops and publishes interactive games for play on mobile phones and tablets, as well as certain casual games for the PC. The Mobile organization’s brand portfolio includes wholly owned properties such as Plants vs. Zombies, Real Racing and Bejeweled, as well licensed intellectual properties such as Tetris and The Simpsons. The EA Mobile organization also manages our Pogo online service, through which we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word games on www.pogo.com, as well as on other platforms. Pogo generates revenue through paid subscriptions, Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content. The EA Mobile organization has studios located in the United States, Canada, China, Australia, Finland and India. Certain mobile games, such as those related to our EA SPORTS franchises, are developed primarily by the EA Studios organization.

Maxis

Our Maxis organization focuses on creating compelling games and related content and services that engage player creativity. The Maxis portfolio includes the wholly-owned franchises The Sims and SimCity. Maxis games are primarily developed at studios in the United States.

Global Publishing and Marketing

Our Global Publishing and Marketing organizations are responsible for the distribution, sales, and marketing of our products and services, including operations, and manufacturing functions, as well as our global media advertising sales business and customer support teams. Mobile game publishing is overseen by our EA Mobile organization.

Digital Platform

Our Digital Platform team is responsible for creating and maintaining a technology foundation that enhances EA’s ability to deliver gameplay services and facilitate transactions across platforms for all of our games.












Competition

We compete with other video game companies and with providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music, for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.  Primary competitive factors important to us include game quality and ease of use, compatibility of products with certain platforms, online capability, price, marketing, and quality of customer service.

Competition in Games for Console Devices and PCs

We compete directly with Sony and Microsoft, each of which develops and publishes software for its respective console platform. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop and publish video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Disney and Warner Bros. also are involved in software game development and publishing.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The marketplace for mobile games, particularly free-to-download mobile games, is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, new mobile application storefronts and thousands of game offerings. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications currently are offered by a wide range of competitors, including Supercell, KING, GungHo Online and hundreds of smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and promote competing applications by, among other things, establishing a presence in geographic regions in which they did not operate previously.  As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to continue to intensify.

Competition in PC Free-to-Download Online Gaming Services

The PC free-to-download games market is characterized by frequent product introductions. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing PC free-to-download online game services. As a result, we expect competition in this market to intensify. Our competitors in this market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games, such as Riot, and companies that produce online games, in addition to operating online gaming platforms, such as Tencent, Nexon, Valve and Activision Blizzard.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. This intellectual property includes audiovisual and other content, software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets.

We develop some of our products and services from wholly-owned intellectual properties that are created in our studios or obtained through acquisition.  We also utilize intellectual property obtained through licenses from third-party rights owners, such as sports leagues and players’ associations, film and music companies, performing talent, and other content and technology companies. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods.  In addition, our products that play on game consoles, mobile devices, or other proprietary platforms may include technology that is owned by the device manufacturer or platform operator and is licensed non-exclusively to us for use.  While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to our software code and content, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.










We typically distribute our products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent unauthorized copying, access and exploitation of our products and services. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products and other exploitation. We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world. In addition, we actively engage in activities designed to limit the impact of abuse of our digital products and services, including monitoring our games for evidence of exploitation and re-balancing our game environments in the event that such abuse is discovered.

Significant Relationships

Channel Partners

Sony. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with PlayStation 3 and 4. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into a licensed publisher agreement with Sony for PlayStation 4, and the parties currently operate under the terms of existing agreements subject to a new pricing structure with respect to PlayStation 4.

Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with Xbox 360 and Xbox One.

Under the agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions for disc-based products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured. With respect to digitally-delivered products, other online content and services sold by the console manufacturers, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a percentage royalty on the revenue they derive from their sales. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft - such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, platform policies and approval conditions - are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers.

The platform license agreements also require us to indemnify the console manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the console manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the console manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the console manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the console manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The console manufacturers are not obligated to enter into platform license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services.

Apple, Google and Other App Stores.We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through distribution partners worldwide, including Apple and Google. Consumers download our applications for their mobile devices from third party-application storefronts. The distributor charges the consumers a one-time fee if there is a cost to download the application. If the application is a “free-to-download” application, the distributor may still charge the consumer for additional content that is purchased by the consumer within the application. Our distribution agreements establish the fees to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications and additional content. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications.

Publishing Partners in Asia.We have entered into agreements whereby we partner with certain companies, including Tencent Holdings Limited and Nexon Co., Ltd. or their respective affiliates, pursuant to which these companies publish our mobile and PC free-to-download games in certain Asian territories, including China and Korea.  Our players download games from the publishers’ platforms, and are charged for additional content purchased within our game environment.  The agreements generally establish the amounts that are retained by the publishers, and the amounts that are passed through to us.










Retailers

In North America and Europe, our largest markets, we sell packaged goods products to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Walmart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop).

Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 11 percent, 13 percent and 13 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. In fiscal year 2015, our direct sales to Microsoft represented approximately 10 percent of total net revenue. Our direct sales to Microsoft did not exceed 10 percent of net revenue in fiscal years 2014 and 2013. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There are no minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and GameStop.

As our business becomes increasingly digital, more of our products and services are purchased from a digital retailer and delivered via a network connection. Our digital retail outlets include Origin (our direct-to-consumer platform), mobile application storefronts, the digital marketplaces operated by Sony for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 and Microsoft for Xbox 360 and Xbox One, and various third party retailers offering digital game downloads.

Seasonality

Our business is highly seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled games over an extended period of time. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different from the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results also can vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules, content offerings and our revenue recognition policies.

Government Regulation

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world.

Employees

As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately 8,400 regular, full-time employees, over 4,900 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 7 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union.

Investor Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.










Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as ofMay 21, 2015:NameAgePositionAndrew Wilson40Chief Executive OfficerBlake Jorgensen55Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerPeter R. Moore60Chief Operating OfficerPatrick Söderlund41Executive Vice President, EA StudiosKenneth Moss49Chief Technology OfficerChristopher Bruzzo45Chief Marketing OfficerJoel Linzner63Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano48Executive Vice President, Chief Talent OfficerLucy Bradshaw52Senior Vice President, MaxisKenneth A. Barker48Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerJacob J. Schatz46Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Mr. Wilsonhas served as EA’s Chief Executive Officer and as a director of EA since September 2013. Prior to his appointment as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilson held several positions within the Company since joining EA in May 2000, including Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS from August 2011 to September 2013, Senior Vice President, EA SPORTS from March 2010 to August 2011 and Senior Vice President Online from July 2009 to September 2010.



Mr. Jorgensenhas served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2012. Prior to joining EA, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. from July 2009 to August 2012. From June 2007 to June 2009, Mr. Jorgensen served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Yahoo! Inc. Mr. Jorgensen earned his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and his Economics degree from Stanford University.



Mr. Moorehas served as Chief Operating Officer since August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA SPORTS, from September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined EA in 2007, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor's degree from Keele University, United Kingdom, and a Master's degree from California State University, Long Beach.



Mr. Söderlundhas served as Executive Vice President, EA Studios since September 2013. Prior to that time, he served as Executive Vice President, EA Games Label from August 2011. From December 2010 to July 2011, he served as Executive Vice President, Group General Manager - FPS/Driving. Prior to that, Mr. Söderlund held the position of Senior Vice President, EA Games Europe from September 2007 to December 2010. Mr. Söderlund joined EA in October 2006 when EA purchased DICE studios where he was the Chief Executive Officer.



Mr. Mosshas served as Chief Technology Officer since July 2014. Prior to joining EA, he served as Vice President of Market Places Technology, Science and Data at eBay Inc. since November 2011. Prior to joining eBay, he co-founded CrowdEye, Inc. in September 2008 and served as its Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Moss graduated from Princeton University with a B.A. in Molecular Biology.



Mr. Bruzzohas served as Chief Marketing Officer since September 2014. Prior to joining EA, he served as Senior Vice President at Starbucks Corporation June 2011 to November 2013 and Vice President from June 2008 to June 2011. Mr. Bruzzo is currently a director of Blue Nile, Inc. Mr. Bruzzo graduated from Whitworth University with a B.A. in Political Studies.



Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. Prior to joining EA in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to EA and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.












Ms. Toledano,our Chief Talent Officer, was hired as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities, in February 2006. Ms. Toledano was promoted to Executive Vice President in April 2007, continuing to lead the same functions. Ms. Toledano also serves on the Board of Directors of TalentSky Inc. and Visier, Inc., privately-held companies.  Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University.



Ms. Bradshawhas served as Senior Vice President, EA Maxis since June 2013. Prior to that time, she held various titles within the Maxis Studio since 1997 including Senior Vice President from February 2011 to June 2013 and Vice President from January 2001 to February 2011. Ms. Bradshaw received her B.A. degree from the University of Michigan.



Mr. Barkerhas served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. From February 2012 to August 2012, he also served as Interim Chief Financial Officer. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining EA, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Barker also serves on the Board of Directors of Corsair Components, Inc. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in Accounting.



Mr. Schatzhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2014. Mr. Schatz joined EA in 1999 and prior to his current role, he served as Deputy General Counsel and as Vice President since 2006. Mr. Schatz earned his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and received his B.A. in Government from Pomona College. Mr. Schatz is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.












