Item 1:Business



Overview



We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of video game machines and electronic devices (which we call “platforms”).  These platforms include video game consoles (such as the Microsoft Xbox 360 and One and the Sony PlayStation 3 and 4), personal computers (“PCs”), and mobile phones and tablets.



Our Strategy

Leverage Core Intellectual Properties

A cornerstone of our strategy is to leverage established intellectual properties (which we call “brands”) to create year-round gaming experiences on multiple platforms, each capable of delivering additional content and revenue over extended periods of time.  As an example, in recent years we have released yearly iterations of our FIFA-branded soccer products for console, PC and mobile platforms; by providing additional content and services for these products, we are able to extend the period of time over which consumers engage with these products.  We also seek to create and similarly leverage new intellectual properties with the potential to become established franchises, such as the EA SPORTS UFC mixed-martial arts product expected to be released in June 2014.



Our portfolio of brands spans a diverse range of categories (including action-adventure, casual, family, fantasy, first-person shooter, horror, science fiction, role-playing, racing, simulation, sports, and strategy) and includes wholly-owned brands such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, Dragon Age, The Sims, Bejeweled and Plants v. Zombies, as well as brands based on licensed intellectual property such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars.



In our experience, leveraging strong brands with mass consumer appeal allows us to create iterative brand-based products and services (e.g., sequels, prequels, spinoffs and installments) that can be sold across a range of platforms to an established consumer base over extended periods of time.

Focused Product Portfolio

In recent years, we have narrowed our product portfolio to reduce costs and to focus on developing products with the potential to become hit products. For example, in fiscal year 2011, we published over 30 titles for console and PC, while in fiscal year 2014 we published 11; in fiscal year 2015, we expect to release 10 titles for console and PC. We have similarly reduced the number of major mobile titles we publish.










Publish on Multiple Platforms

Our ability to deliver our products and services across multiple platforms has been, and will continue to be, another cornerstone of our business strategy.  We believe the ability to successfully publish across multiple platforms is critical to maintaining and growing our overall consumer base, which continues to evolve in response to the introduction of new platforms and platform business models.

•New Consoles.  We are highly focused on developing games and services for Xbox One and PlayStation 4, which were each released in November 2013.  The rates at which consumers purchase these new consoles and our ability to release commercially successful products on them will be critical to our success.

•Legacy Consoles.  Though industry sales of major games for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 declined significantly during our 2014 fiscal year, these legacy platforms maintain a sizeable user base and we expect to continue to develop and market products for each of them in the near term.

•Mobile.  We develop and publish games for mobile phones and tablets (“mobile games”). The market for mobile games addresses a significantly wider demographic than that of games traditionally played on consoles and PCs, has low barriers to entry and is crowded with thousands of product offerings.  We believe the consumer recognition associated with our wholly-owned and licensed brands helps to differentiate our offerings in order to acquire customers in this crowded market.  In addition, our free-to-play, micro-transaction mobile game offerings allow consumers to try and play our games with no up-front cost, reducing a major barrier to initial customer acquisition.

•PC Free-to-Play.  We publish, directly and through publishing partners, free-to-play, micro-transaction-based games that can be played on PCs directly over the Internet such as FIFA Online.  The mass introduction and wide consumer acceptance of free-to-play, micro-transaction-based PC games has created a large addressable market.

•PC & Origin.  We digitally distribute PC downloadable games directly to consumers via our online Origin portal.  The Origin portal, as well as the Origin client application integrated into our PC games, provide opportunities to acquire and maintain direct on-going relationships with consumers.



New online-enabled gaming platforms, such as “micro-consoles” offered in entertainment set-top boxes, have emerged and are expected to continue to emerge in the future.  We intend to evaluate new platform publishing opportunities on a case-by-case basis as they emerge.

Digital Revenue Growth

We are investing in strategies and capabilities that will allow us to enhance our digitally delivered and online-enabled product and service offerings.  Historically, our revenue came mainly from selling disc-based video game products through retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products).  Now, we also derive significant and increasing revenue from the delivery of games, additional content and services through online and wireless networks, which we refer to as “digital revenue.”  For example:

•Consumers can purchase and download our PC games (and those of other publishers) directly through our Origin online platform, as well as through third-party online download stores and services;

•Consumers can purchase and acquire digitally-delivered console games, additional content and enhanced online services directly through Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace;

•Our mobile and PC free-to-play games, which are monetized through discrete digital micro-transactions, are available only through wireless and online delivery; and

•We offer large-scale, massively multi-player online games and game services on a free-to-play and subscription basis.



We believe that digital revenue, which is frequently higher-margin relative to packaged goods sales revenue, will continue to increase in relative and absolute terms.

Direct Consumer Relationship; Games-as-a-Service

We believe establishing and maintaining direct relationships with our consumers and supporting the evolution of a games-as-a-service business model are strategic priorities.

By acquiring direct relationships with consumers, we are able to market products and services in a direct, targeted manner, often in response to purchasing history or playing behavior.  We believe this reduces overall customer acquisition and marketing costs.










With network-connected gameplay and digitally-delivered content, features and services, which have become core elements of the experience we offer to consumers, we are able to update, evolve and refresh our product offerings over extended periods, increasing both consumer engagement and product life.  Additionally, many of our brands offer different products and services on various respective platforms, offering consumers the opportunity to engage with their favorite brands more frequently and at different points in time (e.g., on a console in the home, with a mobile device on the go, and on a PC at work).  As a result, we can offer consumers an always-on, multi-platform, live service organized around one of their favorite brands.

Global Operations

We were initially incorporated in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.

We operate development studios in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games at their own development and production studios. Internationally, we conduct business through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America.

Our North America net revenue was $1,510 million in fiscal year 2014, as compared to $1,701 million in fiscal year 2013 and $1,991 million in fiscal year 2012. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States) decreased by 1 percent to $2,065 million, or 58 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2014, as compared to $2,096 million, or 55 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2013 and as compared to $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2012. We attribute net revenue from external customers to individual countries based on the location of the legal entity that sells the products and/or services. Note that revenue attributed to the legal entity that makes the sale is often not the country where the consumer resides. For example, revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities includes digital revenue from consumers who reside outside of Switzerland, including consumers who reside outside of Europe. Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities during

fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012

represents

$1,171 million

,

$885 million

and

$589 million

or

33 percent

,

23 percent

and

14 percent

of our total net revenue, respectively. Revenue generated in the United States represents over

99 percent

of our total North America net revenue. There were no other countries with net revenue greater than

10 percent

. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report.

In fiscal year 2014, revenue from sales ofFIFA 14represented approximately 15 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2013, revenue from sales ofFIFA 13represented approximately 17 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2012, revenue from sales ofFIFA 12andBattlefield 3represented approximately 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively of our total net revenue.

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, research and development expenses were $1,125 million, $1,153 million and $1,180 million, respectively.

Our Operating Structure

Our studios and development teams are organized around three divisions: EA Studios, Maxis, and EA Mobile.  Each division operates globally with support from our Global Publishing and Marketing organization.

EA Studios

EA Studios is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams and responsible for developing games and related content and services across an expansive range of game categories.  The FIFA, Madden NFL, Need for Speed, Battlefield, Mass Effect and Dragon Age franchises fall within the EA Studios organization.  The largest studios within the EA Studios organization include:

•DICE (Sweden)

•EA Canada (Canada)

•Tiburon (United States)

•BioWare (Canada and United States)

•Visceral (United States)










The diverse studios within the EA Studios organization have the goal of operating as one collaborative organization through the use of common technologies and shared development frameworks.  We may also contract with external game developers for development services or to establish publishing and distribution relationships, such as the one we have with Respawn Entertainment related toTitanfall.

Maxis

Our Maxis organization focuses on creating compelling games and related content and services that engage player creativity. Maxis products include the wholly-owned franchises The Sims and SimCity. Maxis games are primarily developed at studios in the United States.

EA Mobile

Our EA Mobile organization develops and publishes interactive games for play on mobile phones and tablets, as well as certain casual games for the PC. The Mobile organization’s brand portfolio includes wholly owned properties such as Plants vs. Zombies, Real Racing, Bejeweled and Dungeon Keeper, as well licensed intellectual properties such as Tetris, The Simpsons and various intellectual properties owned by Hasbro.  The EA Mobile organization also manages our Pogo online service, through which we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word games on www.pogo.com, as well as on other platforms. Pogo generates revenue through paid subscriptions, Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content. The EA Mobile organization has studios located in the United States, Canada, China, Australia and India. Certain mobile games, such as those related to our EA SPORTS franchises, are developed primarily by the EA Studios organization.

Global Publishing and Marketing

Our Global Publishing and Marketing organization is responsible for the distribution, sales, and marketing of our products, including strategic planning, operations, and manufacturing functions.  The organization also manages our global media advertising sales business and customer support teams.  Mobile game publishing is overseen by our EA Mobile organization.

Competition

We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.

Competition in Games for Console Devices and PCs

We compete directly with Sony and Microsoft, each of which develops and publishes software for its respective console platform. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop and publish premium video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Disney are also involved in software game development and publishing.

Competition in Games for Mobile Devices

The marketplace for mobile games is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, new mobile application storefronts and thousands of game offerings. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications are currently being offered by a wide range of competitors, including King, Supercell, DeNA, Gameloft and Zynga, and hundreds of smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to continue to intensify.










Competition in PC Free-to-Play Online Gaming Services

The PC free-to-play games market is characterized by frequent product introductions. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing PC free-to-play online game services. As a result, we expect competition in this market to intensify.   Our competitors in this market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games such as Tencent and Nexon.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games - we call this form of intellectual property “content.”

We develop products and services from wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios and obtain through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and players’ associations, movie studios and performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and mobile devices, or other proprietary platforms may include technology that is owned by the device manufacturer or platform operator and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from other providers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.

We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to our software code and content, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute our PC products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Relationships

Channel Partners

Sony. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with PlayStation 3 and 4. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into a new licensed publisher agreement with Sony for PlayStation 4, and the parties currently operate under the terms of existing agreements subject to a new pricing structure with respect to PlayStation 4.

Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with Xbox 360 and Xbox One.  Our publisher license agreement with Microsoft to publish our products for Xbox One is included in Exhibit 10.27 of this Form 10-K.

Under the agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions for disc-based products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be.  Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft - such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, platform policies and approval conditions - are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured.  With respect to digitally-delivered products,










other online content and services sold by the console manufacturers, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a percentage royalty on the revenue they derive from their sales.

The platform license agreements also require us to indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The manufacturers are not obligated to enter into platform license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services.

Apple, Google and Other App Stores.We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through distribution partners worldwide, including Apple and Google. Consumers download our applications for their mobile devices from third party-application storefronts. The distributor invoices the consumers a one-time fee if there is a cost to download the application. If the application is a “free-to-download” application, the distributor invoices the consumer for micro-transactions that are purchased by the consumer within the application. Our distribution agreements establish the fees to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications.

Retailers

In North America and Europe, our largest markets, we sell packaged goods products to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Walmart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop).

Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 13 percent, 13 percent and 15 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Our direct sales to Walmart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2012. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. did not exceed 10 percent of net revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There are no minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and either GameStop or Wal-Mart.

As our business becomes increasingly digital, more of our products and services are purchased from a digital retailer and delivered via a network connection.  Our digital retail outlets include Origin (our direct-to-consumer platform), mobile application storefronts, the digital marketplaces operated by Sony for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 and Microsoft for Xbox 360 and Xbox One, and various third party retailers offering digital game downloads.

Seasonality

Our business is highly seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled games over an extended period of time. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our revenue recognition policies.

Government Regulation

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world.

Employees

As of March 31, 2014, we had approximately 8,300 regular, full-time employees, over 4,800 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 7 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union.










Investor Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.



Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as ofMay 21, 2014:NameAgePositionLawrence F. Probst III63Executive ChairmanAndrew Wilson39Chief Executive OfficerBlake Jorgensen54Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerPeter R. Moore59Chief Operating OfficerPatrick Söderlund40Executive Vice President, EA StudiosFrank D. Gibeau45Executive Vice President, EA MobileJoel Linzner62Executive Vice President, Business and Legal AffairsGabrielle Toledano47Executive Vice President, Chief Talent OfficerLucy Bradshaw51Senior Vice President, EA MaxisKenneth A. Barker47Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting OfficerStephen G. Bené50Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Mr. Probsthas been our Executive Chairman since March 18, 2013. He was employed by EA previously from 1984 to September 2008. He has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since July 1994 and, from May 1991 until April 2007, also served as our Chief Executive Officer. Previously, Mr. Probst served as President from 1991 until 1998. Mr. Probst serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Olympic Committee and is a member of the International Olympic Committee. Mr. Probst is also a director of Blackhawk Network Holdings, Inc. Mr. Probst holds a B.S. degree from the University of Delaware.



Mr. Wilsonwas named Chief Executive Officer and appointed to the Board of Directors in September 2013. From August 2011 to September 2013, he served as Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS. From March 2010 to August 2011, Mr. Wilson served as Senior Vice President, EA SPORTS. Prior to that, he held the position of Senior Vice President Online from July 2009 to September 2010 and Vice President, EA SPORTS from June 2008 to September 2009. Prior to this, Mr. Wilson held various positions within the Company since joining Electronic Arts in May 2000.



Mr. Jorgensenhas served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2012. Prior to joining EA, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. from July 2009 to August 2012. From June 2007 to June 2009, Mr. Jorgensen served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Yahoo! Inc. Mr. Jorgensen earned his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and his Economics degree from Stanford University.



Mr. Moorewas named Chief Operating Officer in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA SPORTS, from September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined EA, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor's degree from Keele University, United Kingdom, and a Master's degree from California State University, Long Beach.



Mr. Söderlundwas named Executive Vice President, EA Studios in September 2013. Prior to that time, he served as Executive Vice President, EA Games Label from August 2011. From December 2010 to July 2011, he served as Executive Vice President, Group General Manager - FPS/Driving. Prior to that, Mr. Söderlund held the position of Senior Vice President, EA Games Europe from September 2007 to December 2010 and the Chief Executive Officer of DICE until September 2007. Mr. Söderlund joined DICE in 2000. The studio was sold to EA in October 2006.












Mr. Gibeauwas named Executive Vice President, EA Mobile in September 2013. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA Labels from August 2011. From June 2007 until August 2011, he served as President, EA Games Label. From September 2005 until June 2007, he was Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing. Mr. Gibeau has held various positions since joining the Company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.



Mr. Linznerhas served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. Prior to joining EA in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to EA and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.



Ms. Toledano, our Chief Talent Officer, was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities on April 1, 2007. From February 2006 until March 2007, Ms. Toledano served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources & Facilities. Ms. Toledano also serves on the Board of Directors of Big City Mountaineers.  Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University.



Ms. Bradshawwas named Senior Vice President, EA Maxis in June 2013. Prior to that time, she held various titles within the Maxis Studio since 1997 including Senior Vice President from February 2011 to June 2013 and Vice President from January 2001 to February 2011. Ms. Bradshaw received her B.A. degree from the University of Michigan.



Mr. Barkerhas served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. From February 2012 to August 2012, he also served as Interim Chief Financial Officer. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining EA, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in Accounting.



Mr. Benéhas served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. Mr. Bené joined EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a member of the Bar of the State of California.
















