
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------
(MARK ONE)
 
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997
 
                                       OR
 
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                    FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM        TO
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-45138
 
                                 SYNOPSYS, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
                           700 EAST MIDDLEFIELD ROAD
                      MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA 94043-4033
          (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES, INCLUDING ZIP CODE)
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (650) 962-5000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                         COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE
                        PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  [X] Yes  [ ] No
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of November 21, 1997, was approximately $2,162,624,000.
 
     On November 21, 1997, approximately 53,224,000 shares of the registrant's
Common Stock, $0.01 par value, were outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     (1) Portions of the registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts I,
II and IV hereof.
 
     (2) Portions of the registrant's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy
Statement for the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
February 27, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.
================================================================================

 
     Except for the historical information presented, the matters discussed in
this Form 10-K include forward looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from
those projected in the forward looking statements as a result of risk factors
that include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Factors
That May Affect Future Results" under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's 1997 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and
is included in Exhibit 13.1 hereto, as well as factors discussed elsewhere in
this Form 10-K.
 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
INTRODUCTION
 
     Synopsys, Inc. (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Company") was
incorporated in Delaware in May 1987 to develop, market, and support electronic
design automation ("EDA") products for designers of integrated circuits ("ICs")
and electronic systems. The Company offers a range of design tools, verification
tools and systems, design reuse products and physical design tools that
significantly improve designers' productivity by offering improved time to
market, reduced development and manufacturing costs, and enhanced design quality
of results when compared to earlier generations of EDA products. The Company
also provides training, support and consulting services for its customers.
 
     The foundation of the Company's design methodology is logic synthesis.
Logic synthesis allows designers to use a high-level language to describe a
chip, then automatically convert and optimize this high-level description into a
gate-level format that can be manufactured by a semiconductor company. The
Company's design tools also include test and timing analysis products.
 
     The Company's verification systems products are used by IC designers in
several stages of system design to help ensure that their ICs will work before
they are manufactured. The Company is a leading provider of software and
hardware models, which are used to test IC designs within the context of the
system into which they will be designed or to simulate the performance of an
entire system or subset of a system before manufacturing. The Company's
simulation products permit engineers to simulate their designs at various stages
of the design process (behavioral, register-transfer and gate-levels).
 
     The Company's design reuse products are intended to reduce design time by
permitting the straight-forward reuse of previously-proven circuit "blocks." The
Company believes design reuse will be a key to increased productivity of IC
designers as the density and complexity of ICs increase. The Company's design
reuse products include its DesignWare(R) library of synthesizable standard parts
and its proprietary Cell-Based Array ("CBA") IC architecture, libraries and
compilers, which are licensed to semiconductor manufacturers.
 
     The Company's physical design tools include a family of software tools that
assist designers in addressing at the transistor level the timing, power and
reliability requirements of an IC. As semiconductor technology advances and IC
complexity increases, transistor-level verification is becoming an increasingly
important phase of the IC design process.
 
     The Company markets its products on a worldwide basis and offers
comprehensive customer service, education, consulting, and support as integral
components of its product offerings. Products primarily are marketed through its
direct sales force. The Company has licensed its products to many of the world's
leading semiconductor, computer, communications and electronics companies.
 
INDUSTRY BACKGROUND
 
     EDA products have played a critical role in accelerating the dramatic
advances in the electronics industry over the past two decades.
 

 
     For the past 26 years, IC complexity (as measured by the number of
transistors on a chip) has increased by a factor of 10 every six years -- a
formula known in the semiconductor industry as Moore's Law (for the founder of
Intel Corporation). The need for EDA resulted from this increasing complexity,
as well as increased complexity of the electronic systems in which ICs are used
and the scarcity of skilled IC design engineers. Increased IC complexity
lengthened the product design and development cycles while, at the same time,
competition shortened product life cycles. The objectives of EDA are to (a)
reduce time to market, (b) reduce the costs associated with product design and
development, (c) improve the performance and density of complex IC designs, and
(d) improve the predictability of IC manufacture and testing.
 
     The electronic design process encompasses five basic stages:
 
     - Determine the architecture of the system (system design);
 
     - Develop behavioral descriptions of various system elements (behavioral
       design);
 
     - Specify the desired architecture of an IC (functional design);
 
     - Develop schematic diagrams of logic gates that implement this
       functionality (logic or gate-level design); and
 
     - Layout the individual transistors and interconnect wires that implement
       the logic, which results in mask sets used to manufacture the IC (layout
       or device design).
 
     Prior to EDA, this entire process was manual, time consuming, prone to
error, and costly, thus limiting design complexity. In the 1960s and early
1970s, "complex" IC designs consisted of a few hundred logic gates (one logic
gate is equal to approximately four transistors). The EDA industry has evolved
over the past twenty years to automate a significant portion of the design
process, resulting in dramatic productivity increases. Each new generation of
design methods has been based on an enabling technology that provided an
automated linkage between design stages and raised the level of design
abstraction at which designers worked, thus facilitating the design of more
complex ICs by a broader range of designers.
 
     The first generation of EDA, computer-aided design ("CAD"), automated the
layout process using dedicated mainframe or high-powered minicomputer systems,
allowing circuit designers to create ICs of several thousand logic gates. In the
late 1970s and early 1980s, computer-aided engineering ("CAE") emerged as the
second generation of EDA, with electronic design capture at the logic gate-level
instead of the layout or device level. By the mid-1980s, most IC design was
accomplished using workstation-based CAE tools for schematic capture, gate-level
simulation, and automated placement and routing. In the late 1980s, as
semiconductor process technology advanced, it became possible to manufacture ICs
with hundreds of thousands of gates. Consequently, a new generation of EDA tools
was required that let designers work at even higher levels of abstraction.
 
     Logic synthesis provided the means for working at a functional level rather
than gate level, and thereby became the focal point of the third generation of
IC design. Using hardware description languages ("HDLs") that permit the
expression of design ideas and functionality at a level independent of silicon
implementation, logic synthesis employs advanced computational algorithms for
Boolean logic manipulation and optimization, timing analysis, and technology
mapping.
 
     Logic synthesis offers significant reductions in circuit area and
improvements in critical path timing compared to results achieved by designers
using traditional CAE tools. In addition, logic synthesis supports technology
independent design, giving designers a wide array of options in choosing
semiconductor suppliers. Due to the automated nature of the synthesis process,
logic synthesis also allows designers to efficiently explore architectural
alternatives by merely changing the high-level description or reusing high-level
descriptions from one design to another. Synthesis also can be used to migrate
designs from one technology to another (e.g., CMOS 0.5-micron to CMOS
0.25-micron technology) or retarget from one implementation approach to another
(e.g., FPGA to ASIC (application specific IC)).
 
     Semiconductor process technology has continued to advance into the 1990s.
Chip complexity and density have continued to increase accordingly. Functions
that historically have been implemented in separate ICs and
 

 
integrated on a printed circuit board are increasingly being implemented and
integrated on a single chip, a so-called "system-on-a-chip." At the same time,
the competitive pressures faced by computer, telecommunications, electronics,
automotive and appliance companies and other designers and consumers of ICs have
made design productivity and time-to-market even more critical factors in
selecting IC design methods and tools.
 
STRATEGY
 
     The Company's strategy is to lead the evolution of electronic design by
providing methodologies, products and services that maximize the productivity of
its customers. In order to execute this strategy, the Company seeks to develop a
balanced portfolio of design tools that continue to raise the level of
abstraction at which IC developers work and perform superior optimization of IC
design for speed, size and power, provide superior tools to assist in the
verification of IC designs early in the design cycle, enable the large-scale
reuse of intellectual property, including system-on-a-chip ICs, assist in
meeting the design challenges created by deep submicron and nanometer technology
and provide high quality support, education and consulting services that meet
the needs of its customers.
 
PRODUCT GROUPS AND PRODUCTS
 
  Design Tools Group
 
     The Company's design tools consist principally of its core logic synthesis
product, Design Compiler(TM), and a suite of high-level design and verification
products. Logic synthesis automates the creation of IC logic from a high-level
circuit description, thereby reducing design time, and permits IC designers to
optimize design for size, speed and power consumption and to explore
architectural tradeoffs early in the design process, thereby improving quality
of results. Verification is the process of ensuring that an IC meets the
functional specifications and timing requirements of its design, and that it
will work with the other components of a system, before it is manufactured. As
IC complexity grows, the importance of verification to the chip design process
also grows. Without adequate verification tools, verification can be a serious
bottleneck in the design process.
 
     Design Compiler is the market-leading logic synthesis tool and is currently
used by a broad range of companies engaged in the design of ICs and field
programmable gate arrays ("FPGAs") to optimize their designs for performance and
chip area. Design Compiler was introduced in 1988 and has been updated regularly
since then. In fiscal year 1997 the Company released Synopsys 97(TM), a
significant upgrade to the Design Complier product family. Synopsys 97 includes
over 100 performance enhancements initiated by requests from the Company's
customers, plus a new capability for handling engineering change orders late in
the design process.
 
     Synopsys' Behavioral Compiler(TM), which runs "on top" of Design Compiler,
permits designers to create complex circuits in a high-level shorthand and then
helps them explore design tradeoffs and pick the best architecture, thereby
permitting them to work at a higher level of abstraction than does Design
Compiler. Behavioral Compiler was introduced in 1994 and was embraced by only a
handful of early adopters. It has gained market acceptance as designers have
gradually begun to explore the benefits of behavioral synthesis. Users of
Behavioral Compiler have reported significant reductions in architecture design
time (an important component of overall design time), while achieving
improvements in performance and area.
 
     In fiscal year 1997, the Company introduced PrimeTime(TM), a full-chip
static timing analysis tool that provides customers with essential design
verification capabilities. PrimeTime ensures that as a design advances from
synthesis (high-level design) to transistor-level implementation, all
timing-critical paths can be clearly understood and verified. The ability to
coherently track timing progress throughout a design is critical to meeting
project goals. PrimeTime has been very well received by initial users and has
been adopted by several ASIC vendors for static timing sign-off.
 
     Power Compiler(TM), introduced in fiscal year 1996 to address customers'
concerns regarding IC power consumption, continued to gain market acceptance in
fiscal year 1997 and has become the market-leading power optimization synthesis
tool. Power Compiler permits IC designers to optimize their designs for power
 

 
consumption, which is especially important in the design of portable,
battery-powered devices such as laptop computers and cellular telephones.
 
     During fiscal year 1997 the Company continued to expand the distribution
channel for its FPGA Express(TM) product. FPGA Express, introduced in fiscal
year 1996, is Synopsys' logic synthesis tool for high-density FPGAs and complex
programmable logic devices ("CPLDs") and is the Company's first product to run
on the Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems, reflecting the fact that
personal computers are the predominant platform for FPGA and CPLD designs.
 
     The Company's other design tools are integrated with Design Compiler to
offer a comprehensive design environment. RTL Analyzer lets IC designers analyze
and improve their source code before synthesis and simulation runs. The
Company's test synthesis software permits designers to generate high-quality
test patterns and moves IC design testing from the final stages of the design
process to the high-level design process, thus permitting earlier detection of
design defects. The Company's floor-planning management product acts as a
high-level link to the layout process by taking physical design data into
consideration during synthesis.
 
     Synopsys' COSSAP(R) product is a second-generation digital signal
processing ("DSP") design system targeted at designers of digital communications
devices such as cellular telephones. COSSAP can simulate large, complex,
high-level systems that would be hard to model with standard cycle-based or
event-driven simulators, and includes a library of DSP building blocks.
 
     The Company's high-level verification products include Cyclone, introduced
in September 1996, and VHDL System Simulator ("VSS"). Cyclone is "cycle-based"
simulation software, which permits IC designers to simulate their designs using
high-level algorithms at the register-transfer level, which is faster and
requires less memory than current tools. VSS is used at various stages in the
high-level design process to simulate a system or subsystem to simulate the
performance of an IC within a system. VSS and Cyclone are both tightly linked to
the Company's synthesis products.
 
     In order to address the challenges posed by increasing IC complexity and
advances in IC technology, in fiscal year 1996 Synopsys and IBM formed an
alliance to jointly develop products in the areas of design planning, timing,
test and synthesis, and the Company acquired a license to use certain IBM
technology. PrimeTime, Synopsys' recently introduced timing analysis software,
is the first product to be developed under the IBM relationship. In addition,
the Company was selected by SEMATECH, a consortium of the leading U.S.
semiconductor manufacturers, as the prime contractor on a $6 million contract to
deliver next generation tools for designing complex ICs at 0.25-micron and
below. Work on the SEMATECH project continued in fiscal year 1997.
 
  Logic Modeling Group
 
     Since the Company's February 1994 merger with Logic Modeling Corporation,
the Company has offered a full range of hardware and software modeling
solutions. Synopsys' ModelSource(TM) 3000 series is a family of hardware
modeling systems for ASIC and board level design which provide a flexible means
for designers to model complex devices. ModelSource 3000 systems use the actual
integrated circuit to model its own behavior. Synopsys' SmartModel(R) Libraries
offer models for more than 13,000 commercially available ICs, including a wide
range of microprocessors, controllers, DSPs, FPGAs, CPLDs, peripherals, memories
and standard logic. The Company's bus interface models are used to verify that
designs comply with established industry standards. Models are available for
most popular standards. In addition, the Company offers modeling technologies to
allow designers to create models of both standard and proprietary devices. These
models support all major EDA simulation environments and a wide range of EDA
platforms, giving designers access to a broad range of models to assist them
with verification of their designs.
 
     Success in the modeling business depends, in part, upon making available a
wide range of models and model types. The Company continues to focus its
modeling development efforts on enhancing its ability to quickly and efficiently
produce and distribute new models to meet rising verification needs. The Company
seeks to maintain close relationships with leading semiconductor vendors to
ensure model accuracy and the
 

 
earliest possible availability. The Company believes that future design
verification methodologies, including those for system-on-a-chip, will require
the availability of accurate, high performance models of complex components and
intellectual property blocks.
 
  Design Architects Group
 
     As the number of logic gates on ICs continues to grow, and as ICs
themselves become capable of hosting entire systems rather than single
functions, the reuse of proven design modules will become increasingly important
to IC designers. Synopsys' Design Architects group offers products that enable
reuse of designs and integration of complex blocks on a single piece of silicon,
known as the system-on-a-chip. Design Architects group contains two business
units, Silicon Architects and Design Reuse.
 
  Silicon Architects
 
     Since the Company's acquisition of Silicon Architects in May 1995, it has
offered a proprietary IC architecture, known as Cell-Based Array ("CBA"),
compilers for high-level memories and data path elements and other tools. The
CBA architecture offers semiconductor vendors the customization advantages of
gate array architecture with the density, performance and power advantages of
standard cell design. The CBA Macrocell Libraries consists of optimized
libraries of low level elements in an IC. Macrocell and datapath compilers
generate optimized general purpose functions for an IC and permit optimization
for size, performance and power consumption. Tools are also available to
facilitate porting of complex IC blocks from one process technology to another
and to embed functional blocks into complex system-on-a-chip designs.
 
     The Company licenses CBA technology and tools to ASIC manufacturers and
adapts the libraries for use in the manufacturer's particular production
process. The CBA libraries are then used in lieu of the manufacturer's
proprietary library. Replacing vendor-specific libraries with optimized CBA
libraries can provide cost benefits to ASIC vendors by reducing the silicon area
required for a given design and can provide improved performance and power
consumption levels compared to other IC architectures. The CBA architecture also
offers the Company's customers a link between synthesis-based high-level design
and the physical implementation of designs. The Company has entered into CBA
license agreements with many of the world's leading ASIC vendors. In addition to
licensing semiconductor manufacturers, the Company also licenses a CBA design
system to independent design houses and end users in order to facilitate and
increase the number of designs that target the CBA technology.
 
     In June 1997 the Company entered into an agreement with Mentor pursuant to
which the two companies will work together on developing an industry-standard
methodology for the development of reusable IC cores. Under the agreement, the
companies will produce a reuse methodology manual which is based on Synopsys
synthesis tools for the creation of such blocks and targets CBA as the IC
technology of choice. In addition, Mentor Graphics' Inventra business unit will
prove its soft cores in CBA and make such CBA-proven soft cores available to its
customers.
 
  Design Reuse
 
     The Design Reuse Group offers a wide range of reusable design modules,
tools for creating reusable design blocks and design reuse consulting services.
 
     Synopsys' DesignWare products provide IC designers with libraries of
pre-designed and pre-verified off-the-shelf design modules to incorporate into
their own designs. DesignWare libraries include commonly used functions ranging
from simple modules, such as multipliers, to more complex functions. DesignWare
libraries are flexible, ready-to-use digital components that are
technology-independent, parameterizable and synthesizable (i.e., usable by
Synopsys' design tools in optimizing a design). By providing these building
blocks and making them synthesizable, DesignWare helps reduce the overall design
time for complex ICs. The reuse of these building blocks represents a
significant shift from traditional IC design, in which designs have been
intimately tied to a particular process technology or design methodology and not
easily transferred from one chip design to the next. By the end of fiscal year
1997, over 100 design modules were available in
 

 
DesignWare libraries. The Company intends to make more modules available and to
increase the size and functions of the available modules.
 
     In addition to the DesignWare libraries of basic functions, the Company
offers DesignWare Macrocells -- complex, reusable, ready-to-use digital
components that are technology-independent, parameterizable and synthesizable.
These include functions like the 8051 microcontroller and PCI 2.1 bus interface
blocks. Like the DesignWare libraries, these macrocells are tightly coupled to
Synopsys' high-level design environment.
 
     DesignWare Developer(TM) helps customers develop their own DesignWare
components from which they can build an inventory of design knowledge that can
be leveraged across multiple development teams or in subsequent design cycles.
 
  EPIC Technology Group
 
     As ICs themselves are becoming more powerful and more complex, the size of
the transistors and wires contained on those ICs is getting smaller. At the
"deep submicron" scale (i.e., wire widths of 0.25 micron and below), the
electrical characteristics of an IC begin to change, which imposes new
challenges on IC designers and increases the importance of analysis and
verification tools that operate at the transistor level of the IC design
process. Since Synopsys' February 1997 merger with EPIC, the Company has offered
its customers a family of characterization, simulation, analysis, extraction and
physical verification software tools and services to assist in meeting these
design challenges. Together the products permit designers to address at the
transistor level the timing, power and reliability requirements of an IC. EPIC
release 5.1, which began shipping in August 1997, includes improvements in
accuracy, capacity and runtime: three critical areas to customers engaged in
high-density transistor-level design. The EPIC Technology Group's principal
products include:
 
          TimeMill is a transistor-level simulator and dynamic timing analyzer.
     Used interactively in the prelayout phase, TimeMill helps designers
     optimize the performance of transistor level blocks, memories and
     datapaths. TimeMill allows the designer to quickly explore changes in
     voltage levels, temperature or process parameters to improve design
     quality. After layout, TimeMill detects problems such as charge sharing and
     race conditions which are more prevalent in advanced silicon IC design.
 
          PowerMill(TM) simulates block and full chip current and power
     behavior, providing fast and accurate current and power analysis and power
     diagnostics. PowerMill offers static and dynamic diagnostics to identify
     design flaws that cause unnecessary power consumption. After layout,
     PowerMill helps designers
     confirm that power consumption is acceptable before committing the design
     to silicon.
 
          The Analog Circuit Engine ("ACE"), introduced in fiscal 1997, is an
     analog simulation option available for TimeMill and PowerMill tools
     (versions 5.0 and later). When used with TimeMill or PowerMill, ACE
     provides a mixed A/D circuit simulation solution for IC designers to
     develop improved designs for next-generation deep submicron and nanometer
     devices.
 
          PathMill is a static timing tool that provides a detailed critical
     path analysis and static timing verification capability. PathMill provides
     accurate and flexible modeling for mixed level static timing analysis.
     PathMill's behavioral, gate and transistor level models allow accurate
     analysis at each level of the design hierarchy, allowing the user to mix
     top-down design and bottom-up implementation.
 
          Arcadia(TM), introduced in November 1995, provides full chip and
     net-by-net RC extraction, and thereby permits designers to invest analysis
     time on critical paths and spend less time on the segments that do not
     require in-depth analysis. Arcadia is specifically designed for the
     advanced silicon designer working on complex, high-performance custom,
     structured custom or ASIC projects. In fiscal 1997, Synopsys released a
     significant update to Arcadia, which offers twice the speed and three times
     more capacity than the previous version and permits distributed processing,
     which makes it possible for customers to significantly shorten runtimes.
 
          AMPS, introduced in January 1996, simultaneously optimizes power,
     delay and area in digital CMOS circuits. AMPS automatically resizes
     transistors, making individual transistors larger or smaller
 

 
     to find the combination that will best meet user-defined power, speed and
     area goals without changing the functionality of the design.
 
          DelayMill(TM), introduced in fiscal 1997, enables accurate timing
     verification at the transistor level. DelayMill is an advanced delay
     calculation system for IC, which calculates layout parasitics and
     interconnect delay effects, and is specially useful for IC designers
     working with multi-million transistor designs in nanometer silicon.
     PowerArc and PowerGate, also introduced in fiscal 1997, are complementary
     products which together provide power analysis capabilities at both the
     gate- and transistor-level of IC design.
 
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT
 
     The Company devotes substantial resources to providing customers with
technical support, customer education, and consulting services. The Company
believes that a high level of customer service and support is critical to the
adoption and successful utilization of its high-level design automation
methodology.
 
     As a result of the continued growth of the Company's installed base, as
well as customer requests for education, support and consulting services, the
Company's service revenue has increased as a percentage of total revenue,
representing 31%, 33% and 36% of total revenue in fiscal 1995, 1996 and 1997,
respectively.
 
  Consulting
 
     The Company provides consulting services through its Professional Services
Group, which offers customized high-level design support for IC and systems
designs. Synopsys consultants are experienced designers who provide customers
with in-depth technical expertise in the use of Synopsys' HLDA methodology and
tools. Synopsys offers both methodology and project consulting. Methodology
consulting is aimed at increasing customer productivity, promoting the adoption
of the Company's HLDA methodology and solving immediate needs of customers'
design teams. Project consulting involves Synopsys experts working with customer
design teams from design implementation through simulation, synthesis and
tapeout.
 
  Technical Support
 
     Technical support is provided through both field- and corporate-based
technical application engineering groups. The Company provides customers with
software updates and a formal problem identification and resolution process
through the Synopsys Technical Support Center. The Company's central entry point
of all customer inquiries is SOLV-IT!(R), a direct-access service available
worldwide, 24 hours per day, through electronic mail and the World Wide Web that
lets customers quickly seek answers to design questions or more insight into
design problems. SOLV-IT! combines Synopsys' complete design knowledge database
with sophisticated information retrieval technology. Updated daily, it includes
documentation, design tips, and answers to user questions.
 
  Customer Education Services
 
     The Company offers a number of workshops focused on high-level design,
simulation, behavioral synthesis, logic synthesis, and test. Regularly scheduled
workshops are offered in Mountain View, California; Austin, Texas; Burlington,
Massachusetts; Reading, England; Rungis, France; Munich, Germany; Tokyo and
Osaka, Japan; and Seoul, Korea. On-site workshops are available on a worldwide
basis at customers' facilities. To date, over 15,000 design engineers have been
trained in the use of Synopsys' products through participation in Company
workshops.
 
PRODUCT WARRANTIES
 
     The Company generally warrants its products to be free from defects in
media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90
days. The Company has not experienced significant returns to date.
 

 
SUPPORT FOR INDUSTRY STANDARDS
 
     The Company actively supports standards that it believes will help its
customers increase productivity and solve design problems, including support for
key standards that promote system-on-chip design and facilitate interoperability
of tools from different vendors.
 
     The Company's products support the two most commonly used hardware
description languages, VHDL and Verilog HDL, and industry standard data formats
for the exchange of data between Synopsys' tools and other EDA products. The
Company donated its SWIFT modeling interface to the Open Modeling Forum to
establish a common simulator interface for models written in various formats.
 
     The Company is the prime contractor for SEMATECH's Chip Hierarchical Design
System, which is predicated on open standards and tool interoperability.
Synopsys is a member of the Virtual Socket Interface Alliance ("VSIA"), an
industry group formed to promote standards that facilitate the integration and
reuse of functional blocks of intellectual property, and has representatives on
the VSIA's Steering Working Group and several Development Working Groups. A
representative of Synopsys is on the Board of Directors of the standards groups
Open Verilog International, VHDL International, OMF, and Silicon Integration
Initiative and participates in standards activities conducted by these and other
leading EDA industry bodies.
 
     The Company's products are written mainly in the C language and utilize the
Motif and X11 standards for graphical user interfaces. The Company's software
runs principally under the UNIX operating system and is offered on the most
widely used workstation platforms, including those from Sun Microsystems,
Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Digital Equipment Corporation and Sony. Certain of the
Company's software modeling products and its FPGA Express product run on the
Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems.
 
SALES, DISTRIBUTION AND BACKLOG
 
     The Company markets its products and services primarily through its direct
sales and service force in over 30 offices in the United States and principal
international markets. Synopsys employs highly skilled engineers and technically
proficient sales persons capable of serving the sophisticated needs of the
customers' engineering and management staffs.
 
     For fiscal years 1995, 1996 and 1997, international sales represented 51%,
48% and 45%, respectively, of the Company's total revenue. Additional
information relating to domestic and foreign operations is contained in Note 7
of Notes to Synopsys Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     As of September 30, 1997, the Company's direct sales and service force
consisted of 563 management, technical and administrative employees. The Company
has 18 sales/support centers throughout the United States. Internationally, the
Company has sales/support offices in Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the People's Republic of China, Singapore,
Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, including regional headquarters offices
in Germany, Japan and Singapore. On a limited basis, the Company also utilizes
manufacturer's representatives and distributors. The Company has established
such relationships in Australia, Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Malaysia and
Singapore.
 
     The Company's backlog was approximately $207.2 million on November 1, 1997,
as compared to $185.9 million on November 2, 1996. In fiscal 1996, the Company's
backlog included orders for customer training and consulting services which were
expected to be completed within one year, orders for system and software
products sold under long-term licenses with customer requested ship dates within
twelve months, and time-based licenses, subscription services, maintenance and
support which are expected to be recognized as revenue within fifteen months.
Effective at the beginning of fiscal year 1997, the Company amended its order
acceptance policy relative to system and software products sold under long-term
licenses and currently includes in backlog only those orders with customer
requested ship dates within three months rather than twelve months. This
amendment to the order acceptance policy was implemented prospectively and the
backlog number for fiscal 1996 has not been adjusted. Upon consummation of the
Company's merger with EPIC, the EPIC backlog was added to that of Synopsys. The
backlog at November 2, 1996, noted above, has been restated to reflect the
combined Synopsys and EPIC backlog and has not been adjusted for differences in
the two companies' methods of backlog calculation. EPIC orders received
subsequent to the merger were
 

 
accepted under the current order acceptance policy. The Company has not
historically experienced significant cancellations of orders. Customers
frequently reschedule or revise the requested ship dates of orders, however,
which can have the effect of deferring recognition of revenue for these orders
beyond the expected time period.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company believes that its future performance will depend in large part
on its ability to maintain and enhance its current product lines, develop new
products, maintain technological competitiveness, and meet an expanding range of
customer requirements. In addition to product development teams, the Company
maintains an advanced research group that is responsible for exploring new
directions and applications of its core technologies, migrating new technologies
into the existing product lines, and maintaining strong research relationships
outside the Company both within industry and academia. Relationships are
maintained with third-party software and hardware vendors to broaden the product
lines without direct investment and with all major hardware vendors on whose
platforms the Company's products operate.
 
     During fiscal 1995, 1996 and 1997, research and development expenses were
$64.6 million, $94.8 million and $115.0 million, respectively, net of
capitalized software development costs. Synopsys capitalized software
development costs of approximately $1.0 million in each of fiscal 1995, 1996,
and 1997. The Company anticipates that it will continue to commit substantial
resources to research and development in the future.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     The Company's manufacturing operations consist of assembling, testing,
packaging and shipping its system and software products and documentation needed
to fulfill each order. Manufacturing is currently performed in Synopsys'
Mountain View, California and Beaverton, Oregon, facilities. Outside vendors
provide tape and CD-ROM duplication, printing of documentation and manufacturing
of packaging materials. The manufacturing and test of system products is done by
Company employees, with some sub-assembly performed by outside vendors. The
Company typically ships its software products, with either a permanent or
temporary access key, within 10 days of acceptance of customer purchase orders
and execution of software license agreements, unless the customer has requested
otherwise. For its system products, the Company buys components in anticipation
of orders and builds units to match orders, typically shipping within four to
twelve weeks of order acceptance, unless the customer has requested otherwise.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The EDA industry is highly competitive. The other principal companies in
the EDA industry are Cadence Design Systems, Inc. ("Cadence"), Mentor Graphics
Corporation, Avanti! Corporation ("Avanti!") and Quickturn Design Systems, Inc.
There are many other companies in the EDA industry and frequent new entrants,
including businesses targeted at Synopsys' product areas.
 
     The Company's products compete with similar products from other vendors and
compete with other EDA products and services for a share of the EDA budgets of
their customers. The Company's products also compete with customers' internally
developed design tools and design capabilities. The Company believes that the
principal competitive factors in the EDA industry are product performance,
technology leadership, methodology support, technical support, support of
industry standards, price and reputation. The Company believes that it currently
competes favorably with respect to these factors.
 
     To date, the majority of the Company's revenue has resulted from sales of
synthesis and synthesis-related HLDA tools, and modeling products, both areas in
which Synopsys is currently the leading provider. As the Company's business
evolves, it expects to continue to face competition in the core product areas of
synthesis and modeling and to face competition both in new product areas and
from competing alternatives for its customers' EDA dollars (e.g., internal
spending, services, out-sourcing of design or other tools). Although the Company
has maintained its leadership in synthesis and modeling, a loss of market share
or price/margin reduction resulting from increased competition could have a
significant adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations.
 

 
     More generally, the EDA industry as a whole is experiencing rapid change.
Technology advances and industry requirements are fueling a change in the nature
of competition among EDA vendors. Advances in semiconductor technology are
expected to create a need for tighter integration between logic design and
physical design, and companies will increasingly compete over "design flows"
involving a broad range of products and services rather than individual design
tools.
 
     No single EDA company currently offers its customers industry leading
products for a complete design flow. The Company offers a wide range of logic
design tools but currently offers a limited range of physical design tools, a
field which is currently dominated by Cadence and Avant!. In addition, the
Company has less capacity than Cadence to offer design services.
 
     In order to increase the breadth of its product offerings, the Company has
entered into a number of strategic relationships. In February 1996, the Company
entered into a six-year joint development and license agreement with IBM
pursuant to which the Company and IBM will jointly develop, among other
products, a design planning product. In May 1996, the Company entered into a
strategic relationship with Cooper & Chyan Technology, Inc. ("CCT") involving a
link between Synopsys' existing synthesis products and the design planning
product under development and CCT's routing technology. CCT merged with Cadence
in May 1997. Cadence has informed the Company that it does not intend to comply
with certain of CCT's obligations under the Company's agreements with CCT. The
Company and Cadence are currently discussing the basis on which the two
companies might continue to cooperate on linking the Company's synthesis/design
planning tools with Cadence's routing technology.
 
     To meet competition, Synopsys will continue to enhance its product line and
promote the adoption of new products and methodologies. However, there can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current
and future competitors or that competitive pressure faced by the Company will
not materially adversely affect its business, operating results and financial
condition.
 
PRODUCT SALES AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS
 
     The Company offers its system products for sale or lease. The Company
typically licenses its software to customers under non-exclusive license
agreements that transfer title to the media only and that restrict use of the
software to internal purposes at specified sites. The Company currently licenses
the majority of its software as a network license that allows a number of
individual users to access the software on a defined network. Software is
available under both a perpetual license or a time-based license. License fees
are dependent on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each
product required. On certain software products the Company will collect royalty
payments in addition to license fees.
 
PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
 
     The Company primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent,
trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to
establish and protect proprietary rights in its products. The source code for
the Company's products is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished
copyrighted work. However, it may be possible for third parties to develop
similar technology independently, provided they have not violated any
contractual agreements or intellectual property laws. In addition, effective
copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain
foreign countries. Because the EDA industry is characterized by rapid
technological change, the Company believes that factors such as the
technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments,
frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product
maintenance, coupled with the various forms of legal protection that are
available for its technology, provide an effective means for the Company to
establish and maintain a technology leadership position. The Company currently
holds several U.S. and foreign patents on some of the technologies included in
its products and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future.
 
     Although the Company believes that its products, trademarks and other
proprietary rights do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties,
and although to date the Company has received no communications from third
parties alleging the infringement of the proprietary rights of such parties,
there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against
the Company in the future or that any such claims will not require the Company
to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly and time-consuming
litigation.
 

 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of September 30, 1997, the Company had a total of 1,961 employees, of
whom 1,527 were based in the United States and 434 were based internationally.
Of the total, 950 were engaged in marketing, sales and related customer support
services, 607 were in research and development, 118 were in operations and 286
were in administration and finance. The Company's future financial results
depend, in part, upon the continued service of its key technical and senior
management personnel and its continuing ability to attract and retain highly
qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is
intense and there can be no assurance that the Company can retain its key
managerial and technical employees or that it can attract, assimilate or retain
other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. None of
the Company's employees is represented by a labor union. The Company has not
experienced any work stoppages and considers its relations with its employees to
be good.
 
PENDING MERGER
 
     On October 14, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to merge with
Viewlogic Systems, Inc. ("Viewlogic"). Viewlogic is a leading supplier of EDA
software which is used to accelerate and automate the design and verification of
advanced ASICs, PCBs and electronic systems. Under the agreement, the Company
will issue 0.6521 shares of its Common Stock for each share of Viewlogic common
stock outstanding on the effective date of the merger and assume outstanding
options to purchase Viewlogic common stock, which will thereafter be exercisable
for shares of the Company's Common Stock based on the same exchange ratio. The
merger is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and is expected
to close on December 4, 1997, subject to approval by the stockholders of both
companies and to other customary conditions. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Exhibit 13.1 hereto.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's principal administrative, sales, marketing, research and
development facilities are located in five adjacent buildings in Mountain View,
California, which together provide approximately 415,000 square feet of
available space and two adjacent buildings approximately 1/2 mile away in
Sunnyvale, California, which together provide 200,000 square feet of space. The
Mountain View buildings are leased through February 2003 and the Sunnyvale
buildings are leased through April 2007.
 
     Through its merger with EPIC, the Company acquired approximately 53,000
square feet of office space in Sunnyvale. The EPIC Technology Group is expected
to relocate to other Company facilities in Fall 1997 and the space, leased
through December 2000, may be sublet to unaffiliated tenants at market rates or
used to accommodate growth or relocations.
 
     The Company leases approximately 67,000 square feet in Beaverton, Oregon
for administrative, marketing, research and development and support activities.
This facility is leased through March 2002.
 
     The Company currently leases eighteen other domestic sales offices
throughout the United States. Synopsys currently leases international sales
and/or service offices in Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the People's Republic of China, Singapore, Sweden,
Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. The Company also leases a research and
development facility in India.
 
     The Company believes that its existing facilities are adequate for its
current needs and that additional space will be available as needed on
commercially acceptable terms.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     There are no material legal proceedings pending against the Company.
 

 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matters were submitted for a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Report.
 
  Executive Officers of the Company
 
     The executive officers of the Company and their ages, as of September 30,
1997, are as follows:
 

 
     Harvey C. Jones, Jr. joined Synopsys in December 1987 and has served as
Chairman of the Board since December 1992. He served as Chief Executive Officer
from December 1987 until January 1994. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Jones
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Daisy Systems Corporation, a
company he co-founded in 1981. From 1974 to 1981, Mr. Jones was employed by
Calma Company where his last position was Vice President, Business Development.
Mr. Jones holds a B.S. in mathematics and computer sciences from Georgetown
University and an M.S. in management from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. Mr. Jones is a Director of Remedy Corporation, a developer of
client-server software.
 
     Dr. Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and currently serves as President
and Chief Executive Officer. From the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, he
has held a variety of positions ranging from Senior Vice President of
Engineering to Senior Vice President of Marketing. From 1986 to 1992, Dr. de
Geus served as Chairman of the Board. He has served as President since 1992 and
has held the additional title of Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He
has served as a Director since 1986. From 1982 to 1986, Dr. de Geus was employed
by General Electric Corporation, where he was the Manager of the Advanced
Computer-Aided Engineering Group. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss
Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in
electrical engineering from Southern Methodist University.
 
     Dr. Chi-Foon Chan joined Synopsys as the Vice President of Application
Engineering and Services in May 1990. Since September 1996 he has served as
Executive Vice President, Office of the President and since April 1997 he has
served as Chief Operating Officer. From February 1994 until April 1997 he served
as Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group and from October 1996 until April
1997 as Acting Senior Vice President, Design Reuse Group. Prior to February
1994, Dr. Chan served as Vice President, Engineering and General Manager,
DesignWare Operations. From March 1987 to May 1990, Dr. Chan was employed by NEC
 

 
Electronics, where his last position was General Manager, Microprocessor
Division. Dr. Chan holds an M.S. and a Ph.D. in computer engineering from Case
Western Reserve University.
 
     Dr. William W. Lattin is an Executive Vice President of Synopsys and has
been a Director of the Company since July 1995. Dr. Lattin joined Synopsys in
February 1994 in connection with Synopsys' merger with Logic Modeling
Corporation ("LMC"). He has served as Executive Vice President since July 1995.
From October 1994 to July 1995 he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate
Marketing, and from February 1994 until October 1994 as Senior Vice President,
Logic Modeling Group. From December 1992 to February 1994, Dr. Lattin served as
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of LMC, and from May 1992 to
December 1992 he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
LMC. From 1986 to 1992, Dr. Lattin served as Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Logic Automation Inc., a predecessor of
LMC. Dr. Lattin holds a B.S.E.E. and an M.S.E.E. from the University of
California at Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Arizona State
University. Dr. Lattin is a Director of RadiSys Corporation, a supplier of
embedded computers, as well as a Trustee of the Oregon Graduate Institute.
 
     David C. Bullis joined Synopsys in February 1994 in conjunction with the
merger of Synopsys and LMC, and currently serves as Senior Vice President. Prior
to 1994, Mr. Bullis served as Vice President, SmartModel Division of LMC. From
May 1993 to February 1994, Mr. Bullis served as Vice President and General
Manager, SmartModel Division and from May 1992 to May 1993, he served as Vice
President, Sales. From 1991 to May 1992, he served as Vice President, Sales for
Logic Automation, Inc. From 1984 to 1991, he was employed by Summation, Inc., a
manufacturer of systems for board testing, most recently as Chief Executive
Officer. Mr. Bullis holds a B.S.E.E. from Iowa State University and an M.S.E.E.
from Colorado State University.
 
     Dr. Raul Camposano joined Synopsys in January 1993 and currently serves as
Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Design Tools Group. From May
1996 until January 1997 he served as Vice President, Engineering, Design Tools
Group. From January 1996 until May 1996 he served as General Manager and Senior
Director, Design Planning Group, and from January 1994 until January 1996 as
Director of Engineering, Design Environment Group. Prior to joining Synopsys,
Dr. Camposano concurrently served as the Design Technology Director for the
German National Research Center for Computer Science and as Professor of
Computer Science at the University of Paderborn, Germany. Between 1986 and 1991,
Dr. Camposano led the project on high-level synthesis at the IBM T.J. Watson
Research Center. Dr. Camposano holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Chile,
and a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Karlsruhe.
 
     Dr. Kurt Keutzer joined Synopsys in January 1991 and currently serves as
Chief Technical Officer and Senior Vice President of Research. From September
1994 until March 1997 he served as Chief Scientist, and from September 1996
until March 1997 as Vice President, Research. From January 1991 until September
1994 he served as Director, Research and Development. Prior to joining Synopsys,
Dr. Keutzer held various positions at AT&T Bell Laboratories. Dr. Keutzer serves
on the Technical Advisory Board of C-Cube Microsystems. In 1996, he was named a
Fellow of the IEEE. Dr. Keutzer received his B.S. degree in mathematics from
Maharishi International University, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer
science from Indiana University.
 
     Gary A. Larsen has served as Senior Vice President and Co-General Manager,
EPIC Technology Group since July 1997. From August 1994 to February 1997, Mr.
Larsen served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales of EPIC and from February 1997,
when Synopsys and EPIC merged, to July 1997 as Vice President, Sales, of the
EPIC Technology Group. From 1984 to April 1994, he served in a variety of
managerial positions at Cadence, most recently as Vice President of the ASIC
Solutions Group. Mr. Larsen holds a B.A. in economics from Stanford University.
 

 
     Paul Lippe joined Synopsys in October 1992 and currently serves as Senior
Vice President, Business and Market Development (since May 1997) and as
Corporate Secretary (since 1992). From November 1996 until May 1997 he served as
Senior Vice President, Business Development and Legal, and from January 1995
until November 1996 as Vice President, Business Development and Legal. Prior to
1992, Mr. Lippe was employed by Solbourne Computer as Vice President, Corporate
Development, General Counsel and Secretary, and also served as Chairman of the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission. Mr. Lippe holds a B.A. from Yale
College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
 
     Robert Russo joined Synopsys in April 1993 and since June 1997 has served
as Senior Vice President, Sales and Services for the Americas and Europe. From
April 1993 until June 1997 Mr. Russo served as Vice President, North America
Sales. Prior to joining Synopsys Mr. Russo held senior-level management
positions in sales and marketing with Cray Research, Stardent Computers and
Votan. Mr. Russo holds degrees in mechanical and aeronautical engineering from
New York Institute of Technology.
 
     Faysal Sohail serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Design
Architects Group. From June 1996 to January 1997 he served as Vice President and
General Manager of the Design Reuse Group. Mr. Sohail is one of the founders of
Silicon Architects, acquired by Synopsys in 1995. Prior to the acquisition, he
was Director of Marketing for Silicon Architects. Prior to founding Silicon
Architects, Mr. Sohail held various managerial positions in development and
marketing at Actel from 1986 to 1990 and LSI Logic from 1985 to 1986. Mr. Sohail
holds a B.S. in computer engineering from the University of Illinois.
 
     David Sugishita joined Synopsys in June 1997 and currently serves as Senior
Vice President, Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer. From 1995 to
1997 he served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief
Financial Officer for Actel, and from 1994 to 1995 Mr. Sugishita was Senior Vice
President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
for Micro Component Technology. From 1991 to 1994, he was Vice President and
Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for Applied Materials. From
1982 to 1991 he served as Vice President of Finance, Semiconductor Group for
National Semiconductor. He holds a B.S. in finance from San Jose State
University and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University. Mr. Sugishita currently
serves as a Director for Micro Component Technology.
 
     Dr. Sang Wang joined Synopsys in connection with Synopsys' merger with EPIC
and currently serves as Senior Vice President and Co-General Manager, EPIC
Technology Group. Dr. Wang, a co-founder of EPIC, served as Chief Executive
Officer of EPIC from 1991 to February 1997, as President from 1986 to 1991 and
as Chairman of the Board from 1986 to 1997 when the merger took place. He
concurrently served as Chief Financial Officer from 1986 to 1993. Prior to
founding EPIC, Dr. Wang was a manager of computer-aided design at Advanced Micro
Devices. Dr. Wang holds a B.S.E.E. from National Taiwan University, an M.S. in
physics from Ohio State University, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from
Stanford University.
 
     There are no family relationships among any executive officers of the
Company.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     The information required by this item is set forth on page 23 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information required by this item is set forth on page 22 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The information required by this item is set forth on pages 24 through 31
of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The consolidated financial statements required by this item are included on
pages 34 through 50 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and are
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated in Items 5, 6 and 7, the Company's
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The report of the Company's Independent Auditors on
the Company's consolidated financial statements is included on pages 32 and 33
of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference. The report of the Company's Independent Auditors on the financial
statement schedule required by this item is included in Exhibit 23.1 hereto.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information with respect to Directors is included under the caption
"Proposal One -- Election of Directors" in the Company's Notice of Annual
Meeting and Proxy Statement for the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on February 27, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information with respect to Executive Officers is included under the heading
"Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I hereof after Item 4.
 
     Information regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is included under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" under the caption "Additional Information" in the Company's Notice
of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for the Company's annual
meeting of stockholders to be held on February 27, 1998 and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this item is included under the heading
"Executive Compensation" under the caption "Proposal One -- Election of
Directors" in the Company's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement for the
Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on February 27, 1998 and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this item is included under the heading
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" under the
caption "Proposal One -- Election of Directors" in the Company's Notice of
Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement for the Company's annual meeting of
stockholders to be held on February 27, 1998 and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this item is included under the caption
"Proposal One -- Election of Directors" in the Company's Notice of Annual
Meeting and Proxy Statement for the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on February 27, 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT:
 
     1. Financial Statements
 
     The following documents are included in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to
     Stockholders and incorporated by reference in Item 8:
 

 
     2. Financial Statement Schedule
 
     The following schedule of the Company is included herein:
 
          Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves (Schedule II)
 
     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
     amounts are immaterial or the required information is presented in the
     consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
     The following document is included in Exhibit 23.1 hereto:
 
          Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule of
     Synopsys, Inc.
 
     3. Exhibits
 
             See Item 14(c) below. The following compensatory plans are required
        to be filed as exhibits. Certain of such plans have been incorporated by
        reference from prior filings, as indicated under Item 14(c):
 

 
(b)REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
   Not applicable.
 

 
(c) EXHIBITS
 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45138) which
     became effective February 24, 1992
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1992
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1993
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1995
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31,
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1996
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-8, filed on May 3, 1996
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-4 (File No. 333-21129) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's Registration
     Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-19807) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with
     the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 1997.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the form of prospectus contained in
     the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-39713) of Synopsys,
     Inc. as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7,
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          SYNOPSYS, INC.
 
                                          By /s/ AART J. DE GEUS
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Aart J. de Geus
                                            President, Chief Executive Officer,
                                             and Director (Principal Executive
                                             Officer)
 
                                          By /s/ DAVID SUGISHITA
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            David Sugishita
                                            Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                             Operations, and Chief Financial
                                             Officer (Principal Financial and
                                             Accounting Officer)
Date: December 3, 1997
 

 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Aart J. de Geus and David Sugishita, and
each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments (including
post-effective amendments) to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith,
as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 

 

 
                                  SCHEDULE II
 
                                 SYNOPSYS, INC.
 
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes $688, $1,576 and $830 charged to income in fiscal 1995, 1996 and
    1997, respectively.
 
(2) Translation and other adjustments.
 
(3) Accounts written off, net of recoveries.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 

 
- ---------------
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45138) which
     became effective February 24, 1992
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1992
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1993
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1995
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31,
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
     Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1996
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-8, filed on May 3, 1996
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-4 (File No. 333-21129) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's Registration
     Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-19807) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with
     the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 1997.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the form of prospectus contained in
     the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-39713) of Synopsys,
     Inc. as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7,

