Item 1.    Business

Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG") is a leading provider of retirement savings, investment and insurance products and
services with $318.8 billion in assets under management ("AUM") and approximately 19.1 million customers worldwide as of December 31, 2010.

Our
U.S. and international operations concentrate primarily on asset accumulation and asset management. In addition, we offer a broad range of individual and group life insurance,
individual and group disability insurance and group dental and vision insurance. On September 30, 2010, we announced our decision to exit the group medical insurance business and entered into
an agreement with United Healthcare Services, Inc. to renew group medical insurance coverage for our customers as the business transitions.

We
primarily focus on small and medium-sized businesses, which we define as companies with less than 1,000 employees, providing a broad array of retirement and employee benefit solutions
to meet the needs of the business, the business owner and their employees. We are the leading provider of corporate defined contribution plans in the U.S., according to Spectrem Group. We are also the
leading employee stock ownership plan consultant. In addition, we are a leading provider of nonqualified plans, defined benefit plans and plan termination annuities. We are also one of the largest
providers of specialty benefits insurance product solutions.

We
believe small and medium-sized businesses are an underserved market, offering attractive growth opportunities in the U.S. in retirement services and other employee benefits. We also
believe there is a significant opportunity to leverage our U.S. retirement expertise into select international markets that have adopted or are moving toward private sector defined contribution
pension systems. This opportunity is particularly compelling as aging populations around the world are driving increased demand for retirement accumulation, retirement asset management and retirement
income management solutions.

Our Reportable Segments

We organize our businesses into the following reportable segments:

•Retirement and Investor Services;•Principal Global Investors;•Principal International and•U.S. Insurance Solutions.

We
also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment.

See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information" for financial results of our segments,
including our operating revenues for our products and services described in each of the subsequent segment discussions.

Retirement and Investor Services Segment

Our asset accumulation activities in the U.S. date back to the 1940s when we first began providing pension plan products and services.
We now offer a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services for retirement savings and investment:

•To businesses of all sizes with a concentration on small and medium-sized businesses, we offer products and services for
defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") consulting
services. For more basic investment needs, we offer SIMPLE Individual Retirement Accounts ("IRA") and payroll deduction plans;•To large institutional clients, we also offer investment-only products, including guaranteed investment
contracts ("GICs") and funding agreements and•To employees of businesses and other individuals, we offer the ability to accumulate funds for retirement and savings
through mutual funds, individual annuities and bank products.

We
organize our Retirement and Investor Services operations into six product and service categories: full service accumulation, Principal Funds (our mutual fund business), individual
annuities, bank and trust services, investment only and full service payout.









Full Service Accumulation

Products

We offer a wide variety of investment and administrative products for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b)
plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and ESOPs. A 403(b) plan is a plan described in Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that provides retirement
benefits for employees of tax-exempt organizations and public schools.

Full
service accumulation products respond to the needs of plan sponsors seeking both administrative and investment services for defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The
investment component of both the defined contribution and defined benefit plans may be in the form of a general account, separate account, a mutual fund offering or a collective investment trust. In
addition, defined contribution plans may also offer their own employer security as an investment option.

As
of December 31, 2010, we provided full service accumulation products to over 30,000 defined contribution pension plans, of which approximately 24,500 were 401(k) plans,
covering 3.1 million plan participants, and to over 2,500 defined benefit pension plans, covering over 319,000 plan participants. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 58% of our full
service accumulation account values were managed by our affiliated asset manager, Principal Global Investors. Third-party asset managers provide asset management services with respect to the remaining
assets.

We
deliver both administrative and investment services to our defined contribution plan and defined benefit plan customers through annuities and mutual funds. Annuities and the
underlying investment options are not required to be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our mutual fund offering is called Principal Advantage. It is a
qualified plan product based on our series mutual fund, Principal Funds, Inc. We offer investments covering the full range of stable value, equity, fixed income, real estate and international
investment options managed by our Principal Global Investors segment as well as third-party asset managers.

Markets and Distribution

We offer our full service accumulation products and services to employer-sponsored pension plans, including qualified and nonqualified
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Our primary target market is plans sponsored by small and medium-sized businesses, which we believe remains under-penetrated. According to
Spectrem Group, in 2009, only 20% of businesses with between 10 and 49 employees, 46% of businesses with between 50 and 99 employees, 54% of businesses with between 100 and 249 employees and 61% of
businesses with between 250 and 500 employees offered a 401(k) plan. The same study indicates that 73% of employers with between 500 and 1,000 employees, 84% of employers with between 1,000 and 5,000
employees and 95% of employers with 5,000 or more employees offered a 401(k) plan in 2009.

We
distribute our full service accumulation products and services nationally, primarily through a captive retirement services sales force. As of December 31, 2010, over 110
retirement services sales representatives in over 42 offices, operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 11,000 independent brokers, consultants and agents.
Retirement services sales representatives are an integral part of the sales process alongside the referring consultant or independent broker. We compensate retirement services sales representatives
through a blend of salary and production-based incentives, while we pay independent brokers, consultants and agents a commission or fee.

As
of December 31, 2010, we had a separate staff of over 270 service and education specialists located in the sales offices who play a key role in the ongoing servicing of pension
plans by providing local services to our customers, such as reviewing plan performance, investment options and plan design; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees
understand the benefits of their pension plans. The following summarizes our distribution channels:

•We distribute our annuity-based products through sales representatives, agents and brokers who are primarily state
licensed individuals.•Principal Advantage, our mutual fund-based product, is targeted at defined contribution plans through
broker-dealer distribution channels. Principal Advantage gives us access to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-registered distributors who are not traditional sellers of annuity-based products
and broadens opportunities for us in the investment advisor and broker-dealer distribution channels.•Principal Retirement Income Edge® is designed to create a coordinated experience from accumulation to income
management for advisors to use with their individual clients and plan participants who are nearing or enjoying retirement. The Principal Retirement Income Edge® program provides education
and planning tools as well as a wide variety of products such as annuities, mutual funds and bank products to provide personalized income management solutions.•Through our Retire Secure strategy we provide financial education and assistance to individual investors who are
participants/members of employer-based accumulation solutions to help them achieve financial security.









We
believe that our approach to full service accumulation plan services distribution gives us a local sales and service presence that differentiates us from many of our competitors. We
have also established a number of marketing and distribution relationships to increase the sales of our accumulation products.

Principal Funds

We have been providing mutual funds to customers since 1969. We offer mutual funds to individuals, businesses and institutional
investors for use within variable life and variable annuity contracts, for use in employer-sponsored pension plans, as a rollover investment option, and for general investment purposes.

Products and Services

Principal Funds plans to grow into a top advisor sold mutual fund company with a sales force focused on multiple channels. As of
November 2010, as reported by the Strategic Insight, we are ranked 23 according to AUM (long term funds) of the top 50 intermediary sold mutual funds. We provide accounting, compliance, corporate
governance and product development for all mutual funds we organize. As of December 31, 2010, our mutual fund operations served approximately 1.5 million mutual fund shareholder
accounts.

Principal Funds, Inc.Principal Funds, Inc. ("PFI") is a series mutual fund that, as of December 31, 2010, offered
63 investment
options. This fund's five R class shares act as the funding vehicle for Principal Advantage, the defined contribution product described above under "Retirement and Investor Services
Segment-Full Service Accumulation Products." This fund also offers three retail classes of shares to individuals. One of the three retail share classes is for IRA rollovers (J shares) and
two are for general investment purposes (A and C shares). Two additional classes of shares are available: (1) I shares, which are offered primarily to specified institutional investors, and
(2) P shares, which are used primarily in adviser fee-based programs. As of December 31, 2010, the retail classes of shares had $25.0 billion of AUM. All other share
classes of Principal Funds, Inc., including seed money, had $35.7 billion of AUM. We report the results for this fund, excluding the retail AUM, under "Full Service Accumulation." We
report the results of the retail AUM under "Principal Funds."

Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc.Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. is a series mutual fund that, as of
December 31, 2010, provided 35 investment options for variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts issued by Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") and other insurance
companies not affiliated with Principal Life. As of December 31, 2010, this fund had $5.5 billion of AUM. AUM backing Principal Life variable annuity contracts is reported in this
segment under "Individual Annuities." AUM backing Principal Life variable life insurance contracts is reported in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment.

Principal Managed Portfolio.Principal Managed Portfolio is an advisory product offered by our registered investment advisor,
Princor Financial
Services Corporation ("Princor"), which permits the client to invest only in Principal Funds, Inc. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on this product. As of December 31,
2010, Principal Managed Portfolio had accumulated $604.8 million in assets.

Principal Advisory Select and Principal Dynamic Portfolios.These are advisory products offered by our registered investment
advisor, Princor, which
permits the client to invest in a broad array of investments. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on these products. As of December 31, 2010, these products had accumulated
$1.4 billion in assets.

Markets and Distribution

Our markets for PFI's retail share classes are individuals seeking to accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes, as well as
nonqualified individual savings plans utilizing payroll deductions. We
also market PFI's retail share classes to participants in pension plans who are departing their plans and reinvesting their retirement assets into individual retirement accounts.

We
sell PFI's retail share classes primarily through registered representatives from other broker-dealers; affiliated financial representatives; independent brokers registered with our
securities broker-dealer, Princor; direct deposits from our employees and others and Principal Connection. As of December 31, 2010, 56 retail sales representatives across the United States,
operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 34,700 independent brokers, consultants and agents. Principal Connection is our direct response distribution channel
for retail financial services products to individuals. Principal Connection's services are available over the phone, on the Internet or by mail. Princor recruits, trains and supervises registered
representatives selling our products through Principal Connection.

Individual Annuities

Individual annuities offer a tax-deferred means of accumulating retirement savings, as well as a tax-efficient
source of income during the payout period.









Products

We offer both fixed and variable annuities to individuals and pension plans. Individual annuities may be categorized in two ways:
(1) deferred, in which case assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the customer dies or the customer begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option, or
(2) immediate/payout, in which case payments begin within one year of issue and continue for a fixed period of time or for life.

Fixed Deferred Annuities.Our individual fixed deferred annuities consist of both single premium deferred annuity contracts and
flexible premium
deferred annuity contracts ("FPDAs"). Some FPDA contracts limit the period of time deposits are allowed (e.g., only one year). For most contracts, the principal amount is guaranteed. We credit
the customer's account with a fixed interest rate and for a specified time period, typically one, three or five years. Thereafter, we reset, typically annually, the interest rate credited to the
contract based upon our discretion, taking into account market and other conditions. We also offer a fixed deferred annuity where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, subject
to maximum and minimum values. Our major source of income from fixed deferred annuities is the spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest
rate credited to the contracts. We bear the investment risk because, while we credit customers' accounts with a stated interest rate, we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general
account assets will exceed that rate. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts.

Variable Deferred Annuities.

Fixed Immediate Annuities.Our individual fixed immediate annuities consist almost exclusively of single premium immediate
annuity contracts
("SPIAs"). SPIAs are products where the customer makes a single deposit and from which periodic benefit payments are made. Payments may be contingent upon the survival of one or two individuals or
payments may be fixed, meaning payments are contractually guaranteed and do not depend on the continuing survival of any individual. Our major source of income from fixed immediate annuities is the
spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate implied in the calculation of annuity benefit payments. We bear the investment risk because
we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general account assets will exceed the rate implied in the SPIA contracts. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets
supporting these contracts.

Markets and Distribution

Our target markets for individual annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and
individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market both fixed and variable annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified
retirement savings.

We
sell our individual annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 43%, 34% and 20% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. Affiliated
financial representatives continued to be the primary distribution channel of our variable deferred annuities. The majority of overall annuity sales, however, were from non-affiliated
distribution channels, as a result of focused efforts to increase fixed annuity sales through non-affiliated distribution channels.

Bank and Trust Services

Bank and Trust Services includes Principal Bank and Principal Trust Company. Principal Bank is a federal savings bank that began its
activities in February 1998. As of December 31, 2010, Principal Bank had over 254,000 customers and approximately $2.4 billion in assets. Delaware Charter Guarantee & Trust
Company, dba Principal Trust Company, is a Delaware state chartered non-deposit trust company that was chartered in 1899. It is one of the largest non-deposit trust companies
in the U.S.. As of December 31, 2010, we served as trustee to over 400,000 accounts, which held assets of











approximately
$91.0 billion. Principal Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.

Products

Our current products and services include a suite of consumer checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of
deposit ("CDs"), individual retirement accounts, small account rollovers from qualified retirement plans and health savings accounts ("HSAs"). In addition, we offer deposit and loan services to small
and medium-sized businesses. Principal Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged for CDs of similar amounts from
participating banks. The deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity and are used to fund securities purchases and loan originations.

Principal
Trust Company specializes in providing trust solutions for a full array of employee benefit plans and accounts including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans,
nonqualified executive benefit plans, ESOPs, and self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts, such as IRAs. Principal Trust Company also maintains a series of collective
investment funds, The Principal TrustSMTarget Date Funds, and provides personal trust services.

Markets and Distribution

We offer our bank products and services to prospects and existing customers, through Principal Connection, our affiliated financial
representatives and other PFG affiliates with a primary focus on deepening existing relationships with customers of PFG. We also pursue asset retention strategies with customers who seek to transfer
assets from our other asset accumulation products by offering them our banking products and services. Principal Bank services customers through the telephone, mail or Internet.

We
deliver our directed trust services to customers through our PFG affiliates. Administrative trust services for self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts
are sold through non-affiliated brokerage firms, clearing firms, financial advisors and asset managers.

Investment Only

Products

The three primary products for which we provide investment only services are: GICs; funding agreements and other investment only
products.

GICs
and funding agreements pay a specified rate of return. The rate of return can be a floating rate based on an external market index or a fixed rate. Our investment only products
contain provisions disallowing or limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements.

Deposits
to investment only products are predominantly in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new deposits can fluctuate from one fiscal quarter to another. Assets
invested in GICs and funding agreements generate a spread between the investment income earned by us and the amount credited to the customer. Our other investment only products consist of separate
accounts invested in either equities or fixed income instruments. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting investment only account values.

Markets and Distribution

We market GICs and funding agreements primarily to pension plan sponsors and other institutions. We also offer them as part of our full
service accumulation products. We sell our GICs primarily to plan sponsors for funding of tax-qualified retirement plans. We sell our funding agreements directly to institutions that may
or may not be pension funds and unconsolidated special purpose vehicles domiciled either in the U.S. or offshore for funding agreement-backed note programs. The funding agreements sold as part of
these funding agreement-backed note programs work by having investors purchase debt obligations from the special purpose vehicle which, in turn, purchases the funding agreement from us with terms
similar to those of the debt obligations. The strength of this market is dependent on debt capital market conditions. As a result, our sales through this channel can vary widely from one quarter to
another. In addition to the special purpose vehicle selling the funding agreement-backed notes to U.S. and foreign institutional investors, the special purpose vehicle may also sell notes to U.S.
retail investors through a SEC-registered shelf debt issuance program. Due to a downturn in the credit market, we had no medium term note issuances in 2009 and 2010. As economic conditions
change, we will reassess the use of our medium term note and GIC programs.









Full Service Payout

Products

Full service payout products respond to the needs of pension plan participants who, upon retirement or termination of their employment,
seek a guaranteed income stream. Plan participants who seek these services include those from pension plans we service, as well as pension plans other providers service. We primarily offer single
premium group annuities, which are immediate or deferred annuities that provide a current or future specific income amount, fully guaranteed by us. These are available to defined contribution and
defined benefit plan participants. We make regular payments to individuals, invest the underlying assets on their behalf and provide tax reporting to them. We also reinsure single premium immediate
annuities issued by another insurer.

Single
premium group annuities are traditionally used in conjunction with defined benefit plans, particularly those where the plan is being terminated. In such instances, the plan
sponsor transfers all its obligations under the plan to an insurer by paying a single premium. Increasingly, these products are purchased by defined contribution plan participants who reach retirement
age. Generally, plan sponsors restrict their purchases to insurance companies with superior or excellent financial quality ratings because the Department of Labor has mandated that annuities be
purchased only from the "safest available" insurers.

Premium
received from full service payout products are generally in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new premiums can fluctuate depending on the number of
retirements and large-scale annuity sales in a particular fiscal quarter. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting full service payout account values.

Markets and Distribution

Our primary distribution channel for full service payout products is comprised of several specialized home office sales consultants
working through consultants and brokers that specialize in this type of business. Our sales consultants also make sales directly to institutions. Our nationally dispersed retirement services sales
representatives act as a secondary distribution channel for these products. Principal Connection also distributes full service payout products to participants in plans we service who are terminating
employment or retiring.

Principal Global Investors Segment

Our Principal Global Investors segment consists of Principal Global Investors and its affiliates. We focus on providing a diverse range
of asset management services covering a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and portfolio structures to our other segments and third-party institutional clients.

As
of December 31, 2010, Principal Global Investors, together with its affiliates, Principal Real Estate Investors; Spectrum Asset Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC;
Columbus Circle Investors; Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services managed $220.1 billion in assets. We have offices outside of the U.S. in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore
and the United Kingdom.

During
the third quarter of 2008, we made a decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation. This termination does not qualify for discontinued operations
treatment under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). Therefore, the results of the terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation are still included in our
consolidated income from continuing operations.

Products and Services

Principal Global Investors provides focused investment advisory services across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and
portfolio structures. These services are provided for a fee as defined by the client mandate. We are diversified across three primary asset classes.

Equity Investments.As of December 31, 2010, Principal Global Investors, along with Columbus Circle Investors and Edge
Asset Management
managed $70.0 billion in global equity assets. Our equity capabilities encompass large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks in developed and emerging markets
worldwide. As of December 31, 2010, 43% of equity AUM was derived from our pension products, 24% from other products of PFG and the remaining 33% from third-party institutional clients.

Fixed Income Investments.Principal Global Investors, along with Spectrum Asset Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Edge
Asset Management
and Morley Financial Services managed $113.6 billion in global fixed income assets as of December 31, 2010. Collectively, we provide our clients with access to investment-grade corporate
debt; government bonds; mortgage-backed, asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed securities; high yield and municipal bonds; private and syndicated debt instruments and preferred securities. As of
December 31, 2010, 32% of these assets were derived from our pension products, 31% from other products of PFG, and the remaining 37% from third-party institutional clients.

Real Estate Investments.Principal Global Investors, through its affiliate Principal Real Estate Investors, managed a portfolio
of primarily U.S.
commercial real estate assets of $34.7 billion as of December 31, 2010. Principal Real Estate Investors provides our clients with a broad range of real estate investment options,
including private real estate equity,











commercial
mortgages, credit tenant debt, construction-permanent financing, bridge/mezzanine loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities and real estate investment trusts. As of December 31,
2010, 31% of the commercial real estate portfolio was derived from our pension products, 30% from other products of PFG and the remaining 39% from third-party institutional clients.

Markets and Distribution

We employed 110 institutional sales, relationship management and client service professionals as of December 31, 2010, who
worked with consultants and directly with large investors to acquire and retain third-party institutional clients. As of December 31, 2010, Principal Global Investors and its affiliates had
approximately 497 third-party institutional clients with $78.7 billion of AUM in 21 countries.

Principal International Segment

Our Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR"), India,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and Thailand. We focus on countries with large middle classes, favorable demographics, and growing long-term savings, ideally with defined
contribution retirement markets. We entered these countries through acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures.

The
activities of our Principal International segment reflect our efforts to accelerate the growth of our AUM by capitalizing on the international trend toward private sector defined
contribution pension systems and individual long-term savings. Through the Principal International segment, we offer retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds,
institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products.

Products, Markets and Distribution

Brazil.

Chile.We offer long-term savings products, retirement annuities, mutual funds, life insurance accumulation products, mortgage
loans and
institutional asset management services.

Retirement
annuities are offered to individuals exiting the pre-retirement accumulation system. Annuity products are distributed through a network of brokers and independent
agents numbering approximately 670 as of December 31, 2010.

We
serve the individual and group voluntary/complementary long-term savings market by offering "APV plans" (qualified individual retirement solutions) and "APVC plans"
(qualified group retirement solutions that are similar to the U.S. 401(k) product line). According to the Asociacion de Adminstradoras de Fondos Mutuous de Chile, we ranked first in AUM for mutual
fund companies offering these plans in Chile as of December 31, 2010. The plans, together with non qualified mutual fund products, are distributed to retail clients through our proprietary
sales force, financial advisors, brokerage houses, alliances with financial institutions and the largest retailer in Chile, Falabella.

Life
insurance accumulation products are also offered to individuals through brokers and financial advisors. We originate, sell and service individual residential mortgage loans in Chile
through our independent distribution network, which is composed primarily of real estate brokers and developers. We also offer institutional asset management services to pension funds, insurance
companies, mutual fund companies and investment platforms through our proprietary sales force.

China.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to individuals and institutions through a minority-held joint venture
that
includes China Construction Bank ("CCB"), the majority partner. We sell mutual funds primarily through our partner bank, CCB. The bank provides extensive distribution capabilities for the joint
venture in terms of brand awareness and the number of branch outlets, which number approximately 13,630.

Hong Kong SAR.We sell defined contribution pension, mutual fund and institutional asset management products.









We
actively compete in the defined contribution pension plan market. The government currently requires both employers and employees to each contribute 5% of an employee's income to a
Mandatory Provident Fund ("MPF"). We target small and medium-sized employers and distribute products through strategic alliances with insurance companies, brokers, consultants, banks and direct
marketing through our own sales representatives. Our alliance partners distribute our MPF products and services or use our administrative and investment services in their own products.

We
sell mutual funds to retail customers primarily through strategic alliances with banks. To grow institutional asset management, our operations in Hong Kong SAR leverage Principal
Global Investors' regional asset management and sales resources to jointly secure mandates.

India.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to both retail and corporate customers.

In
the mutual funds market, we compete by managing and administering funds for both individuals and corporations through a majority-owned joint venture. The minority partners are Punjab
National Bank and Vijaya Bank, two large Indian commercial banks with a combined network of approximately 6,180 branches as of December 31, 2010. Mutual funds are sold through regional offices
and other bank branches located throughout India. In addition to the current
mutual fund business, we are positioning ourselves to compete in the emerging pension and long-term savings market in India.

Malaysia.We offer conventional and Islamic mutual funds through our minority-held joint venture with CIMB Group, the majority
partner.
CIMB Group is a large Malaysian bank holding company with a presence in many Southeast Asian countries. The company has a sales force of approximately 4,650 agents selling to retail customers. We also
market mutual funds through wholesale bank channels. The joint venture's main bank channels include approximately 1,100 bank branches throughout Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore. According
to Lipper, our joint venture company combined with CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset Management (a joint venture between Principal Global Investors and CIMB Group) ranked second in total unit
trust assets managed and second in Islamic unit trust assets managed in the Malaysian asset management industry as of November 30, 2010. The companies also manage a significant amount of
institutional asset mandates.

The
joint venture also has operations in Singapore (CIMB-Principal Asset Management (S) Pte Ltd), Indonesia (PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management),
and in June 2010 acquired an asset management company in Thailand, BT Asset Management, and has since changed the name to CIMB-Principal Asset Management Company Limited.

Mexico.We offer defined contribution pension products, mutual funds, annuities and asset management services to institutional
clients.

Through
our Afore pension company we manage and administer approximately 2.8 million individual retirement accounts under the mandatory privatized social security system for all
non-government employees in Mexico. We distribute products and services through a proprietary sales force of approximately 915 sales representatives as of December 31, 2010, as well
as independent brokers who sell directly to individuals.

Our
mutual fund company distributes products and services through a sales force of approximately 42 employees and through distribution agreements with other financial entities. We
administer previously sold annuities and life products. Due to unfavorable market conditions, sales of our annuity and life products in Mexico were suspended in 2007.

Mexico
has also initiated institutional asset management services, offering both domestic and international products.

U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment

Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment offers individual life insurance and specialty benefits, which include group dental, group vision,
group life, group disability, wellness and individual disability insurance. We focus on providing comprehensive insurance solutions for small and medium-sized businesses.

Individual Life Insurance

We began as an individual life insurer in 1879. Our U.S. operations administer approximately 550,000 individual life insurance policies
with over $134.7 billion of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2010.

Small
and medium-sized companies are challenged with how to build quality benefits packages for executives, how to transition the company's ownership to a partner or family member and
how to save for retirement. In addition, executives and other key employees often have personal insurance needs. These needs are the focus of our products within the individual life insurance arena.

Products and Services

We offer a variety of individual life insurance products, including universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance and
term life insurance. We target the personal insurance needs of owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses with an increasing focus on providing insurance solutions for nonqualified
executive benefits. In addition, we market our products to meet traditional retail insurance needs.









Universal and Variable Universal Life Insurance.Universal and variable universal life insurance products offer the policyholder
the option of
adjusting both the premium and the death benefit amounts of the insurance contract. Universal life insurance typically includes a cash value account that accumulates at a credited interest rate based
on the investment returns of the block of business. Variable universal life insurance is credited with the investment returns of the various investment options selected. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, 80% of individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales were generated from universal and variable universal life insurance products. Universal and variable
universal life insurance represents 63% of individual life insurance premium and deposits for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 48% of individual life insurance in force as of
December 31, 2010. Variable universal life insurance products represented 32% of our universal and variable universal life insurance deposits for the year ended December 31, 2010.

After
a deduction for policy level expenses, we credit net deposits to an account maintained for the policyholder. For universal life contracts, the entire account balance is invested in
the general account. Interest is credited to the policyholder's account based on the earnings on general account investments. For variable universal life contracts, the policyholder may allocate the
account balance among our general account and a variety of separate account choices. Interest is credited on amounts allocated to the Principal Life general account in the same manner as for universal
life. Net investment performance on separate account investments is allocated directly to the policyholder accounts; the policyholder bears the investment risk. Some of our universal life and variable
universal life insurance contracts contain what are commonly referred to as "secondary" or "no-lapse" guarantee provisions. A no-lapse guarantee keeps the contract in force,
even if the contractholder's account balance is insufficient to cover all of the contract charges, provided that the contractholder has continually paid a specified minimum premium.

Traditional Life Insurance.Traditional life insurance includes participating whole life, adjustable life products and
non-participating
term life insurance products. Participating products and non-participating term life insurance products represented 6% and 14%, respectively, of our individual life insurance annualized
first year premium sales for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 19% and 33%, respectively, of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2010. Adjustable life insurance
products provide a guaranteed benefit in return for the payment of a fixed premium and allow the policyholder to set the coverage period, premium and face amount combination. Term insurance products
provide a guaranteed death benefit for a specified period of time in return for the payment of a fixed premium. Policyholder dividends are not paid on term insurance.

Specialty Benefits Insurance

Specialty benefits insurance, which includes group dental, vision, life and disability insurance and individual disability insurance is
an important component of the employee benefit offering at small and medium-sized businesses. We offer traditional employer sponsored and voluntary products for group dental, vision, life and
disability. We also offer group dental, vision, and disability on a fee-for-service basis. We began selling our first specialty benefit products in 1941 with group disability
and group life insurance. We began selling individual disability insurance in 1952 and group dental and group vision insurance in the late 1960s. Effective January 1, 2011, Principal Wellness
Company, a provider of wellness services since 2004, transitioned to the Specialty Benefits Insurance division. Also effective January 1, 2011, our fee-for-service group
dental, vision, and disability business transitioned to this division.

Products and Services

Group Dental and Vision Insurance.Group dental and vision insurance plans provide partial reimbursement for dental and vision
expenses. As of
December 31, 2010, we had nearly 33,000 group dental and vision insurance policies in force covering over 868,000 employee lives. According to LIMRA, we were the 8th largest group dental
insurer in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force in 2009. In addition to indemnity and preferred provider organization dental offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis, we
offer a prepaid dental plan in Arizona through our Employers Dental Services, Inc. subsidiary.

Group Life Insurance.Group life insurance provides coverage to employees and their dependents for a specified period. As of
December 31,
2010, we had nearly 45,000 group policies providing nearly $105.8 billion of group life insurance in force to approximately 1.8 million employee lives. According to LIMRA in 2009, we
were ranked 3rd in the U.S. in terms of the number of group life insurance contracts in force. We currently sell traditional group life insurance that does not provide for accumulation of cash
values on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Our group life insurance business remains focused on the traditional, annually renewable term product. Group term life and group universal life
accounted for 96% and 4%, respectively, of our total group life insurance in force as of December 31, 2010. We no longer market group universal life insurance to new employer groups.

Group Disability Insurance.Group disability insurance provides a benefit to insured employees who become disabled. In most
instances, this benefit
is in the form of a monthly income. Our group disability products include both short-term and long-term disability, offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis.
Long-term disability represents 64% of total group disability premium, while short-term disability represents 36% of total group disability premium. In addition, we provide
disability management services, also called rehabilitation services, to assist individuals in returning to work as quickly as possible following disability. We also work with disability claimants to
improve the approval rate of Social Security benefits, thereby reducing payment of benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received. As of











December 31,
2010, we served approximately 1.2 million employee lives under nearly 30,000 contracts, with our group short-term disability business being ranked 4th and
our group long-term disability business being ranked 7th in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009, in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force, according to LIMRA.

Individual Disability Insurance.Individual disability insurance products provide a benefit to the insured member in the event
he/she becomes
disabled. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. In addition to income replacement, we offer products to pay business-related costs such as overhead expenses for a
disabled business owner, buy-out costs for business owners purchasing a disabled owner's interest in the business, expenditures for replacement of a key person and business loan payments.
As of December 31, 2010, we served approximately 131,000 individual disability policyholders, with our individual disability business being ranked 7th in the U.S. as of
December 31, 2009, in terms of premium in force, according to LIMRA.

Principal Wellness Company.We recognize the importance of promoting healthy behavior. Principal Wellness Company contributes
expertise in providing
wellness screenings, counseling and services to employers and their employees, designed to improve health, reduce health insurance claim costs, reduce absenteeism and increase employee productivity.

Fee-for-Service.We offer administration of group dental, disability and vision benefits on a
fee-for-service basis.

U.S. Insurance Solutions Markets and Distribution

For each of our products, administration and distribution channels are customized to meet customer needs and expectations for that
product.

We
sell our individual life and individual disability income products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, primarily targeting owners and executives of small and medium-sized
businesses. Small and medium-sized business sales represented 79% of individual life sales and 64% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2010, based on first year
annualized premium. Our life insurance sales offer an enhanced focus to the Business Owner & Executive Solutions market. This strategy offers competencies to address business owner financial
challenges such as exiting the business, business transition, retaining key employees and retirement planning. Key employees also
have needs to supplement retirement income, survivor income, and business protection. We believe the Business Owner & Executive Solutions segment offers growth opportunities and we will
continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market.

We
distribute our individual life and individual disability insurance products through our affiliated financial representatives and independent brokers, as well as other marketing and
distribution alliances. Affiliated financial representatives were responsible for 35% of individual life insurance sales based on first year annualized premium and 15% of individual disability sales
for the year ended December 31, 2010. We had 965 affiliated financial representatives in 28 offices. Although they are independent contractors, we have a close tie with affiliated financial
representatives and we offer them benefits, training and access to tools and expertise. To meet the needs of the various marketing channels, particularly the independent brokers, we employ wholesale
distributors — Regional Vice Presidents for individual life and Disability Income Regional Vice Presidents for individual disability. A key differentiator in the nonqualified
executive benefit sale is our Regional Vice Presidents-Nonqualified Plans, who are not only wholesalers but also consultants and subject-matter experts providing point-of-sale
support in closing cases.

We
market our group life, disability, dental and vision insurance products to small and medium-sized businesses, primarily targeting our sales toward owners and human resources
professionals. We sell our group life, disability and dental products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. We sell vision coverage in 48 states, plus the District of Columbia. We continually
adapt our products and pricing to meet local market conditions. We market our fee-for-service capabilities to employers that self-insure their employees' dental,
disability and vision benefits. We market our wellness and fee-for-service businesses in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

The
group insurance market continues to see a shift to voluntary/worksite products. In keeping with this market change, which shifts the funding of such products from the employer to the
employee, we have enhanced our focus on our voluntary benefits platform. We believe the voluntary/worksite market presents growth opportunities, and we will continue to develop strategies to
capitalize on this expanding market.

As
of December 31, 2010, we had 96 sales representatives and 102 service representatives in 35 offices. Our sales representatives accounted for 94% of our group insurance sales
for the year ended December 31, 2010. The group sales force plays a key role in the ongoing servicing of the case by providing local, responsive services to our customers and their brokers,
such as renewing contracts, revising plans and solving any administrative issues; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their plans.

Corporate Segment

Our Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of
the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment
eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of











such
items. Results of our exited group medical insurance business are reported in this segment. For further details, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Transactions Affecting Comparability."

Competition

Competition in our segments is based on a number of factors including: scale, service, product features, price, investment performance,
commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds,
broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, greater diversity of distribution sources, better brand recognition
or, with respect to insurers, higher financial strength ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete or may have better investment performance at various times.

•full service platform;•strong customer relationships;•focus on financial performance and•performance-oriented culture.

Ratings

Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Financial
strength ratings are generally defined as opinions as to an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Information about ratings provides both industry
participants and insurance consumers meaningful insights on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims.

Principal
Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company ("PNLIC") have been assigned the following insurer financial strength ratings:

Rating AgencyFinancial Strength RatingRating StructureA.M. Best Company, Inc.A+ ("Superior") with a stable outlookSecond highest of 16 rating levelsFitch Ratings Ltd.AA- ("Very Strong") with a negative outlookFourth highest of 21 rating levelsMoody's Investors ServiceAa3 ("Excellent") with a stable outlookFourth highest of 21 rating levelsStandard & Poor'sA ("Strong") with a positive outlookSixth highest of 21 rating levels











indicate
they believe the economic recovery will be slow moving, hampering earnings recovery, and creating the potential for further credit losses, particularly in the commercial and residential
mortgage asset classes. However, all agencies also indicate there are positive signs for the U.S. life insurance sector.

We
believe that our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, since ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally
used throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not
evaluations directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. For more
information on ratings, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings."

Regulation

Our businesses are subject to regulation and supervision by U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities as well as
non-U.S. regulatory authorities for our operations outside the U.S., which can have a significant effect on our business. Our businesses are also affected by U.S. federal, state and local
tax laws as well as tax laws for jurisdictions outside the U.S.

PFG,
our parent holding company, is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it is the holding company for all of
our operations, it is subject to regulation of our regulated entities, including as an insurance holding company and savings and loan holding company. We are subject to legal and regulatory
requirements applicable to public companies, including public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance.

U.S. Insurance Regulation

We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. Principal Life and
PNLIC are domiciled in Iowa and their principal insurance regulatory authority is the Insurance Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa. Our other U.S. insurance companies are
principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to
register with the insurance department in the insurance company's state of domicile and to furnish financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company
system. Transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and at arm's length. Most states have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect
change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company and laws requiring prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance
company doing business in that state.

Annually,
our U.S. insurance companies must submit an opinion from a board-appointed qualified actuary to state insurance regulators, where licensed, on whether the statutory assets held
backing statutory reserves are sufficient to meet contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be rendered noting the sufficiency of assets, then the
insurance company must set up additional statutory reserves drawing from available statutory surplus until such an opinion can be given.

State
insurance departments have broad administrative powers over the insurance business, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent licensing, establishment of reserve
requirements and solvency standards, premium rate regulation, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, policy form approval, unfair trade and claims practices regulation and other matters. State
insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies. See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further detail.

In
order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established risk-based capital standards. The
standards require life insurers to submit a
report to state regulators on an annual basis regarding their risk-based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. As of
December 31, 2010, the statutory surplus of each of our U.S. life insurance companies exceeded the minimum level of risk-based capital requirements required before state insurance
departments would take action against an insurer.

State
and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or
investigations regarding our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws.

Each
state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover contractual benefit
obligations of insolvent insurance companies. The guaranty associations levy assessments on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by
such insurer in the lines of business in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit the member insurers to recover the assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
offsets.









Securities Regulation

Insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and some funding agreements that constitute
securities and mutual fund products are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority and other regulatory authorities. These regulations affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.

We
also have entities which are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act

As we provide products and services for U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act ("ERISA"). ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure requirements and standards of conduct.

Banking Regulation

We are a savings and loan holding company for Principal Bank, a federal savings bank, which is regulated by the Office of Thrift
Supervision. Principal Bank is also a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and subject to its regulations.

Environmental Regulation

As we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and could be subject to
environmental liabilities and costs associated with required remediation of our properties. We routinely have environmental assessments performed for real estate being acquired or used as collateral
for commercial mortgages we use for investment.

Regulation of International Businesses

Our international businesses are supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

Risk Management

Like all financial services companies, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in
Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Effective enterprise risk management is, therefore, a key component of our business model. Enterprise risk management helps us to:

•identify and manage those risks that present profitable growth opportunities, and avoid those that do not and•balance the sometimes competing demands of our various stakeholders, meet our customer obligations, satisfy regulatory
requirements and optimize shareholder returns relative to the risks we take.

We
use a variety of methods to help us identify, monitor, measure, communicate and manage our risks within established limits and risk tolerances.

Our
Board of Directors and senior management are knowledgeable of and accountable for key risks. Our Board meets at least quarterly and regularly hears reports from the Chief Executive
Officer, the business unit Presidents, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Investment Officer. The Board has several committees, which include the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the
Human Resources Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee that meet at least quarterly and address various aspects of risks. In addition, the Board of Directors and senior management
receive quarterly updates from the Chief Risk Officer.

We
also have several senior management groups and committees that meet on a regular and frequent basis to discuss various issues and risks associated with our businesses. These
committees encompass numerous functions such as discussing and setting business unit and company strategy, reviewing and approving potential uses of corporate capital and setting investment policy and
reviewing its implementation. Many key members of senior management serve on multiple committees, allowing them to provide oversight and take a holistic view of our key risks.

Our
enterprise risk management program is executed via a federated model. The Chief Risk Officer and the corporate risk units are independent of the business units, and work closely with
the business units, providing oversight and integration of all risk management activities. Each business unit has its own risk committee and is responsible for identifying, monitoring, measuring and
managing its risks, as well as monitoring how its risks impact the enterprise's overall risk exposure. The business units provide risk reports to the Chief Risk Officer quarterly with current risk
management information.

We
have established risk tolerances from an overall corporate perspective as well as for specific types of risks. All potentially significant actions are considered in terms of the
possible impact on our risk profile, including the capital required, the impact on near term and long-term earnings and the ability to meet our targets with respect to return on











equity,
liquidity, debt/capital, cash coverage and other ratios and metrics. We monitor a variety of risk metrics on an ongoing basis and make any necessary adjustments to help us stay within our
established risk tolerances. We have developed a Business Continuity Management Program that identifies critical business functions and includes plans for their protection and recovery in the event of
a disaster or other business interruption. We continually monitor emerging risks, and we regularly build upon our already strong risk management practices to incorporate updated modeling tools,
processes and metrics, which we actively use to better understand and manage our business. We monitor three key risk metrics as part of our enterprise risk management
framework:

•Earnings at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in operating earnings and net income relative to baseline
operating earnings and net income under relatively adverse business and economic conditions.•Embedded Value at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in embedded value relative to baseline embedded
value under relatively adverse business and economic conditions.•Economic Total Asset Requirement, which is the total assets required to ensure that we can meet all of our obligations
with a high degree of confidence. Economic Total Asset Requirement is the sum of Economic Reserves and Economic Capital.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 13,627 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Internet Website

Our Internet website can be found at www.principal.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website, access to
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available free of
charge on our Internet website is our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and charters for the audit, finance, human resources and nominating and governance committees
of our Board of Directors. Also see Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance."

