Item 1.    Business

Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG") is a global investment management leader offering retirement services, insurance
solutions and asset management. We offer businesses, individuals and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services, including retirement, asset management and insurance through
our diverse family of financial services companies. We have $483.2 billion in assets under management ("AUM") and approximately 19.4 million customers worldwide as of December 31,
2013.

We
primarily focus on small and medium-sized businesses, which we define as companies with less than 1,000 employees, providing a broad array of retirement and employee benefit solutions
to meet the needs of the business, the business owner and their employees. We are the leading provider of corporate defined contribution plans in the U.S., according to Spectrem Group. We are also the
leading employee stock ownership plan consultant. In addition, we are a leading provider of nonqualified plans, defined benefit plans and plan termination annuities. We are also one of the largest
providers of specialty benefits insurance product solutions.

We
believe small and medium-sized businesses are an underserved market, offering attractive growth opportunities in the U.S. in retirement services and other employee benefits. We also
believe there is a significant opportunity to leverage our U.S. retirement expertise into select international markets that have adopted or are moving toward private sector defined contribution
pension systems. This opportunity is particularly compelling as aging populations around the world are driving increased demand for retirement accumulation, retirement asset management and retirement
income management solutions.

Our Reportable Segments

We organize our businesses into the following reportable segments:

•Retirement and Investor Services;•Principal Global Investors;•Principal International and•U.S. Insurance Solutions.

We
also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment.

See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information" for financial results of our segments,
including our operating revenues for our products and services described in each of the subsequent segment discussions.

Retirement and Investor Services Segment

Our asset accumulation activities in the U.S. date back to the 1940s when we first began providing pension plan products and services.
We now offer a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services for retirement savings and investment:

•To businesses of all sizes with a concentration on small and medium-sized businesses, we offer products and services for
defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") consulting
services. For more basic investment needs, we offer SIMPLE Individual Retirement Accounts ("IRA") and payroll deduction plans;•To large institutional clients, we also offer investment-only products, including guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs")
and funding agreements and•To employees of businesses and other individuals, we offer the ability to accumulate savings for retirement and other
purposes through mutual funds, individual annuities and bank products.

We
organize our Retirement and Investor Services ("RIS") operations into two business groupings:

•Accumulation business — which includes full service accumulation, Principal Funds (our mutual fund
business), individual annuities and bank and trust services; and•Guaranteed business — which includes investment only and full service payout.

Accumulation Business

Full Service Accumulation

Products

We offer a wide variety of investment and administrative products for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b)
plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and ESOPs. A 403(b) plan is









a
plan described in Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that provides retirement benefits for employees of tax-exempt organizations and public schools.

Full
service accumulation products respond to the needs of plan sponsors seeking both administrative and investment services for defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The
investment component of both the defined contribution and defined benefit plans may be in the form of a general account, separate account, a mutual fund offering or a collective investment trust. In
addition, defined contribution plans may also offer their own employer security as an investment option.

We
deliver both administrative and investment services to our defined contribution plan and defined benefit plan customers through annuities and mutual funds. Group annuities and the
underlying investment options are not required to be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our mutual fund offering is called Principal Advantage. It is a
qualified plan product based on our series mutual fund, Principal Funds, Inc. ("PFI"). We offer investments covering the full range of stable value, equity, fixed income, real estate and
international investment options managed by our Principal Global Investors segment as well as third-party asset managers.

As
of December 31, 2013, we provided full service accumulation products to (a) over 32,600 defined contribution pension plans, of which approximately 27,400 were 401(k)
plans, including $113.8 billion in assets and covering 3.8 million eligible plan participants, and (b) to over 2,300 defined benefit pension plans, including $17.2 billion
in assets and covering over 338,000 eligible plan participants. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 58% of our full service accumulation account values were managed by our Principal Global
Investors segment. Third-party asset managers provide asset management services with respect to the remaining assets.

Markets and Distribution

We offer our full service accumulation products and services to employer-sponsored pension plans, including qualified and nonqualified
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Our primary target market is plans sponsored by small and medium-sized businesses, which we believe remains under-penetrated. According to
Spectrem Group, in 2012, only 22% of businesses with between 10 and 49 employees, 52% of businesses with between 50 and 99 employees, 54% of businesses with between 100 and 249 employees and 72% of
businesses with between 250 and 500 employees offered a 401(k) plan. The same study indicates that 75% of employers with between 500 and 1,000 employees, 82% of employers with between 1,000 and 5,000
employees and 83% of employers with 5,000 or more employees offered a 401(k) plan in 2012.

We
distribute our full service accumulation products and services nationally, primarily through a captive retirement services sales force. As of December 31, 2013, 117 retirement
services sales representatives in 42 offices, operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 13,500 independent brokers, consultants and agents. Retirement services
sales representatives are an integral part of the sales process alongside the referring consultant or independent broker. We compensate retirement services sales representatives through a blend of
salary and production-based incentives, while we pay independent brokers, consultants and agents a commission or fee.

As
of December 31, 2013, we had a separate staff of over 280 service and education specialists located in the sales offices who play a key role in the ongoing servicing of pension
plans by providing local services to our customers, such as reviewing plan performance, investment options and plan design; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees
understand the benefits of their pension plans. The following summarizes our distribution channels:

•We distribute our annuity-based products through sales representatives, agents and brokers who are primarily state
licensed individuals.•Principal Advantage, our mutual fund-based product, is targeted at defined contribution plans through broker-dealer
distribution channels. Principal Advantage gives us access to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-registered distributors who are not traditional sellers of annuity-based products and broadens
opportunities for us in the investment advisor and broker-dealer distribution channels.•Principal Retirement Income Edge® is designed to create a coordinated experience from accumulation to income
management for advisors to use with their individual clients and plan participants who are nearing or enjoying retirement. The Principal Retirement Income Edge® program provides education
and planning tools as well as a wide variety of products such as annuities, mutual funds and bank products to provide personalized income management solutions.•Through our Retire Secure strategy we provide financial education and assistance to individual investors who are
participants/members of employer-based accumulation solutions to help them achieve financial security.

We
believe our approach to full service accumulation plan services distribution gives us a local sales and service presence that differentiates us from many of our competitors. We have
also established a number of marketing and distribution relationships to increase the sales of our accumulation products.









Principal Funds

We have been providing mutual funds to customers since 1969. We offer mutual funds to individuals, businesses and institutional
investors for use within variable life and variable annuity contracts, for use in employer-sponsored pension plans, as a rollover investment option, and for general investment purposes.

Products and Services

Principal Funds plans to grow into a top advisor sold mutual fund company with a sales force focused on multiple channels. As of
December 2013, as reported by the Strategic Insight, we are ranked 17thaccording to AUM (long term funds) of the top 50 intermediary sold mutual funds. We provide accounting,
compliance, corporate governance and product development for all mutual funds we organize.

Principal Funds, Inc.PFI is a series mutual fund that, as of December 31, 2013, offered 65 investment options. This
fund's five R
share classes act as the funding vehicles for Principal Advantage, the defined contribution product described above under "Retirement and Investor Services Segment-Full Service Accumulation-Products."
This fund also offers three classes of shares to individuals. One of these three share classes is for IRA rollovers (J shares) and two are for general investment purposes (A and C shares). PFI offers
two additional classes of shares: (1) I shares, which are offered primarily to specified institutional investors, and (2) P shares, which are used primarily in adviser fee-based
programs. As of December 31, 2013, the fund held $101.5 billion of AUM. We report the results for this fund in "Full Service Accumulation" or "Principal Funds" based on the distribution
channel associated with the AUM.

Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc.Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. is a series mutual fund that, as of
December 31, 2013, provided 39 investment options for variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts issued by Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") and other insurance
companies not affiliated with Principal Life. As of December 31, 2013, this fund had AUM of $7.4 billion. AUM backing Principal Life variable annuity contracts is reported in this
segment under "Individual Annuities." AUM backing Principal Life variable life insurance contracts is reported in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment.

Principal Managed Portfolio.Principal Managed Portfolio is an advisory product offered by one of our registered investment
advisers, Princor
Financial Services Corporation ("Princor"), which permits the client to invest primarily in mutual funds of Principal Funds, Inc. The other investments offered through the program are municipal
bond funds comprising the fixed income component in the tax-sensitive non-qualified Model Portfolios and a limited number of mutual funds and Exchange Traded Funds ("ETFs") representing alternative
asset classes and investment strategies. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on this product. As of December 31, 2013, Principal Managed Portfolio had accumulated
$852.4 million in assets.

Principal Advisory Select and Principal Dynamic Portfolios.These are advisory products offered by one of our registered
investment advisors,
Princor, which permits the client to invest in a broad array of investments. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on these products. As of December 31, 2013, these products had
accumulated $2.6 billion in assets.

Markets and Distribution

Our markets for PFI's retail share classes are individuals seeking to accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes, as well as
nonqualified individual savings plans utilizing payroll deductions. We also market PFI's retail share classes to participants in pension plans who are departing their plans and reinvesting their
retirement assets into individual retirement accounts.

We
sell PFI's share classes primarily through registered representatives from other broker-dealers; affiliated financial representatives; independent brokers registered with our
securities broker-dealer, Princor; direct deposits from our employees and others and Principal Connection. As of December 31, 2013, 62 retail sales representatives across the United States,
operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 50,000 independent brokers, consultants and agents. Principal Connection is our direct response distribution channel
for retail financial services products to individuals. Principal Connection's services are available over the phone, on the Internet or by mail. Princor recruits, trains and supervises registered
representatives selling our products through Principal Connection.

Individual Annuities

Individual annuities offer a tax-deferred means of accumulating retirement savings, as well as a tax-efficient source of income during
the payout period.

Products

We offer both fixed and variable annuities to individuals and pension plans. Individual annuities may be categorized in two ways:
(1) deferred, in which case assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the customer dies or the customer begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option, or
(2) payout, in which case payments are made for a fixed period of time or for life.









Fixed Deferred Annuities.Our individual fixed deferred annuities consist of both single premium deferred annuity contracts and
flexible premium
deferred annuity contracts ("FPDAs"). Some FPDA contracts limit the period of time deposits are allowed (e.g., only one year). For most contracts, the principal amount is guaranteed. We credit
the customer's account with a fixed interest rate for a specified number of years. Thereafter, we reset, typically annually, the interest rate credited to the contract based upon our discretion,
subject to contractual minimums, by taking into account market and other conditions. We also offer a fixed deferred annuity where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, subject
to maximum and minimum values. Our major source of income from fixed deferred annuities is the spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest
rate credited to the contracts. We bear the investment risk because, while we credit customers' accounts with a stated interest rate, we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general
account assets will exceed that rate. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts.

Variable Deferred Annuities.

December 31, 2013December 31, 2012(in millions)Equity funds$469.6$482.5Bond funds256.9266.1Balanced funds4,077.22,782.7Money market funds8.07.3​​​​​​​​Total$4,811.7$3,538.6​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Percent of total variable annuity account values59%55%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Fixed Income Annuities.Our individual fixed income annuities consist of single premium immediate annuity contracts ("SPIAs")
and deferred income
annuity contracts ("DIAs"). SPIAs and DIAs are products where the customer pays a premium in return for periodic benefit payments. SPIA payments begin immediately and DIA payments begin after a
deferral period, during which a return-of-premium death benefit is included. Payments may be contingent upon the survival of one or two individuals or payments may be fixed, meaning payments are
contractually guaranteed and do not depend on the continuing survival of any individual. Our major source of income from fixed immediate annuities is the spread between the investment income earned on
the underlying general account assets and the interest rate implied in the calculation of annuity benefit payments. We bear the investment risk because we cannot be certain the investment income we
earn on our general account assets will exceed the rate implied in the SPIA and DIA contracts. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts.

Markets and Distribution

Our target markets for individual annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and
individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market both fixed and variable annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified
retirement savings.

We
sell our individual annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 47%, 46% and 50% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31,
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. Affiliated
financial representatives continued to be the primary distribution channel of our variable deferred annuities. The majority of overall annuity sales, however, were from non-affiliated distribution
channels, as a result of focused efforts to increase fixed annuity sales through non-affiliated distribution channels.

Bank and Trust Services

Bank and trust services includes Principal Bank and Principal Trust Company. Principal Bank is a federal savings bank that began its
activities in February 1998. As of December 31, 2013, Principal Bank had over 262,000 customers and









approximately
$2.1 billion in assets. Principal Bank operates under a limited purpose charter and may only accept deposits held in a fiduciary capacity, and may not hold demand deposits or make
commercial loans. Delaware Charter Guarantee & Trust Company, dba Principal Trust Company, is a Delaware state-chartered non-deposit trust company that was chartered in 1899. It is one of the
largest non-deposit trust companies in the U.S. As of December 31, 2013, we served as trustee or custodian to over 240,000 accounts, which held assets of approximately $150.0 billion.
Principal Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. The majority of the trust assets are affiliated and reported in "Full Service Accumulation" AUM.

Products

Our current bank products and services include IRAs that are primarily funded by moneys rolled over from qualified retirement plans.
The IRAs hold savings accounts, money market accounts and certificates of deposit. The deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity for Principal Bank and are used to
fund purchases of investment securities and residential mortgage loans. Principal Bank does not originate any loans.

Principal
Trust Company specializes in providing trust solutions for a full array of employee benefit plans and accounts including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans,
nonqualified executive benefit plans, ESOPs, and self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts, such as IRAs. Principal Trust Company also maintains collective investment funds and provides personal
trust services.

Markets and Distribution

Bank employees pursue asset retention strategies by offering our bank products and services to participants of qualified retirement
plans, with a primary focus on helping customers understand their retirement options and accumulate savings for retirement. Principal Bank services customers through the telephone, mail and Internet.

We
deliver our directed trust services and collective investment funds to customers through our PFG affiliates and affiliated financial representatives. Administrative trust services for
self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts are sold through non-affiliated brokerage firms, clearing firms, financial advisors and asset managers.

Guaranteed Business

Investment Only

Products

The three primary products for which we provide investment only services are: GICs, funding agreements and other investment only
products.

GICs
and funding agreements pay a specified rate of return. The rate of return can be a floating rate based on an external market index or a fixed rate. Our investment only products
contain provisions disallowing or limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements.

Deposits
to investment only products are predominantly in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new deposits can fluctuate from one fiscal quarter to another. Assets
invested in GICs and funding agreements generate a spread between the investment income earned by us and the amount credited to the customer. Our other investment only products consist of separate
accounts invested in either equities or fixed income instruments. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting investment only account values.

Markets and Distribution

We market GICs and funding agreements primarily to pension plan sponsors and other institutions. We also offer them as part of our full
service accumulation products. We sell our GICs primarily to plan sponsors for funding of tax-qualified retirement plans. We sell our funding agreements directly to institutions that may or may not be
pension funds and unconsolidated special purpose vehicles domiciled either in the U.S. or offshore for funding agreement-backed note programs. The funding agreements sold as part of these funding
agreement-backed note programs work by having investors purchase debt obligations from the special purpose vehicle which, in turn, purchases the funding agreement from us with terms similar to those
of the debt obligations. The strength of this market is dependent on debt capital market conditions. As a result, our sales through this channel can vary widely from one quarter to another. In
addition to the special purpose vehicle selling the funding
agreement-backed notes to U.S. and foreign institutional investors, the special purpose vehicle may also sell notes to U.S. retail investors through a SEC-registered shelf debt issuance program.

Full Service Payout

Products

Full service payout products respond to the needs of pension plan participants who, upon retirement or termination of their employment,
seek a guaranteed income stream. Plan participants who seek these services include those from pension plans we service, as well as pension plans other providers service. We primarily offer single
premium group annuities, which are immediate or deferred annuities that provide a current or future specific income amount, fully guaranteed by us. These are available to defined contribution and
defined benefit plan participants. We make regular









payments
to individuals, invest the underlying assets on their behalf and provide tax reporting to them. We also reinsure single premium immediate annuities issued by another insurer.

Single
premium group annuities are traditionally used in conjunction with defined benefit plans, particularly those where the plan is being terminated. In such instances, the plan
sponsor transfers all its obligations under the plan to an insurer by paying a single premium. Increasingly, these products are purchased by defined contribution plan participants who reach retirement
age. Generally, plan sponsors restrict their purchases to insurance companies with superior or excellent financial quality ratings because the Department of Labor has mandated that annuities be
purchased only from the "safest available" insurers.

Premium
received from full service payout products are generally in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new premiums can fluctuate depending on the number of
retirements and large-scale annuity sales in a particular fiscal quarter. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting full service payout account values.

Markets and Distribution

Our primary distribution channel for full service payout products is comprised of several specialized home office sales consultants
working through consultants and brokers that specialize in this type of business. Our sales consultants also make sales directly to institutions. Our nationally dispersed retirement services
sales representatives act as a secondary distribution channel for these products. Principal Connection also distributes full service payout products to participants in plans we service who are
terminating employment or retiring.

Principal Global Investors Segment

Our Principal Global Investors segment manages assets for sophisticated investors around the world, using a multi-boutique strategy
that enables the segment to provide an expanded range of diverse investment capabilities including equity, fixed income, real estate, and other alternative investments. We also have experience in
asset allocation, stable value management and other structured investment strategies. We focus on providing services to our other segments and third-party institutional clients. We maintain offices in
Australia, Brazil, Dubai, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We
deliver our products and services through our network of specialized investment groups and boutiques including Principal Global Investors — Equities; Principal
Global Investors — Fixed Income; Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC; Principal Enterprise Capital, LLC; Spectrum Asset Management Inc.; Post Advisory
Group, LLC; Columbus Circle Investors; Edge Asset Management Inc.; Morley Financial Services Inc.; Macro Currency Group; Finisterre Capital LLP; Origin Asset
Management LLP; CIMB Principal Islamic Asset Management Sdn Bhd; Multi-Asset Advisors Group and Liongate Capital Management LLP. As of December 31, 2013, Principal Global
Investors and its boutiques managed $292.1 billion in assets.

Products and Services

Our products and services are provided for a fee as defined by client mandates. Our fees are generally driven by AUM. We are
diversified across the following primary asset classes.

Equity Investments.As of December 31, 2013, Principal Global Investors — Equities along with Columbus Circle
Investors,
Edge Asset Management Inc. and Origin Asset Management LLP managed $103.1 billion in global equity assets. Our equity capabilities encompass large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap
stocks in developed and emerging markets worldwide. As of December 31, 2013, 45% of equity AUM was derived from our pension products, 30% from other products of PFG and the remaining 25% from
third-party institutional clients.

Fixed Income Investments.As of December 31, 2013, Principal Global Investors — Fixed Income along with Spectrum
Asset
Management Inc.; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Edge Asset Management Inc.; and Morley Financial Services Inc. managed $126.4 billion in global fixed income assets.
Collectively, our experience in fixed income management spans multiple economic and credit market cycles, and encompasses all major fixed income sectors and security types. Our research and risk
management capabilities in worldwide debt markets provide a strong foundation for broadly diversified "multi-sector" portfolios, tailored to specific client objectives. As of December 31, 2013,
31% of these assets were derived from our pension products, 32% from other products of PFG, and the remaining 37% from third-party institutional clients.

Real Estate Investments.Principal Global Investors, through its affiliates Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC and
Principal Enterprise
Capital, LLC, managed a portfolio of primarily U.S. commercial real estate assets of $48.8 billion as of December 31, 2013. Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC provides
our clients with a broad range of real estate investment options including private real estate equity, commercial mortgages, bridge/mezzanine loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities and real
estate investment trust securities. As of December 31, 2013, 25% of the commercial real estate portfolio was derived from our pension products, 27% from other products of PFG and the remaining
48% from third-party institutional clients.

Other Alternative Investments.We offer products and services through other alternative asset classes including managing
currency mandates through
our Macro Currency Group boutique and hedge fund mandates through the Liongate Capital Management LLP, Finisterre Capital LLP, and Columbus Circle Investors boutiques. As of









December 31,
2013, we managed $13.8 billion with 2% from other products of PFG and the remaining 98% of these assets derived from third-party institutional clients.

Multi-Asset
Advisors Group was established to provide advice on multi-asset strategies to global clients and to develop and manage customized multi-asset products to address specific
client needs. Multi-Asset Advisors Group helps Principal Global Investors optimize our broad range of capabilities while enhancing our position as a thought leader and trusted advisor to large
institutional clients.

Markets and Distribution

We employed 144 institutional sales, relationship management and client service professionals as of December 31, 2013, who
worked with consultants and directly with large investors to acquire and retain third-party institutional clients. As of December 31, 2013, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques had
approximately 797 third-party institutional clients with $109.4 billion of AUM in 37 countries.

Principal International Segment

Our Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR"), India,
Mexico and Southeast Asia. We focus on countries with growing middle classes, favorable demographics, and increasing long-term savings, ideally with defined contribution retirement markets. We entered
these locations through acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures.

The
activities of our Principal International segment reflect our efforts to accelerate the growth of our AUM by capitalizing on the international trend toward private sector defined
contribution pension systems and individual long-term savings. We offer retirement products and services, mutual funds, institutional asset management, annuities and life insurance accumulation
products.

Products, Markets and Distribution

Brazil.We offer pension, retirement income and asset accumulation products through a co-managed joint venture, Brasilprev
Seguros e Previdencia
("Brasilprev"). We own 25% of the economic interest and 50.01% of the voting shares, and the partner is Banco do Brasil ("Banco"), the largest bank in Latin America which had approximately 5,300
Brazilian branches as of September 30, 2013. According to Federação Nacional de Previdência e Vida, our joint venture ranked third in the Brazilian
private pension market based upon managed assets as of November 30, 2013 and first in 2013 net sales.

Brasilprev
has the exclusive distribution rights of its pension, retirement and long-term asset allocation products through the Banco network until October 2032. Our joint venture
provides products for the retirement needs of individuals and employers. Banco's employees sell these products directly to individual clients through its bank branches. In addition, our joint venture
reaches corporate clients through two wholesale distribution channels: (1) a network of independent brokers who sell to the public and (2) Banco's corporate account executives who sell
to existing and prospective corporate clients.

We
offer mutual fund and asset management services through Claritas Administração de Recursos Ltda ("Claritas"), a leading independent Brazilian
mutual fund and asset management company. We own 62.7% of the economic interest and the remainder is owned by employee-partners. The company manages equity funds, balanced funds, managed accounts and
other strategies for affluent clients and institutions and sells through its multi-channel distribution network.

Chile.We offer a complete array of pension accumulation and retirement payout products including mandatory employee-funded
pension plans, individual
voluntary plans ("APV"), voluntary savings funds, employer-based voluntary retirement plans ("APVC"), pension products, retirement annuities, mutual funds, life insurance accumulation products,
institutional asset management services and other long-term savings products.

We
offer mandatory employee-funded pension, APV and voluntary savings plans through Cuprum, the company we acquired in February 2013. As of December 31, 2013 we own 94.05% of
Cuprum, and the rest is publicly floated. Cuprum's products are sold through a proprietary sales network of approximately 650 sales employees. Cuprum ranked first in the Pension Superintendence
Customer Service Index for 19 consecutive trimesters (as of trimester ending August 2013).

We
offer APV and APVC plans through Principal Administradora Generale de Fondos, our wholly-owned mutual fund company. According to the Asociacion de Adminstradoras de Fondos Mutuous de
Chile, we ranked first in AUM for mutual fund companies offering these plans in Chile as of November 30, 2013. The plans, together with non-qualified mutual fund products, are distributed to
retail clients through our proprietary sales force, financial advisors, brokerage houses and alliances with financial institutions. We also offer institutional asset management
services to pension funds, insurance companies, sophisticated investors, mutual fund companies and investment platforms through our proprietary sales force.

We
offer mandatory retirement annuities and life insurance accumulation products through Principal Compania de Seguros de Vida Chile S.A., our wholly owned life insurance company.
Annuity products are distributed through a









network
of brokers and independent agents numbering approximately 385 as of December 31, 2013. Life insurance accumulation products are also offered to individuals through brokers and financial
advisors.

China.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to individuals and institutions through a joint venture, CCB
Principal Asset Management
Company, LTD. We own 25% and China Construction Bank ("CCB") is the majority partner with 65% ownership. We sell mutual funds primarily through our partner bank, CCB. The bank provides
extensive distribution capabilities for the joint venture in terms of brand awareness and the number of branch outlets, which number approximately 15,000 as of June 2013.

Hong Kong SAR.We offer both defined contribution pension and mutual fund products to corporate and retail clients through
wholly owned companies.

We
offer Mandatory Provident Fund ("MPF") schemes to serve the mandatory retirement market. We target small and medium-sized employers and distribute products through a proprietary sales
force that maintains relationships with third-party intermediaries such as insurance companies, independent financial advisors, brokers, consultants and banks. We also target individual account
holders who have changed jobs or are looking to consolidate their retirement accounts. We service over 225,000 MPF accounts.

We
sell mutual funds to retail customers seeking to accumulate assets for retirement and other long-term investment needs. Our mutual funds are distributed through a proprietary sales
force that maintains relationships with third-party intermediaries such as banks, insurance companies and independent financial advisors. To further grow our mutual fund business we will seek to
leverage our operations in the Hong Kong SAR to pursue potential opportunities created by the mutual recognition of fund products between Hong Kong and China. Mutual recognition was highlighted in
Supplement 10 of the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement agreement, and is subject to the approval of the Hong Kong and Chinese governments.

India.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to both retail and corporate customers through our joint venture
Principal PNB Asset
Management Company Private Limited. We own 66% and the partners are Punjab National Bank (30%) and Vijaya Bank (4%), two large Indian commercial banks with a combined network of approximately 7,000
branches. Mutual funds are sold through bank branches and proprietary sales offices located throughout India, by independent distributors and direct sales.

We
also have a proprietary distribution company, Principal Retirement Advisors, that focuses on promoting and advising on retirement and long term investment products in these emerging
markets.

Mexico.We offer defined contribution pension products, mutual funds, annuities and asset management services to institutional
clients through our
wholly-owned companies.

Through
our AFORE pension company, we manage and administer approximately 3.8 million individual retirement accounts under the mandatory privatized social security system for all
non-government and government employees in Mexico. We distribute products and services through a proprietary sales force of approximately 1,000 sales representatives as of December 31, 2013, as
well as independent brokers who sell directly to individuals. In addition, we have an agreement for the exclusive distribution of Principal AFORE's products through HSBC Bank's extensive network in
Mexico through 2017.

Our
mutual fund company distributes products and services through a sales force of approximately 70 employees and through distribution agreements with other financial entities. We
administer previously sold annuities and life products.

Mexico
has institutional asset management services, offering both domestic and international products, typically sold direct.

Southeast Asia.We offer conventional and Islamic mutual funds and fund management services through our joint venture
CIMB-Principal Asset Management
("CPAM"). We own 40% and the partner is CIMB Group, the second largest Malaysian bank with a strong presence in many Asian countries. CPAM ranked second in total unit trust assets managed and second
in Islamic unit trust assets managed in the Malaysian asset management industry as of December 31, 2013. CPAM also manages a significant amount of institutional asset mandates.

CPAM
distributes mutual funds through the branches of its partner bank (approximately 1,300 bank branches throughout Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore) and through an agency
sales force of approximately 5,100 agents selling to retail customers. CPAM also distributes its mutual funds through third party institutions including other banks and security houses.

As
of December 31, 2013 CPAM ranked second in private retirement schemes managed in the new voluntary retirement market.

The
joint venture also has wholly owned subsidiaries in Singapore (CIMB-Principal Asset Management (S) Pte Ltd), Indonesia (PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management) and Thailand
(CIMB-Principal Asset Management Company Limited).









U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment

Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment offers individual and group insurance solutions. We focus on providing comprehensive insurance
solutions for small and medium-sized businesses and their owners and executives. We organize our operations into two divisions: Individual Life Insurance and Specialty Benefits Insurance. However, we
share key resources in our core areas such as strategic leadership, distribution, and marketing.

Individual Life Insurance

We began as an individual life insurer in 1879. Our U.S. operations administer approximately 546,000 individual life insurance policies
with over $197 billion of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2013. We assist not only in personal insurance but also specialize in business insurance needs for small
to medium-sized companies through our wide range of business and nonqualified solutions.

Small
and medium-sized companies are challenged with how to build quality benefits packages for executives, how to transition the company's ownership to a partner or family member and
how to save for retirement. In addition, executives and other key employees often have personal insurance needs. These needs are the focus of our products within the individual life insurance arena.

Products and Services

Our Business Owner and Executive Solutions platform as well as our nonqualified deferred compensation offering combines administration
and consulting to service our clients' needs. We target the business and personal insurance needs of owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses with an increasing focus on providing
insurance solutions for nonqualified executive benefits. In addition, we market our products to meet traditional retail insurance needs. We offer a variety of individual life insurance products,
including universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance and term life insurance.

Universal and Variable Universal Life Insurance.Universal and variable universal life insurance products offer the policyholder
the option of
adjusting both the premium and the death benefit amounts of the insurance contract. Universal life insurance typically includes a cash value account that accumulates at a credited interest rate based
on the investment returns of the block of business. Variable universal life insurance is credited with the investment returns of the various investment options selected. For the year ended
December 31, 2013, 72% of individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales were generated from universal and variable universal life insurance products. Universal and variable
universal life insurance represents 40% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2013.

After
a deduction for policy level expenses, we credit net deposits to an account maintained for the policyholder. For universal life contracts, the entire account balance is invested in
the general account. Interest is credited to the policyholder's account based on the earnings on general account investments. For variable universal life contracts, the policyholder may allocate the
account balance among our general account and a variety of mutual funds underlying the contract. Interest is credited on amounts allocated to the Principal Life general account in the same manner as
for universal life. Net investment performance on mutual funds is allocated directly to the policyholder accounts; the policyholder bears the investment risk. Some of our universal life and variable
universal life insurance contracts contain what are commonly referred to as "secondary" or "no-lapse" guarantee provisions. A no-lapse guarantee keeps the contract in force, even if the
contractholder's account balance is insufficient to cover all of the contract charges, provided that the contractholder has continually paid a specified minimum premium.

Traditional Life Insurance.Traditional life insurance includes participating whole life, adjustable life products and
non-participating term life insurance products. Participating products and non-participating term life insurance products represented 28% of our individual life insurance annualized first year premium
sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, and 60% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2013. Adjustable life insurance products provide a guaranteed benefit in
return for the payment of a fixed premium and allow the policyholder to set the coverage period, premium and face amount combination. Term insurance products provide a guaranteed death benefit for a
specified period of time in return for the payment of a fixed premium. Policyholder dividends are not paid on term insurance.

Specialty Benefits Insurance

Specialty benefits insurance, which includes group dental, vision, life and disability insurance and individual disability insurance,
is an important component of the employee benefit offering at small and medium-sized businesses. We offer traditional employer sponsored and voluntary products for group dental, vision, life and
disability. We also offer group dental, vision, and disability on a fee-for-service basis.

Products and Services

Group Dental and Vision Insurance.We began selling group dental and vision insurance in the late 1960's. Our plans provide
partial reimbursement for
dental and vision expenses. As of December 31, 2013, we had over 34,000 group dental and vision insurance policies in force covering nearly 902,000 employee lives. According to Life Insurance
and Market Research Association ("LIMRA"), we were the 7th largest group dental insurer in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force in 2012. In addition to indemnity and preferred
provider organization dental offered on both an employer









paid
and voluntary basis, we offer a prepaid dental plan in Arizona through our Employers Dental Services, Inc. subsidiary. On November 1, 2012, we finalized the purchase of a 100%
interest in First Dental Health, a California based independent dental preferred provider organization. We acquired First Dental Health to expand our owned dental networks primarily in California.

Group Life Insurance.Group life insurance was one of our first group products beginning in the early 1940's. Our group life
insurance provides
coverage to employees and their dependents for a specified period. As of December 31, 2013, we had over 47,000 group policies providing nearly $117.6 billion of group life insurance in
force to approximately 1.9 million employee lives. According to LIMRA in 2012, we were ranked 4th in the U.S. in terms of the number of group life insurance contracts in force. We
currently sell traditional group life insurance that does not provide for accumulation of cash values on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Our group life insurance business remains focused on
the traditional, annually renewable term product. Group term life and group universal
life accounted for 97% and 3%, respectively, of our total group life insurance in force as of December 31, 2013. We no longer market group universal life insurance to new employer groups.

Group Disability Insurance.Group disability insurance has also been sold since the early 1940's. Our group disability insurance
provides a benefit
to insured employees who become disabled. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. Our group disability products include both short-term and long-term disability, offered on
both an employer paid and voluntary basis. As of December 31, 2013, long-term disability represents 63% of total group disability premium, while short-term disability represents 37% of total
group disability premium. In addition, we provide disability management services, also called rehabilitation services, to assist individuals in returning to work as quickly as possible following
disability. We also work with disability claimants to improve the approval rate of Social Security benefits, thereby reducing payment of benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received. As
of December 31, 2013, we served approximately 1.4 million employee lives under nearly 35,000 contracts. According to LIMRA, our group short-term disability business was ranked
6th and our group long-term disability business was ranked 4th in the U.S. as of December 31, 2012, in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force. We recently expanded
our product offering to include voluntary critical illness insurance. The insurance provides a lump-sum cash benefit to pay for additional expenses associated with the five most common critical
illnesses.

Individual Disability Insurance.Individual disability insurance has been sold since the early 1950's. Our individual disability
insurance products
provide income protection to the insured member and/or business in the event of disability. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. In addition to income replacement, we
offer products to pay business-related costs such as overhead expenses for a disabled business owner, buy-out costs for business owners purchasing a disabled owner's interest in the business,
expenditures for replacement of a key person and business loan payments. We also offer a product to protect retirement savings in the event of disability. As of December 31, 2013, we served
approximately 159,000 individual disability policyholders. According to LIMRA, our individual disability business is ranked 5th in the U.S. in terms of premium in force in the non-cancellable
segment of the market and 7th overall, as of December 31, 2012.

Fee-for-Service.We offer administration of group dental, disability and vision benefits on a fee-for-service basis.

U.S. Insurance Solutions Markets and Distribution

For each of our products, administration and distribution channels are customized to meet customer needs and expectations for that
product.

We
sell our individual life and individual disability income products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, primarily targeting owners and executives of small and medium-sized
businesses. Small and medium-sized business sales represented 57% of individual life sales and 63% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. Much of our life
insurance sales efforts focus on the Business Owner & Executive Solutions market. This strategy offers solutions to address business owner financial challenges such as exiting the business,
business transition, retaining key employees and retirement planning. Key employees also have needs to supplement retirement income, survivor income, and business protection. We believe the Business
Owner & Executive Solutions segment offers growth opportunities and we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market.

We
distribute our individual life and individual disability insurance products through our affiliated financial representatives and independent brokers, as well as other marketing and
distribution alliances. Affiliated financial representatives were responsible for 23% of individual life insurance sales based on first year annualized premium and 14% of individual disability sales
for the year ended December 31, 2013. We had 1,121 affiliated financial representatives in 31 offices as of December 31, 2013. Although they are independent contractors, we have a close
tie with affiliated financial representatives and we offer them benefits, training and access to tools and expertise. To meet the needs of the various marketing channels, particularly the independent
brokers, we employ wholesale distributors — Regional Vice Presidents for individual life and Regional Vice Presidents for individual disability. A key differentiator in the
nonqualified executive benefit sale is our Regional Vice Presidents-Nonqualified Plans, who are not only wholesalers but also consultants and subject-matter experts providing point-of-sale support in
closing cases.

We
market our group life, disability, dental and vision insurance products to small and medium-sized businesses, primarily targeting our sales toward owners and human resources
professionals. We sell our group life, disability, dental and vision products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. We continually adapt our products and pricing to meet









local
market conditions. We market our fee-for-service capabilities to employers that self-insure their employees' dental, disability and vision benefits. We market our fee-for-service businesses in
all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

The
group insurance market continues to see a shift to voluntary/worksite products due to various pressures on employers. In keeping with this market change, which shifts the funding of
such products from the employer to the employee, we continue to place an enhanced focus on our voluntary benefits platform. We believe the voluntary/worksite market presents growth opportunities, and
we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market.

As
of December 31, 2013, we had 108 sales representatives and 131 service representatives in 28 offices. Our sales representatives accounted for 97% of our group insurance sales
for the year ended December 31, 2013. The group sales force plays a key role in the ongoing servicing of the case by providing local, responsive services to our customers and their brokers,
such as renewing contracts, revising plans and solving any administrative issues; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their plans.

Corporate Segment

Our Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of
the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment
eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Results of our exited group medical
insurance business are reported in this segment. For further details, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations."

Competition

Competition in our segments is based on a number of factors including: scale, service, product features, price, investment performance,
commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds,
broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, greater diversity of distribution sources, better brand recognition
or, with respect to insurers, higher financial strength ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete or may have better investment performance at various times. We
believe we distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our:

•full service platform;•strong customer relationships;•focus on financial performance and•expansive product portfolio.

Ratings

Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Financial
strength ratings are generally defined as opinions as to an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Information about ratings provides both industry
participants and insurance consumers meaningful insights on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims.

Principal
Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company ("PNLIC") have been assigned the following insurer financial strength ratings:

Rating AgencyFinancial Strength RatingRating StructureA.M. Best Company, Inc.A+ ("Superior") with a stable outlookSecond highest of 16 rating levelsFitch Ratings Ltd.AA- ("Very Strong") with a negative outlookFourth highest of 21 rating levelsMoody's Investors ServiceA1 ("Good") with a stable outlookFifth highest of 21 rating levelsStandard & Poor'sA+ ("Strong") with a stable outlookFifth highest of 21 rating levels

A.M.
Best's ratings for insurance companies range from "A++" to "S". A.M. Best indicates that "A++" and "A+" ratings are assigned to those companies that in A.M. Best's
opinion have superior ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Fitch's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "C". Fitch "AA" ratings indicate very strong capacity to meet
policyholder and contractholder obligations on a timely basis. Moody's Investors Service ratings for insurance companies range from "Aaa" to "C". Moody's Investors Service indicates that "A" ratings
are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated good financial security. Standard & Poor's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "R". Standard & Poor's indicates
that "A" ratings are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated strong financial security characteristics. In evaluating a company's financial and operating performance, these rating agencies
review its profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of
its policy reserves, the soundness of its risk management programs, the experience and competency of its management and other factors. All of the four rating









agencies
maintain a 'stable' outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector. Moody's revised its outlook to 'stable' from 'negative' in December 2013. The rating agencies have indicated they expect
gradually increasing interest rates to take some of the earnings pressure off insurers, and rising equity markets will improve performance on variable products and assets under management. They expect
some stabilization of life insurers' revenues and earnings over the next 12-18 months.

We
believe our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, as ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used
throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations
directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. For more information on
ratings, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial
Strength Rating and Credit Ratings."

Regulation

Our businesses are subject to regulation and supervision by U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities as well as non-U.S.
regulatory authorities for our operations outside the U.S., which can have a significant effect on our business. Our businesses are also affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws as well as
tax laws for jurisdictions outside the U.S.

PFG,
our parent holding company, is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it is the holding company for all of
our operations, it is subject to regulation of our regulated entities, including as an insurance holding company. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to public companies,
including public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance.

U.S. Insurance Regulation

We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. Principal Life and
PNLIC are domiciled in Iowa and their principal insurance regulatory authority is the Insurance Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa. Our other U.S. insurance companies are
principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to
register with the insurance department in the insurance company's state of domicile and to furnish financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company
system. Transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and at arm's length. Most states have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect
change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company and laws requiring prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing
business in that state.

Annually,
our U.S. insurance companies must submit an opinion from a board-appointed qualified actuary to state insurance regulators, where licensed, on whether the statutory assets held
backing statutory reserves are sufficient to meet contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be rendered noting the sufficiency of assets, then the
insurance company must set up additional statutory reserves drawing from available statutory surplus until such an opinion can be given.

State
insurance departments have broad administrative powers over the insurance business, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent licensing, establishment of reserve
requirements and solvency standards, premium rate regulation, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, policy form approval, unfair trade and claims practices regulation and other matters. State
insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies. See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further details.

In
order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established risk-based capital standards. The standards require
life insurers to submit a report to state regulators on an annual basis regarding their risk-based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and
business risk. As of December 31, 2012, the statutory surplus of each of our U.S.
life insurance companies exceeded the minimum level of risk-based capital requirements required before state insurance departments would take action against an insurer.

State
and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or
investigations regarding our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws.

Each
state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover contractual benefit
obligations of insolvent insurance companies. The guaranty associations levy assessments on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the









premiums
written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit the member insurers to recover the assessments paid through full or
partial premium tax offsets.

Securities Regulation

Insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and some funding agreements that constitute
securities and mutual fund products are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority and other regulatory authorities. These regulations affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.

We
also have entities which are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act

As we provide products and services for U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act ("ERISA"). ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure requirements and standards of conduct.

Banking Regulation

Principal Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a federal savings bank regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Principal Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") making the Bank subject to certain of the FDIC's regulations. On December 31, 2013, our application
to deregister as a savings and loan holding company was approved by the Federal Reserve Board ("Federal Reserve"). As a result, we are no longer subject to oversight from or examination by the Federal
Reserve.

Environmental Regulation

As we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and could be subject to
environmental liabilities and costs associated with required remediation of our properties. We routinely have environmental assessments performed for real estate being acquired or used as collateral
for commercial mortgages we use for investment.

Regulation of International Businesses

Our international businesses are supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

Risk Management

Like all financial services companies, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in
Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Effective enterprise risk management is, therefore, a key component of our business model. Enterprise risk management helps us to:

•identify and manage those risks that present profitable growth opportunities, and avoid those that do not and•balance the sometimes competing demands of our various stakeholders, meet our customer obligations, satisfy regulatory
requirements and optimize shareholder returns relative to the risks we take.

We
utilize an integrated risk management framework to help us identify, assess, monitor, report and manage our risks within established limits and risk tolerances. The framework delivers
important perspective that is used in strategic and tactical decision making and is adaptable to changes in our businesses and in the external environments in which we operate. Our approach also
requires a commitment to continuous improvement and periodic validation.

Our
governance structure includes Board of Director oversight, internal risk committees, a corporate risk management function and embedded risk professionals in all of our business units
and functional areas. Our Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Human Resource Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee provide oversight no less frequently than quarterly
addressing various aspects and assessments of our risk profile. Quarterly reports on risk topics and an annual enterprise-wide risk report are provided to the Board of Directors by the Corporate Chief
Risk Officer.

Our
internal risk committees meet on a regular and frequent basis to discuss various issues and reflect on profile status. Each business unit and key functional area has its own risk
committee that is responsible for oversight of all risks within the unit. These committees typically include key corporate leaders. We also have committees that provide oversight around a certain risk
or group of related risks across the organization. This matrix approach helps us maintain comprehensive risk coverage and preserve an integrated view of risks. Two committees reside at the top of our
internal risk committee hierarchy. The Corporate Strategic Working Group provides enterprise-wide oversight around our strategic risk profile and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, comprised of
members from corporate senior management, exercises enterprise-wide oversight around all other risk profiles.









The business units and functional areas are responsible for identifying, assessing, monitoring, reporting and managing their own risks. Chief Risk Officers
embedded within each business unit or risk professionals in functional areas help align risk management practice with the strategies of the unit as well as with enterprise-wide objectives. The
Corporate Chief Risk Officer and supporting staff are separate from the business units and provide objective oversight, framework enablement and aggregated risk analysis. Internal Audit provides
independent assurance around effective risk management design and control execution.

We
have established risk tolerances from an overall corporate perspective, a business unit perspective, and for specific categories of risks. We monitor a variety of risk metrics on an
ongoing basis and take the appropriate steps to help us stay within our established risk tolerances. Potentially significant actions are considered in terms of the possible impact on our risk profile,
including but not limited to the capital required, the impact on near term and long-term earnings and the ability to meet our targets with respect to return on equity, liquidity, debt/capital, cash
coverage, business risk and operational risk. Quarterly risk reporting provides a feedback loop between the business units and the Corporate Chief Risk Officer and includes, among other things,
emerging risk outlooks or incident reporting, if necessary. We have developed a Business Continuity Management Program that identifies critical business functions and includes plans for their
protection and recovery in the event of a disaster or other business interruption.

We
regularly build upon our already strong risk management practices to incorporate updated modeling tools, processes and metrics, which we actively use to better understand and manage
our business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had 14,792 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Internet Website

Our Internet website can be found at www.principal.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website, access to
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available free of charge on our Internet website is our
code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and charters for the Audit, Finance, Human Resources and Nominating and Governance committees of our Board of Directors. Also see
Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance."

