Item 1.    Business

Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG") is a leading provider of retirement savings, investment and insurance products and services
with $335.0 billion in assets under management ("AUM") and approximately 18.0 million customers worldwide as of December 31, 2011.

Our
U.S. and international operations concentrate primarily on asset accumulation and asset management. In addition, we offer a broad range of individual and group life insurance,
individual and group disability insurance and group dental and vision insurance.

We
primarily focus on small and medium-sized businesses, which we define as companies with less than 1,000 employees, providing a broad array of retirement and employee benefit
solutions to meet the needs of the business, the business owner and their employees. We are the leading provider of corporate defined contribution plans in the U.S., according to Spectrem Group. We
are also the leading employee stock ownership plan consultant. In addition, we are a leading provider of nonqualified plans, defined benefit plans and plan termination annuities. We are also one of
the largest providers of specialty benefits insurance product solutions.

We
believe small and medium-sized businesses are an underserved market, offering attractive growth opportunities in the U.S. in retirement services and other employee benefits. We also
believe there is a significant opportunity to leverage our U.S. retirement expertise into select international markets that have adopted or are moving toward private sector defined contribution
pension systems. This opportunity is particularly compelling as aging populations around the world are driving increased demand for retirement accumulation, retirement asset management and retirement
income management solutions.

Our Reportable Segments

We organize our businesses into the following reportable segments:

•Retirement and Investor Services;•Principal Global Investors;•Principal International and•U.S. Insurance Solutions.

We
also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment.

See
Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information" for financial results of our segments,
including our operating revenues for our products and services described in each of the subsequent segment discussions.

Retirement and Investor Services Segment

Our asset accumulation activities in the U.S. date back to the 1940s when we first began providing pension plan products and services.
We now offer a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services for retirement savings and investment:

•To businesses of all sizes with a concentration on small and medium-sized businesses, we offer products and services for
defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") consulting
services. For more basic investment needs, we offer SIMPLE Individual Retirement Accounts ("IRA") and payroll deduction plans;•To large institutional clients, we also offer investment-only products, including guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs")
and funding agreements and•To employees of businesses and other individuals, we offer the ability to accumulate savings for retirement and other
purposes through mutual funds, individual annuities and bank products.

We
organize our Retirement and Investor Services operations into six product and service categories: full service accumulation, Principal Funds (our mutual fund business), individual
annuities, bank and trust services, investment only and full service payout.

Full Service Accumulation

Products

We offer a wide variety of investment and administrative products for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b)
plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and ESOPs. A 403(b) plan is a plan described in Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that provides retirement
benefits for employees of tax-exempt organizations and public schools.









Full
service accumulation products respond to the needs of plan sponsors seeking both administrative and investment services for defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The
investment component of both the defined contribution and defined benefit plans may be in the form of a general account, separate account, a mutual fund offering or a collective investment trust. In
addition, defined contribution plans may also offer their own employer security as an investment option.

As
of December 31, 2011, we provided full service accumulation products to over 29,600 defined contribution pension plans, of which approximately 24,200 were 401(k) plans,
covering 3.2 million eligible plan participants, and to over 2,400 defined benefit pension plans, covering over 325,000 eligible plan participants. As of December 31, 2011, approximately
61% of our full service accumulation account values were managed by our affiliated asset manager, Principal Global Investors. Third-party asset managers provide asset management services with respect
to the remaining assets.

We
deliver both administrative and investment services to our defined contribution plan and defined benefit plan customers through annuities and mutual funds. Annuities and the
underlying investment options are not required to be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our mutual fund offering is called Principal Advantage. It is a
qualified plan product based on our series mutual fund, Principal Funds, Inc. We offer investments covering the full range of stable value, equity, fixed income, real estate and international
investment options managed by our Principal Global Investors segment as well as third-party asset managers.

Markets and Distribution

We offer our full service accumulation products and services to employer-sponsored pension plans, including qualified and nonqualified
defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Our primary target market is plans sponsored by small and medium-sized businesses, which we believe remains under-penetrated. According to
Spectrem Group, in 2010, only 24% of businesses with between 10 and 49 employees, 48% of businesses with between 50 and 99 employees, 55% of businesses with between 100 and
249 employees and 62% of businesses with between 250 and 500 employees offered a 401(k) plan. The same study indicates that 73% of employers with between 500 and 1,000 employees,
84% of employers with between 1,000 and 5,000 employees and 86% of employers with 5,000 or more employees offered a 401(k) plan in 2010.

We
distribute our full service accumulation products and services nationally, primarily through a captive retirement services sales force. As of December 31, 2011, over 110
retirement services sales representatives in over 42 offices, operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 11,600 independent brokers, consultants and agents.
Retirement services sales representatives are an integral part of the sales process alongside the referring consultant or independent broker. We compensate retirement services sales representatives
through a blend of salary and production-based incentives, while we pay independent brokers, consultants and agents a commission or fee.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had a separate staff of over 280 service and education specialists located in the sales offices who play a key role in the ongoing servicing of pension
plans by providing local services to our customers, such as reviewing plan performance, investment options and plan design; communicating the customers' needs and
feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their pension plans. The following summarizes our distribution channels:

•We distribute our annuity-based products through sales representatives, agents and brokers who are primarily state
licensed individuals.•Principal Advantage, our mutual fund-based product, is targeted at defined contribution plans through broker-dealer
distribution channels. Principal Advantage gives us access to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-registered distributors who are not traditional sellers of annuity-based products and broadens
opportunities for us in the investment advisor and broker-dealer distribution channels.•Principal Retirement Income Edge® is designed to create a coordinated experience from accumulation to income
management for advisors to use with their individual clients and plan participants who are nearing or enjoying retirement. The Principal Retirement Income Edge® program provides education
and planning tools as well as a wide variety of products such as annuities, mutual funds and bank products to provide personalized income management solutions.•Through our Retire Secure strategy we provide financial education and assistance to individual investors who are
participants/members of employer-based accumulation solutions to help them achieve financial security.

We
believe that our approach to full service accumulation plan services distribution gives us a local sales and service presence that differentiates us from many of our competitors. We
have also established a number of marketing and distribution relationships to increase the sales of our accumulation products.

Principal Funds

We have been providing mutual funds to customers since 1969. We offer mutual funds to individuals, businesses and institutional
investors for use within variable life and variable annuity contracts, for use in employer-sponsored pension plans, as a rollover investment option, and for general investment purposes.









Products and Services

Principal Funds plans to grow into a top advisor sold mutual fund company with a sales force focused on multiple channels. As of
December 2011, as reported by the Strategic Insight, we are ranked 21st according to AUM (long term funds) of the top 50 intermediary sold mutual funds. We provide accounting, compliance,
corporate governance and product development for all mutual funds we organize. As of December 31, 2011, our mutual fund operations served approximately 1.1 million mutual fund
shareholder accounts.

Principal Funds, Inc.Principal Funds, Inc. ("PFI") is a series mutual fund that, as of December 31, 2011, offered 63
investment options. This
fund's five R class shares act as the funding vehicle for Principal Advantage, the defined contribution product described above under "Retirement and Investor Services
Segment — Full Service Accumulation — Products." This fund also offers three retail classes of shares to individuals. One of the three retail share classes is for
IRA rollovers (J shares) and two are for general investment purposes (A and C shares). Two additional classes of shares are available: (1) I shares, which are offered
primarily to specified institutional investors, and (2) P shares, which are used primarily in adviser fee-based programs. As of December 31, 2011, the retail classes of shares had
$24.4 billion of AUM. All other share classes of Principal Funds, Inc. had $39.2 billion of AUM. We report the results for this fund, excluding the retail AUM, under "Full Service
Accumulation." We report the results of the retail AUM under "Principal Funds."

Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc.Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. is a series mutual fund that, as of
December 31, 2011,
provided 34 investment options for variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts issued by Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") and other insurance companies not affiliated
with Principal Life. As of December 31, 2011, this fund had $5.3 billion of AUM. AUM backing Principal Life variable annuity contracts is reported in this segment under "Individual
Annuities." AUM backing Principal Life variable life insurance contracts is reported in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment.

Principal Managed Portfolio.Principal Managed Portfolio is an advisory product offered by our registered investment advisor,
Princor Financial
Services Corporation ("Princor"), which permits the client to invest only in Principal Funds, Inc. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on this product. As of December 31, 2011,
Principal Managed Portfolio had accumulated $608.0 million in assets.

Principal Advisory Select and Principal Dynamic Portfolios.These are advisory products offered by our registered investment
advisor, Princor, which
permits the client to invest in a broad array of investments. Clients are charged a quarterly asset-based fee on these products. As of December 31, 2011, these products had accumulated
$1.6 billion in assets.

Markets and Distribution

Our markets for PFI's retail share classes are individuals seeking to accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes, as well as
nonqualified individual savings plans utilizing payroll deductions. We
also market PFI's retail share classes to participants in pension plans who are departing their plans and reinvesting their retirement assets into individual retirement accounts.

We
sell PFI's retail share classes primarily through registered representatives from other broker-dealers; affiliated financial representatives; independent brokers registered with our
securities broker-dealer, Princor; direct deposits from our employees and others and Principal Connection. As of December 31, 2011, 58 retail sales representatives across the United States,
operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 36,700 independent brokers, consultants and agents. Principal Connection is our direct response distribution channel
for retail financial services products to individuals. Principal Connection's services are available over the phone, on the Internet or by mail. Princor recruits, trains and supervises registered
representatives selling our products through Principal Connection.

Individual Annuities

Individual annuities offer a tax-deferred means of accumulating retirement savings, as well as a tax-efficient source of income during
the payout period.

Products

We offer both fixed and variable annuities to individuals and pension plans. Individual annuities may be categorized in two ways:
(1) deferred, in which case assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the customer dies or the customer begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option, or
(2) immediate/payout, in which case payments begin within one year of issue and continue for a fixed period of time or for life.

Fixed Deferred Annuities.Our individual fixed deferred annuities consist of both single premium deferred annuity contracts and
flexible premium
deferred annuity contracts ("FPDAs"). Some FPDA contracts limit the period of time deposits are allowed (e.g., only one year). For most contracts, the principal amount is guaranteed. We credit the
customer's account with a fixed interest rate and for a specified number of years. Thereafter, we reset, typically annually, the interest rate credited to the contract based upon our discretion,
subject to contractual minimums, by taking into account market and other conditions. We also offer a fixed deferred annuity where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, subject
to maximum and minimum values. Our major source of income from fixed deferred annuities is the spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest









rate
credited to the contracts. We bear the investment risk because, while we credit customers' accounts with a stated interest rate, we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general
account assets will exceed that rate. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts.

Variable Deferred Annuities.

Fixed Immediate Annuities.Our individual fixed immediate annuities consist almost exclusively of single premium immediate
annuity contracts
("SPIAs"). SPIAs are products where the customer makes a single deposit and from which periodic benefit payments are made. Payments may be contingent upon the survival of one or two individuals or
payments may be fixed, meaning payments are contractually guaranteed and do not depend on the continuing survival of any individual. Our major source of income from fixed immediate annuities is the
spread between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate implied in the calculation of annuity benefit payments. We bear the investment risk because
we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general account assets will exceed the rate implied in the SPIA contracts. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets
supporting these contracts.

Markets and Distribution

Our target markets for individual annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and
individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market both fixed and variable annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified
retirement savings.

We
sell our individual annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 50%, 43% and 34% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. Affiliated
financial representatives continued to be the primary distribution channel of our variable deferred annuities. The majority of overall annuity sales, however, were from non-affiliated distribution
channels, as a result of focused efforts to increase fixed annuity sales through non-affiliated distribution channels.

Bank and Trust Services

Bank and trust services includes Principal Bank and Principal Trust Company. Principal Bank is a federal savings bank that began its
activities in February 1998. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Bank had
over 240,000 customers and approximately $2.4 billion in assets. Delaware Charter Guarantee & Trust Company, dba Principal Trust Company, is a Delaware state chartered non-deposit trust
company that was chartered in 1899. It is one of the largest non-deposit trust companies in the U.S. As of December 31, 2011, we served as trustee to over 436,000 accounts, which held assets of
approximately $103.7 billion. Principal Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.

Products

Our current bank products and services include a suite of consumer checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates
of deposit ("CDs"), individual retirement accounts and small account rollovers from qualified retirement plans. In addition, we offer deposit and loan services to small and medium-sized businesses.
Principal Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The
deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity and are used to fund purchases of investment securities and loans.

Principal
Trust Company specializes in providing trust solutions for a full array of employee benefit plans and accounts including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans,
nonqualified executive benefit plans, ESOPs, and self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts, such as IRAs. Principal Trust Company also maintains a series of collective investment funds, The
Principal TrustSMTarget Date Funds, and provides personal trust services.









Markets and Distribution

We offer our bank products and services to employees of businesses and other individuals, through Principal Connection, our affiliated
financial representatives and other PFG affiliates with a primary focus on helping customers accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes. We also pursue asset retention strategies with
customers who seek to transfer assets from our other asset accumulation products by offering them our banking products and services. Principal Bank services customers through the telephone, mail and
Internet.

We
deliver our directed trust services to customers through our PFG affiliates. Administrative trust services for self-directed tax-advantaged savings accounts are sold through
non-affiliated brokerage firms, clearing firms, financial advisors and asset managers.

Investment Only

Products

The three primary products for which we provide investment only services are: GICs, funding agreements and other investment only
products.

GICs
and funding agreements pay a specified rate of return. The rate of return can be a floating rate based on an external market index or a fixed rate. Our investment only products
contain provisions disallowing or limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements.

Deposits
to investment only products are predominantly in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new deposits can fluctuate from one fiscal quarter to another. Assets
invested in GICs and funding agreements generate a spread between the investment income earned by us and the amount credited to the customer. Our other investment only products consist of separate
accounts invested in either equities or fixed income instruments. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting investment only account values.

Markets and Distribution

We market GICs and funding agreements primarily to pension plan sponsors and other institutions. We also offer them as part of our full
service accumulation products. We sell our GICs primarily to plan sponsors for funding of tax-qualified retirement plans. We sell our funding agreements directly to institutions that may or may not be
pension funds and unconsolidated special purpose vehicles domiciled either in the U.S. or offshore for funding agreement-backed note programs. The funding agreements sold as part of these funding
agreement-backed note programs work by having investors purchase debt obligations from the special purpose vehicle which, in turn, purchases the funding agreement from us with terms similar to those
of the debt obligations. The strength of this market is dependent on debt capital market conditions. As a result, our sales through this channel can vary widely from one quarter to another.

Full Service Payout

Products

Full service payout products respond to the needs of pension plan participants who, upon retirement or termination of their employment,
seek a guaranteed income stream. Plan participants who seek these services include those from pension plans we service, as well as pension plans other providers service. We primarily offer single
premium group annuities, which are immediate or deferred annuities that provide a current or future specific income amount, fully guaranteed by us. These are available to defined contribution and
defined benefit plan participants. We make regular payments to individuals, invest the underlying assets on their behalf and provide tax reporting to them. We also reinsure single premium immediate
annuities issued by another insurer.

Single
premium group annuities are traditionally used in conjunction with defined benefit plans, particularly those where the plan is being terminated. In such instances, the plan
sponsor transfers all its obligations under the plan to an insurer by paying a single premium. Increasingly, these products are purchased by defined contribution plan participants who reach retirement
age. Generally, plan sponsors restrict their purchases to insurance companies with superior or excellent financial quality ratings because the Department of Labor has mandated that annuities be
purchased only from the "safest available" insurers.

Premium
received from full service payout products are generally in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new premiums can fluctuate depending on the number of
retirements and large-scale annuity sales in a particular fiscal quarter. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting full service payout account values.

Markets and Distribution

Our primary distribution channel for full service payout products is comprised of several specialized home office sales consultants
working through consultants and brokers that specialize in this type of business. Our sales consultants also make sales directly to institutions. Our nationally dispersed retirement services sales
representatives act as a secondary distribution channel for these products. Principal Connection also distributes full service payout products to participants in plans we service who are terminating
employment or retiring.









Principal Global Investors Segment

Our Principal Global Investors segment manages assets for sophisticated investors around the world, using a multi-boutique strategy
that enables the segment to provide an expanded range of diverse investment capabilities including equity, fixed income and real estate investments. We also have experience in currency management,
asset allocation, stable value management and other structured investment strategies. We focus on providing services to our other segments and third-party institutional clients. We maintain offices in
Australia, Brazil, Dubai, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States.

We
deliver our products and services through our network of specialized investment groups and boutiques including Principal Global Investors — Equities; Principal
Global Investors — Fixed Income; Principal Real Estate Investors; Principal Enterprise Capital; Spectrum Asset Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Columbus Circle Investors; Edge
Asset Management; Morley Financial Services; Macro Currency Group; Finisterre Capital LLP and Origin Asset Management LLP. Additionally, Multi-Asset Advisors was established during 2011 to provide
advice on multi-asset strategies to clients globally and to manage customized multi-asset products. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques managed
$227.8 billion in assets.

Products and Services

Our products and services are provided for a fee as defined by client mandates. Our fees are generally driven by AUM. We are
diversified across three primary asset classes.

Equity Investments.As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors — Equities along with Columbus Circle
Investors,
Edge Asset Management and Origin Asset Management LLP managed $68.4 billion in global equity assets. Our equity capabilities encompass large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks in developed and
emerging markets worldwide. As of December 31, 2011, 42% of equity AUM was derived from our pension products, 25% from other products of PFG and the remaining 33% from third-party institutional
clients.

Fixed Income Investments.As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors — Fixed Income along with Spectrum
Asset
Management; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Edge Asset Management; Morley Financial Services and Finisterre Capital LLP managed $116.2 billion in global fixed income assets. Collectively, our
experience in fixed income management spans multiple economic and credit market cycles, and encompasses all major fixed income sectors and security types. Our research and risk management capabilities
in worldwide debt markets provide a strong foundation for broadly diversified "multi-sector" portfolios, tailored to specific client objectives. As of December 31, 2011, 33% of these assets
were derived from our pension products, 33% from other products of PFG, and the remaining 34% from third-party institutional clients.

Real Estate Investments.Principal Global Investors, through its affiliates Principal Real Estate Investors and Principal
Enterprise Capital, managed
a portfolio of primarily U.S. commercial real estate assets of $38.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Principal Real Estate Investors provides our clients with a broad range of real
estate investment options including private real estate equity, commercial mortgages, bridge/mezzanine loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities and real estate investment trust securities. As of
December 31, 2011, 28% of the commercial real estate portfolio was derived from our pension products, 29% from other products of PFG and the remaining 43% from third-party institutional
clients.

Other.We offer products and services through other asset classes including managing currency mandates through our Macro
Currency Group boutique. As
of December 31, 2011, we managed $4.5 billion with 100% of these assets derived from third-party institutional clients.

Multi-Asset
Advisors was established during 2011 to provide advice on multi-asset strategies to global clients and to develop and manage customized multi-asset products to address
specific client needs. Multi-Asset Advisors helps Principal Global Investors optimize our broad range of capabilities while enhancing our position as a thought leader and trusted advisor to large
institutional clients.

Markets and Distribution

We employed 103 institutional sales, relationship management and client service professionals as of December 31, 2011, who
worked with consultants and directly with large investors to acquire and retain third-party institutional clients. As of December 31, 2011, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques had
approximately 647 third-party institutional clients with $82.4 billion of AUM in 35 countries.

Principal International Segment

Our Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR"), India,
Mexico and Southeast Asia. We focus on countries with large middle classes, favorable demographics, and growing long-term savings, ideally with defined contribution retirement markets. We entered
these locations through acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures.

The
activities of our Principal International segment reflect our efforts to accelerate the growth of our AUM by capitalizing on the international trend toward private sector defined
contribution pension systems and individual long-









term
savings. Through the Principal International segment, we offer retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products.

Products, Markets and Distribution

Brazil.We offer pension, retirement income and asset accumulation products through a co-managed joint venture, Brasilprev
Seguros e
Previdencia ("Brasilprev") in which PFG owns 25% of the economic interest and 50.01% of the voting shares. The partner is Banco do Brasil ("Banco"), which had approximately 5,140 Brazilian branches as
of September 30, 2011. Brasilprev has an exclusive agreement with Banco to distribute pension, retirement and long-term asset accumulation products. Our joint venture provides defined
contribution products, complementary
life protection and payout solutions for the retirement needs of employers and individuals. Banco's employees sell these products directly to individual clients through its bank branches. In addition,
our joint venture reaches corporate clients through two wholesale distribution channels: (1) a network of independent brokers who sell to the public and (2) Banco's corporate account
executives selling to existing and prospective corporate clients. According to Federação Nacional de Previdência e Vida, our joint venture ranked third in
the Brazilian private pension market based upon managed assets as of November 30, 2011.

Chile.We offer long-term savings products, retirement annuities, mutual funds, life insurance accumulation products, mortgage
loans and
institutional asset management services.

Retirement
annuities are offered to individuals exiting the pre-retirement accumulation system. Annuity products are distributed through a network of brokers and independent agents
numbering approximately 340 as of December 31, 2011.

We
serve the individual and group voluntary/complementary long-term savings market by offering "APV plans" (qualified individual retirement solutions) and "APVC plans" (qualified group
retirement solutions that are similar to the U.S. 401(k) product line). According to the Asociacion de Adminstradoras de Fondos Mutuous de Chile, we ranked first in AUM for mutual fund companies
offering these plans in Chile as of November 30, 2011. The plans, together with non-qualified mutual fund products, are distributed to retail clients through our proprietary sales force,
financial advisors, brokerage houses, alliances with financial institutions and the largest retailer in Chile, Falabella.

Life
insurance accumulation products are also offered to individuals through brokers and financial advisors. We originate, sell and service individual residential mortgage loans in Chile
through our independent distribution network, which is composed primarily of real estate brokers and developers. We also offer institutional asset management services to pension funds, insurance
companies, mutual fund companies and investment platforms through our proprietary sales force.

China.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to individuals and institutions through a minority-held joint venture
that includes China
Construction Bank ("CCB"), the majority partner. We sell mutual funds primarily through our partner bank, CCB. The bank provides extensive distribution capabilities for the joint venture in terms of
brand awareness and the number of branch outlets, which number approximately 13,630.

Hong Kong SAR.We sell defined contribution pension, mutual fund and institutional asset management products.

We
actively compete in the defined contribution pension plan market. The government currently requires both employers and employees to each contribute 5% of an employee's income to a
Mandatory Provident Fund ("MPF"). We target small and medium-sized employers and distribute products through strategic alliances with insurance companies, brokers, consultants, banks and direct
marketing. Our alliance partners distribute our MPF products and services or use our administrative and investment services in their own products. We are expanding our distribution capability to
complement our MPF and mutual fund businesses by developing a proprietary sales force that will focus on retirement and long-term investment products.

We
sell mutual funds to retail customers primarily through strategic alliances with banks. To grow institutional asset management, our operations in Hong Kong SAR leverage Principal
Global Investors' regional asset management and sales resources to jointly secure mandates.

India.We offer mutual funds and asset management services to both retail and corporate customers.

In
the mutual funds market, we compete by managing and administering funds for both individuals and corporations through a majority-owned joint venture. The minority partners are Punjab
National Bank and Vijaya Bank, two large Indian commercial banks with a combined network of approximately 6,350 branches. Mutual funds are sold through regional offices and other bank branches located
throughout India. In addition to the current mutual fund business, we are positioning ourselves to compete in the emerging pension and long-term savings market in India by developing a proprietary
distribution company that will focus on retirement and long-term investment products.

Mexico.We offer defined contribution pension products, mutual funds, annuities and asset management services to institutional
clients.

On
August 8, 2011, we finalized the purchase of our 100% interest in HSBC AFORE, S.A. de C.V. ("HSBC AFORE"), a Mexican pension business, from HSBC Bank. In addition, on
November 23, 2011, we and Grupo Financiero HSBC signed an exclusive agreement for the distribution of Principal AFORE's products through Grupo Financiero









HSBC's
extensive network in Mexico. HSBC AFORE was merged into our AFORE pension company. Through our AFORE pension company we manage and administer approximately 4.3 million individual
retirement accounts under the mandatory privatized social security system for all non-government employees in Mexico. We distribute products and services through a proprietary sales force of
approximately 1,240 sales representatives as of December 31, 2011, as well as independent brokers who sell directly to individuals.

Our
mutual fund company distributes products and services through a sales force of approximately 35 employees and through distribution agreements with other financial entities. We
administer previously sold annuities and life products. Due to unfavorable market conditions, sales of our annuity and life products in Mexico were suspended in 2007.

Mexico
has institutional asset management services, offering both domestic and international products.

Southeast Asia.We offer conventional and Islamic mutual funds through our minority-held joint venture with CIMB Group, the
majority partner. CIMB
Group is a large Malaysian bank holding company with a presence in many Southeast Asian countries. The company has a sales force of approximately 5,960 agents selling to retail customers as of
December 31, 2011. We also market mutual funds through wholesale bank channels. The joint venture's main bank
channels include approximately 1,100 bank branches throughout Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore. CIMB-Principal Asset Management ranked second in total unit trust assets managed
and second in Islamic unit trust assets managed in the Malaysian asset management industry as of November 30, 2011. The companies also manage a significant amount of institutional asset
mandates.

The
joint venture also has operations in Singapore (CIMB-Principal Asset Management (S) Pte Ltd), Indonesia (PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management) and
Thailand (CIMB-Principal Asset Management Company Limited).

U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment

Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment offers individual life insurance and specialty benefits, which include group dental, group vision,
group life, group disability, wellness and individual disability insurance. We focus on providing comprehensive insurance solutions for small and medium-sized businesses and their owners and
executives.

Individual Life Insurance

We began as an individual life insurer in 1879. Our U.S. operations administer approximately 542,000 individual life insurance policies
with over $146.0 billion of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011.

Small
and medium-sized companies are challenged with how to build quality benefits packages for executives, how to transition the company's ownership to a partner or family member and
how to save for retirement. In addition, executives and other key employees often have personal insurance needs. These needs are the focus of our products within the individual life insurance arena.

Products and Services

We offer a variety of individual life insurance products, including universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance and
term life insurance. We target the personal insurance needs of owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses with an increasing focus on providing insurance solutions for nonqualified
executive benefits. In addition, we market our products to meet traditional retail insurance needs.

Universal and Variable Universal Life Insurance.Universal and variable universal life insurance products offer the policyholder
the option of
adjusting both the premium and the death benefit amounts of the insurance contract. Universal life insurance typically includes a cash value account that accumulates at a credited interest rate based
on the investment returns of the block of business. Variable universal life insurance is credited with the investment returns of the various investment options selected. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, 78% of individual life
insurance annualized first year premium sales were generated from universal and variable universal life insurance products. Universal and variable universal life insurance represents 67% of individual
life insurance premium and deposits for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 47% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. Variable universal life insurance
products represented 28% of our universal and variable universal life insurance deposits for the year ended December 31, 2011.

After
a deduction for policy level expenses, we credit net deposits to an account maintained for the policyholder. For universal life contracts, the entire account balance is invested in
the general account. Interest is credited to the policyholder's account based on the earnings on general account investments. For variable universal life contracts, the policyholder may allocate the
account balance among our general account and a variety of separate account choices. Interest is credited on amounts allocated to the Principal Life general account in the same manner as for universal
life. Net investment performance on separate account investments is allocated directly to the policyholder accounts; the policyholder bears the investment risk. Some of our universal life and variable
universal life insurance contracts contain what are commonly referred to as "secondary" or "no-lapse" guarantee provisions. A no-lapse guarantee keeps the contract in force,
even if the contractholder's account balance is insufficient to cover all of the contract charges, provided that the contractholder has continually paid a specified minimum premium.









Traditional Life Insurance.Traditional life insurance includes participating whole life, adjustable life products and
non-participating term life
insurance products. Participating products and non-participating term life insurance products represented 5% and 17%, respectively, of our individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales
for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 16% and 37%, respectively, of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. Adjustable life insurance products provide a
guaranteed benefit in return for the payment of a fixed premium and allow the policyholder to set the coverage period, premium and face amount combination. Term insurance products provide a guaranteed
death benefit for a specified period of time in return for the payment of a fixed premium. Policyholder dividends are not paid on term insurance.

Specialty Benefits Insurance

Specialty benefits insurance, which includes group dental, vision, life and disability insurance and individual disability insurance is
an important component of the employee benefit offering at small and medium-sized businesses. We offer traditional employer sponsored and voluntary products for group dental, vision, life and
disability. We also offer group dental, vision, and disability on a fee-for-service basis. We began selling our first specialty benefit products in 1941 with group disability and group life insurance.
We began selling individual disability insurance in 1952 and group dental and group vision insurance in the late 1960s. Effective January 1, 2011, Principal Wellness Company, a provider of
wellness services since 2004, transitioned to the Specialty Benefits Insurance division. Also effective January 1, 2011, our fee-for-service group dental, vision, and disability business
transitioned to this division.

Products and Services

Group Dental and Vision Insurance.Group dental and vision insurance plans provide partial reimbursement for dental and vision
expenses. As of
December 31, 2011, we had over 33,000 group dental and vision insurance policies in force covering over 896,000 employee lives. According to LIMRA, we were the 8th largest group dental
insurer in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force in 2010. In addition to indemnity and preferred provider organization dental offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis, we
offer a prepaid dental plan in Arizona through our Employers Dental Services, Inc. subsidiary.

Group Life Insurance.Group life insurance provides coverage to employees and their dependents for a specified period. As of
December 31,
2011, we had nearly 44,000 group policies providing over $109.0 billion of group life insurance in force to approximately 1.8 million employee lives. According to LIMRA in 2010, we were
ranked 4th in the U.S. in terms of the number of group life insurance contracts in force. We currently sell traditional group life insurance that does not provide for accumulation of cash
values on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Our group life insurance business remains focused on the traditional, annually renewable term product. Group term life and group universal life
accounted for 97% and 3%, respectively, of our total group life insurance in force as of December 31, 2011. We no longer market group universal life insurance to new employer groups.

Group Disability Insurance.Group disability insurance provides a benefit to insured employees who become disabled. In most
instances, this benefit
is in the form of a monthly income. Our group disability products include both short-term and long-term disability, offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Long-term disability
represents 65% of total group disability premium, while short-term disability represents 35% of total group disability premium. In addition, we provide disability management services, also called
rehabilitation services, to assist individuals in returning to work as quickly as possible following disability. We also work with disability claimants to improve the approval rate of Social Security
benefits, thereby reducing payment of benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received. As of December 31, 2011, we served approximately 1.2 million employee lives under
nearly 31,000 contracts, with our group short-term disability business being ranked 5th and our group long-term disability business being ranked 5th in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010, in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force, according to LIMRA.

Individual Disability Insurance.Individual disability insurance products provide a benefit to the insured member in the event
he/she becomes
disabled. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. In addition to income replacement, we offer products to pay business-related costs such as overhead expenses for a
disabled business owner, buy-out costs for business owners purchasing a disabled owner's interest in the business, expenditures for replacement of a key person and business loan payments. As of
December 31, 2011, we served approximately 140,000 individual disability policyholders, with our individual disability business being ranked 7th in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010, in
terms of premium in force, according to LIMRA.

Principal Wellness Company.We recognize the importance of promoting healthy behavior. Principal Wellness Company contributes
expertise in providing
a year round wellness program, wellness screenings, counseling and other services to employers and their employees, designed to improve health, reduce health insurance claim costs, reduce absenteeism
and increase employee productivity.

Fee-for-Service.We offer administration of group dental, disability and vision benefits on a fee-for-service basis.









U.S. Insurance Solutions Markets and Distribution

For each of our products, administration and distribution channels are customized to meet customer needs and expectations for that
product.

We
sell our individual life and individual disability income products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, primarily targeting owners and executives of small and
medium-sized businesses. Small and medium-sized business sales represented 59% of individual life sales and 51% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Much of our
life insurance sales efforts focus on the Business Owner & Executive Solutions market. This strategy offers solutions to address business owner financial challenges such as exiting the
business, business transition, retaining key employees and retirement planning. Key employees also have needs to supplement retirement income, survivor income, and business protection. We believe the
Business Owner & Executive Solutions segment offers growth opportunities and we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market.

We
distribute our individual life and individual disability insurance products through our affiliated financial representatives and independent brokers, as well as other marketing and
distribution alliances. Affiliated financial representatives were responsible for 30% of individual life insurance sales based on first year annualized premium and 14% of individual disability sales
for the year ended December 31, 2011. We had 1,013 affiliated financial representatives in 29 offices. Although they are independent contractors, we have a close tie with affiliated
financial representatives and we offer them benefits, training and access to tools and expertise. To meet the needs of the various marketing channels, particularly the independent brokers, we employ
wholesale distributors — Regional Vice Presidents for individual life and Disability Income Regional Vice Presidents for individual disability. A key differentiator in the
nonqualified executive benefit sale is our Regional Vice Presidents — Nonqualified Plans, who are not only wholesalers but also consultants and subject-matter experts providing
point-of-sale support in closing cases.

We
market our group life, disability, dental and vision insurance products to small and medium-sized businesses, primarily targeting our sales toward owners and human resources
professionals. We sell our group life, disability, dental and vision products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. We continually adapt our products and pricing to meet local market
conditions. We market our fee-for-service capabilities to employers that self-insure their employees' dental, disability and vision benefits. We market our wellness and fee-for-service businesses in
all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

The
group insurance market continues to see a shift to voluntary/worksite products. In keeping with this market change, which shifts the funding of such products from the employer to the
employee, we have enhanced our focus on our voluntary benefits platform. We believe the voluntary/worksite market presents growth opportunities, and we will continue to develop strategies to
capitalize on this expanding market.

As
of December 31, 2011, we had 99 sales representatives and 107 service representatives in 31 offices. Our sales representatives accounted for 95% of our group insurance
sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. The group sales force plays a key role in the ongoing servicing of the case by providing local, responsive services to our customers and their
brokers, such as renewing contracts, revising plans and solving any administrative issues; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their
plans.

Corporate Segment

Our Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of
the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment
eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after-tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Results of our exited group medical
insurance business are reported in this segment. For further details, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Transactions Affecting Comparability."

Competition

Competition in our segments is based on a number of factors including: scale, service, product features, price, investment performance,
commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds,
broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, greater diversity of distribution sources, better brand recognition
or, with respect to insurers,
higher financial strength ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete or may have better investment performance at various times.

Competition
in the retirement services market is very fragmented. Our main competitors in this market include Fidelity, ING, Mass Mutual, Vanguard and John Hancock. We believe the
infrastructure and system support needed to meet the needs of the small and medium-sized business market is a significant barrier to entry for our competitors. Many of our competitors in the mutual
fund industry are larger, have been established for a longer period of time, offer less expensive products, have deeper penetration in key distribution channels and have more resources than we do.
There were over 7,500 mutual funds in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010, according to the Investment Company Institute 2011 Investment Company Fact Book. The institutional asset management
market has grown at a rapid pace over the last









decade.
Our primary competitors in this market are large institutional asset management firms, such as Black Rock, PIMCO, J.P. Morgan Chase, Morgan Stanley Investment Management and T. Rowe
Price, some of which offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known. The asset management business has relatively few barriers to entry and continually attracts new
entrants. The variable annuity market is also highly competitive. We face strong competition from Lincoln Financial Group and John Hancock. Competition in the international markets in which we operate
comes primarily from local financial services firms and other international companies operating on a stand-alone basis or in a partnership with local firms, including ING, AXA, Allianz and American
International Group, Inc. In the highly competitive U.S. insurance industry, our competitors include insurers such as Assurant, Guardian, UNUM, Lincoln Financial Group, MetLife, Sun Life,
Prudential and John Hancock. We believe we distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our:

•full service platform;•strong customer relationships;•focus on financial performance and•performance-oriented culture.

Ratings

Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Financial
strength ratings are generally defined as opinions as to an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Information about ratings provides both
industry participants and insurance consumers meaningful insights on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims.

Principal
Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company ("PNLIC") have been assigned the following insurer financial strength ratings:

Rating AgencyFinancial Strength RatingRating StructureA.M. Best Company, Inc.A+ ("Superior") with a stable outlookSecond highest of 16 rating levelsFitch Ratings Ltd.AA- ("Very Strong") with a stable outlookFourth highest of 21 rating levelsMoody's Investors ServiceAa3 ("Excellent") with a stable outlookFourth highest of 21 rating levelsStandard & Poor'sA ("Strong") with a positive outlookSixth highest of 21 rating levels

We
believe that our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, since ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally
used throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not
evaluations directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. For more
information on ratings, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings."

Regulation

Our businesses are subject to regulation and supervision by U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities as well as non-U.S.
regulatory authorities for our operations outside the U.S., which can have a
significant effect on our business. Our businesses are also affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws as well as tax laws for jurisdictions outside the U.S.

PFG,
our parent holding company, is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it is the holding company for all of
our operations, it is subject to regulation of our regulated entities, including as an insurance holding company and savings and loan holding company. We are subject to









legal
and regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, including public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance.

U.S. Insurance Regulation

We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. Principal Life and
PNLIC are domiciled in Iowa and their principal insurance regulatory authority is the Insurance Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa. Our other U.S. insurance companies are
principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to
register with the insurance department in the insurance company's state of domicile and to furnish financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company
system. Transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and at arm's length. Most states have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect
change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company and laws requiring prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing
business in that state.

Annually,
our U.S. insurance companies must submit an opinion from a board-appointed qualified actuary to state insurance regulators, where licensed, on whether the statutory assets held
backing statutory reserves are sufficient to meet contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be rendered noting the sufficiency of assets, then the
insurance company must set up additional statutory reserves drawing from available statutory surplus until such an opinion can be given.

State
insurance departments have broad administrative powers over the insurance business, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent licensing, establishment of reserve
requirements and solvency standards, premium rate regulation, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, policy form approval, unfair trade and claims practices regulation and other matters. State
insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies. See
Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further detail.

In
order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established risk-based capital standards. The standards require
life insurers to submit a report to state regulators on an annual basis regarding their risk-based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and
business risk. As of December 31, 2011, the statutory surplus of each of our U.S.
life insurance companies exceeded the minimum level of risk-based capital requirements required before state insurance departments would take action against an insurer.

State
and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or
investigations regarding our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws.

Each
state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover contractual benefit
obligations of insolvent insurance companies. The guaranty associations levy assessments on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by
such insurer in the lines of business in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit the member insurers to recover the assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
offsets.

Securities Regulation

Insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and some funding agreements that constitute
securities and mutual fund products are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority and other regulatory authorities. These regulations affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.

We
also have entities which are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act

As we provide products and services for U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act ("ERISA"). ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure requirements and standards of conduct.

Banking Regulation

We are a savings and loan holding company for Principal Bank, a federal savings bank, which is regulated by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. Principal Bank is also a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and subject to its regulations. With the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), we are now supervised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago ("Federal Reserve"). This oversight began in July 2011 and includes oversight of all
entities within the PFG family.









Environmental Regulation

As we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and could be subject to
environmental liabilities and costs associated with required remediation of our properties. We routinely have environmental assessments performed for real estate being acquired or used as collateral
for commercial mortgages we use for investment.

Regulation of International Businesses

Our international businesses are supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

Risk Management

Like all financial services companies, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in
Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Effective enterprise risk management is, therefore, a key component of our business model. Enterprise risk management helps us to:

•identify and manage those risks that present profitable growth opportunities, and avoid those that do not and•balance the sometimes competing demands of our various stakeholders, meet our customer obligations, satisfy regulatory
requirements and optimize shareholder returns relative to the risks we take.

We
use a variety of methods to help us identify, monitor, measure, communicate and manage our risks within established limits and risk tolerances.

Our
Board of Directors and senior management are knowledgeable of and accountable for key risks. Our Board meets at least quarterly and regularly hears reports from the Chief Executive
Officer, the business unit Presidents, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Investment Officer. The Board has several committees, which include the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the
Human Resources Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee that meet at least quarterly and address various aspects of risks. In addition, the Board of Directors and senior management
receive quarterly updates from the Chief Risk Officer.

We
also have several senior management groups and committees that meet on a regular and frequent basis to discuss various issues and risks associated with our businesses. These
committees encompass numerous functions such as discussing and setting business unit and company strategy, reviewing and approving potential uses of corporate capital and setting investment policy and
reviewing its implementation. Many key members of senior management serve on multiple committees, allowing them to provide oversight and take a holistic view of our key risks.

Our
enterprise risk management program is executed via a federated model. The Chief Risk Officer and supporting staff are independent of the business units, and work closely with the
business units, providing oversight and integration of all risk management activities. Each business unit has its own risk committee that in most cases includes executive level corporate management
and is responsible for identifying, monitoring, measuring and managing its risks, as well as monitoring how its risks impact the enterprise's overall risk exposure. The business units provide risk
reports to the Chief Risk Officer quarterly with current risk management information.

We
have established risk tolerances from an overall corporate perspective as well as for specific types of risks. All potentially significant actions are considered in terms of the
possible impact on our risk profile, including the capital required, the impact on near term and long-term earnings and the ability to meet our targets with respect to return on equity, liquidity,
debt/capital, cash coverage and other ratios and metrics. We monitor a variety of risk metrics on an ongoing basis and make any necessary adjustments to help us stay within our established risk
tolerances. We have developed a Business Continuity Management Program that identifies critical business functions and includes plans for their protection and recovery in the event of a disaster or
other business interruption. We continually monitor emerging risks, and we regularly build upon our already strong risk management practices to incorporate updated modeling tools, processes and
metrics, which we actively use to better understand and manage our business. We monitor three key risk metrics as part of our enterprise risk management
framework:

•Earnings at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in operating earnings and net income relative to baseline
operating earnings and net income under relatively adverse business and economic conditions.•Embedded Value at Risk, which is a measure of the potential volatility in embedded value relative to baseline embedded
value under relatively adverse business and economic conditions.•Internal Capital Adequacy Ratio, which represents the relationship of actual assets to our Economic Total Asset
Requirement ("ECTAR"). ECTAR signifies the total assets required to ensure that we can meet all of our obligations with a high degree of confidence and is the sum of Economic Reserves and Economic
Capital.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 13,527 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.









Internet Website

Our Internet website can be found at www.principal.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website, access to
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available free of
charge on our Internet website is our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and charters for the Audit, Finance, Human Resources and Nominating and Governance committees
of our Board of Directors. Also see Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance."

