Item 1.BUSINESS.

General

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We
are engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of biopharmaceutical products on a global basis.

Over the last few years, we executed our strategy to transform into a next generation biopharmaceutical company. This transformation encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this
strategy, we have divested our non-pharmaceutical businesses, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy known as the “string-of-pearls”, and executed our productivity transformation initiative (PTI). Our divestitures included
Medical Imaging in January 2008, ConvaTec in August 2008, and Mead Johnson in December 2009. Our acquisition and licensing transactions included Kosan Biosciences, Inc. in June 2008, Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in September 2009, ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics) in October 2010, Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) in September 2011, and Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex) in February 2012, as well as several license arrangements. We continue to review our cost structure with the intent to maintain a
modernized, efficient, and robust balance between building competitive advantages, securing innovative products and planning for the future.

We report financial and operating information in one segment—BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Business
Segment Information.”

We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and
generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture products in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico and in 6 foreign
countries.

U.S. net sales accounted for 65% of total net sales in 2011 and 2010 and 63% of total net sales in 2009 while net
sales in Europe accounted for 17%, 18% and 19% of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Net sales in Japan accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Net sales in Canada accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009.

Products

Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of products produced from
biological processes (typically involving recombinant DNA technology), called “biologics.” Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally, e.g., in the form of a pill or tablet, although other drug delivery mechanisms are used as
well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through injections or by infusion. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular; virology, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection;
oncology; neuroscience; immunoscience; and metabolics.

In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative
product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and other forms of regulatory
protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the U.S., the European Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and
marketed, there are often substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original innovative product. For further discussion of patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product
Exclusivity” below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business, see “—Generic Competition” below.

The following chart shows our key products together with the year in which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S.,
the EU, Japan and Canada. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. In
many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In
some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by
submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.

We estimate
the market exclusivity period for each of our products on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex
interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in
the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.






The following schedule presents net sales of our key products and estimated basic
exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU, Japanese and Canadian markets:



Net Sales by ProductsPast or Currently Estimated Year of Basic Exclusivity 
LossDollars in Millions201120102009U.S.EU(a)JapanCanadaKey ProductsPLAVIX*$7,087$6,666$6,14620122008(b)++2011AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*9521,1761,28320122007-2013++2011ELIQUIS—N/AN/A++2022++++ABILIFY*2,7582,5652,5922015(c)2014(d)++2017(e)REYATAZ1,5691,4791,40120172017-2019(f)20192017SUSTIVA Franchise1,4851,3681,2772013(g)2013(h)++2013BARACLUDE1,19693173420152011-201620162011ERBITUX*6916626832016(i)++2016(j)2016(j)SPRYCEL80357642120202020(k)20212020YERVOY360N/AN/A2023(j)2021(j)++++ORENCIA91773360220192017(j)2018(j)2014(l)NULOJIX3N/AN/A20232021++++ONGLYZA/KOMBIGLYZE4731582420212021++2021

Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any
statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been earned, but not those that have not yet been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension, for example. In
certain other instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position
for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Under the U.S. healthcare law enacted in 2010, qualifying biologic products will receive 12 years of data exclusivity before a biosimilar can enter the market, as described in
more detail in “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below.



*Indicates brand names of products which are trademarks not owned by Bristol-Myers Squibb or its subsidiaries. Specific trademark ownership
information can be found on page 116.

++We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.

(a)References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all 27 member states that were members of the European Union during the year ended
December 31, 2011. Basic patent applications have not been filed in all 27 current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. For those EU
countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.

(b)Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expiring in 2013,
which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete with PLAVIX* throughout the EU.

(c)Our rights to commercialize ABILIFY* (aripiprazole) in the U.S. terminate in 2015.

(d)Our rights to commercialize ABILIFY* in the EU terminate in 2014.

(e)Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.

(f)Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.

(g)Exclusivity period relates to the SUSTIVA brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. The composition of matter
patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014.

(h)Exclusivity period relates to the SUSTIVA brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. Market exclusivity for SUSTIVA
is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity for SUSTIVA expired in the EU in 2009.

(i)Biologic product approved under a Biologics License Application (BLA). Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that
specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active ingredient in ERBITUX*. Our rights to commercialize cetuximab terminate in 2018.

(j)Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.

(k)Pending patent application in most EU member states.

(l)Data exclusivity in Canada expires in 2014.






Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, product partner, if
any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU, Japan and Canada.





PLAVIX*PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate) is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or stroke in
patients with a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.



Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi, see “—Strategic
Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”



The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires on May 17, 2012 (including a pediatric extension).



In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, PLAVIX* benefits from national patents,
expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternative salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete throughout the EU.



We obtain our bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from Sanofi and a third-party. Both the Company and Sanofi finish the product in our own respective
facilities.



AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic
nephropathy.



Irbesartan was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”



The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires on March 30, 2012 (including a pediatric extension) and in most countries in the EU in 2012 to 2013. Data
exclusivity in the EU expired in August 2007 for AVAPRO* and in October 2008 for AVALIDE*. The composition of matter patent expired in Canada in March 2011.



Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and Sanofi. We manufacture our bulk requirements for irbesartan and finish AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in our facilities.
For AVALIDE*, we purchase bulk requirements for hydrochlorothiazide from a third-party.



ELIQUISELIQUIS (apixaban) is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, targeted at the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic
(VTE) disorders and stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. It is currently approved in the EU for use in VTE prevention in adult patients who have undergone elective hip or knee replacement surgery and is currently in the registrational process
in the U.S. and the E.U. for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation.Apixaban was discovered internally and is part of our alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). For more information about our alliance with
Pfizer, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.” The composition of matter patent covering apixaban in the U.S. expires in 2023 and in the EU it expires in 2022. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in
2021.We manufacture our bulk requirements
for apixaban and finish the product in our facilities.



ABILIFY*ABILIFY* (aripiprazole) is an atypical antipsychotic agent for adult patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.
ABILIFY* also has pediatric uses in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, among others.



We have a global commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the
Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and
Collaborations.”



The basic U.S. composition of matter patent for ABILIFY* and the term of the current ABILIFY* agreement expire in April 2015 (including the granted patent
term extension and six month pediatric extension). The basic composition of matter patent protecting aripiprazole is the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. Otsuka has sole rights to enforce this patent. For more information about this
litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”



A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and
Denmark. The original expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in all of the above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data exclusivity and the rights to commercialize in the EU expire in
2014. Data exclusivity in Canada expires in 2017.










We obtain our bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both the Company and Otsuka finish the product in our own respective
facilities.



REYATAZREYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV.



We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales. We are entitled to promote REYATAZ for use in combination with NORVIR* (ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with Abbott Laboratories (Abbott), as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net sales. We
recently entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing REYATAZ and one of Gilead’s compounds in development.



Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., Canada and the major EU member countries
and in 2019 in Japan. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities.



SUSTIVA FranchiseSUSTIVA (efavirenz) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The SUSTIVA Franchise includes SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral
drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapy ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen
combining our SUSTIVA and Gilead Sciences, Inc.’s (Gilead) TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). ATRIPLA* is the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy treatment product for HIV available in the U.S. in a
fixed-dose combination taken once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated together and help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. For more information about our arrangement with Gilead, see
“—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”



Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck & Co., Inc. for
a royalty based on a percentage of net sales.



The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014,
with a possible additional six month pediatric extension.



Market exclusivity for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity for SUSTIVA expired in the EU in 2009. We do not, but
another company does, market efavirenz in Japan. Certain ATRIPLA* patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. At this time, the U.S. patents covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged. The
EU patent for efavirenz is the subject of litigation in the Netherlands, Germany and the UK. For more information about these litigation matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies.”



We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We provide bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is
responsible for producing the finished ATRIPLA* product.



BARACLUDEBARACLUDE (entecavir) is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
infection. BARACLUDE was discovered and developed internally. It has also been approved and is marketed in over 50 countries outside of the U.S., including China, Japan and the EU.



We have a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2015. This patent is the subject of patent
litigation in the U.S. For more information about this litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”The composition of matter patent expires in the EU
between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan in 2016. The composition of matter patent expired in Canada in 2011. There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market.We manufacture our bulk requirements for entecavir and
finish the product in our facilities.








ERBITUX*ERBITUX* (cetuximab) is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed
on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells. ERBITUX*, a biological product, is approved for the treatment in combination with irinotecan for the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic
colorectal cancer (mCRC) who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA has also approved ERBITUX* for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Specifically, ERBITUX* was approved for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent
or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed. The FDA has also approved ERBITUX* for first-line recurrent locoregional or metastatic head and neck cancer in combination with
platinum-based chemotherapy with 5-Fluorouracil.



ERBITUX* is marketed in North America by us under an agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). We share copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October 2007 with ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan.
ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for use in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. For a description of our alliance with ImClone, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below
and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”



Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter
of cetuximab, the active molecule in ERBITUX*. ERBITUX* has been approved by the FDA and other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of ERBITUX* in combination with an anti-neoplastic agent is approved by the
FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2018 (including the granted patent term extension). The inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd.
(Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, Sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide litigation related to the use patent, Sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under the use patent. Data
exclusivity in Japan and Canada expire in 2016.Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda’s license of the patent to third parties could result in product
competition for ERBITUX* that might not otherwise occur. We are unable to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use
patent. Amgen received FDA approval to market an EGFR-product that competes with ERBITUX*.



We obtain our finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from Lilly. Lilly manufactures bulk requirements for cetuximab in its own
facilities and finishing is performed by a third-party for Lilly. For a description of our supply agreement with Lilly, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below.



SPRYCELSPRYCEL (dasatinib) is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for treatment of adults with all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance
or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC* (imatinib mesylate), and for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. In 2010, the FDA approved
SPRYCEL for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase.



SPRYCEL was internally discovered and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka. For more information about our
alliance with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S.
extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. Dasatinib is the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. For more information about this litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.” In the U.S., orphan drug exclusivity expires in 2013, which protects the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications only.In several EU countries, the patent is pending and upon
grant, would expire in April 2020 (excluding term extensions).We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and finish the product in our facilities.








YERVOYYERVOY (ipilimumab), a biological product, is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable
(inoperable) or metastatic melanoma. Ipilimumab was approved by the FDA in March 2011 and by the EMA in July 2011. It is currently also being studied for other indications including lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory
prostate cancer. For more information, about research and development of YERVOY, see “—Research and Development” below.YERVOY was discovered by Medarex and codeveloped by the Company and Medarex, which is now our subsidiary.We own a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of
matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S. and 2020 in the EU. Data exclusivity expires in 2023 in the U.S. and 2021 in the EU.We obtain bulk ipilimumab from a third-party manufacturer and finish the product at a third party facility.



ORENCIAORENCIA (abatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderate to
severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept is available in both an intravenous formulation and beginning in 2011, a subcutaneous formulation in the U.S.. ORENCIA was
discovered and developed internally.



We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. In the U.S., a patent term extension has been
granted for one of the composition of matter patents, extending the term of the U.S. patent to 2019. In the majority of the EU countries, we have a patent covering abatacept that expires in 2012. We have applied for supplementary protection
certificates and also pediatric extension of the supplementary protection certificates for protection until 2017. Some of these protection certificates have been granted.Data exclusivity in the U.S. and EU expires in
2017.We obtain bulk abatacept from a
third-party manufacturer and finish the product in our facilities for both formulations.



NULOJIXNULOJIX (belatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity for the
prevention of kidney transplant rejection. It was approved and launched in the U.S. in June 2011, and approved in the EU in June 2011 and launched in July 2011. Belatacept was internally discovered and developed.We own a patent covering belatacept as composition of
matter that expires in April 2023 in the U.S. and May 2021 in the EU.Data exclusivity expires in the U.S. in June 2023 and in the EU in June 2021.We manufacture our bulk requirements for belatacept and finish the products in our facilities.



ONGLYZA/ KOMBIGLYZE



ONGLYZA (saxagliptin), a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, is an oral compound indicated for the treatment of type 2
diabetes as an adjunct to diet and exercise.



KOMBIGLYZE (saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release) is approved in the U.S. as a combination product indicated as an
adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both saxagliptin and metformin is appropriate. KOMBOGLYZE (saxagliptin and metformin immediate-release) is approved in the EU as a
combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being treated with the
combination of saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. In this document unless specifically noted, we refer to both KOMBIGLYZE and KOMBOGLYZE as KOMBIGLYZE.



ONGLYZA was internally discovered by the Company and
KOMBIGLYZE was codeveloped by the Company and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca). We have a worldwide (except Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for saxagliptin. For more information about our arrangement with
AstraZeneca and with Otsuka for Japan, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”



We own a patent covering saxagliptin as composition of
matter that expires in March 2021 in the U.S. and the EU.



We manufacture our bulk requirements for saxagliptin in our facilities. We obtain the bulk metformin for KOMBIGLYZE from a third party. Both the
Company and AstraZeneca finish ONGLYZA in their own facilities. The Company finishes KOMBIGLYZE in its own facility.






Emerging Markets

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development
(R&D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major R&D facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey, and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also
carried out at various other facilities throughout the world, including in Belgium, the UK, India and other sites in the U.S. We supplement our internal drug discovery and development programs with alliances and collaborative agreements. These
agreements bring new products into the pipeline and help us remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. In drug development, we engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research
organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and
development activities.

We concentrate our biopharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas
with significant unmet medical need: affective (psychiatric) disorders, pain, Alzheimer’s/dementia, cardiovascular, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, oncology, immunologic disorders, solid organ transplant and fibrotic disease. We also continue to
analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that can provide
additional benefits to patients.

In order for a new drug to reach the market, industry practice and government regulations in
the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of a drug’s effectiveness and safety through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. The clinical development of a potential new drug includes Phase I,
Phase II and Phase III clinical trials that have been designed specifically to support a new drug application for a particular indication, assuming the trials are successful.

Phase I clinical trials involve a small number of healthy patients or patients suffering from the indicated disease to test for safety and proper dosing. Phase II clinical trials involve a larger patient
population to investigate side effects, efficacy, and optimal dosage of the drug candidate. Phase III clinical trials are conducted to confirm Phase II results in a significantly larger patient population over a longer term and to provide reliable
and conclusive data regarding the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate.

The R&D process typically takes thirteen years
or longer, with over three years often spent in Phase III, or late-stage, development. We consider our R&D programs in Phase III, or late-stage development, to be our significant R&D programs. These programs include both investigational
compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations.

Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and
safe enough to become an approved medicine. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. According to the KMR Group, based on industry success rates from
2006-2010, approximately 95% of the compounds that enter Phase I development fail to achieve regulatory approval. The failure rate for compounds that enter Phase II development is approximately 90% and for compounds that enter Phase III development,
it is approximately 54%.

Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical
development, early- and late-clinical development and drug formulation, as well as clinical trials and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. We spent $3.8 billion in
2011 and $3.6 billion in both 2010 and 2009 on research and development activities. Research and development spending includes payments under third-party collaborations and contracts. At the end of 2011, we employed approximately 8,000 people in
R&D activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.






We manage our R&D programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of
research and development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R&D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support the future growth
of the Company. Spending on our late-stage development programs represents approximately 30-40% of our annual R&D expenses. No individual investigational compound or marketed product represented 10% or more of our R&D expenses in any of the
last three years.

Listed below are several late-stage investigational compounds that we have in Phase III clinical trials for
at least one potential indication. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential
product’s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of these
compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues or
all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below includes only patent term extensions that have been granted.





BrivanibBrivanib is an oral small molecule dual kinase inhibitor that blocks both the VEGF receptor and the FGF receptor. It is currently in Phase III trials as an
anti-cancer treatment with potential use in hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer. We own a patent covering brivanib as composition of matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.



DapagliflozinDapagliflozin is an oral SGLT2 inhibitor for the potential treatment of diabetes. It is currently in the registrational process in both the EU and the U.S. It
was discovered internally and is part of our alliance with AstraZeneca. We own a patent covering dapagliflozin as composition of matter that expires in October 2020 in the U.S. In January 2012, we received a complete response letter regarding our
NDA for dapagliflozin. For further discussion see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Product and Pipeline Developments.”



Necitumumab (IMC-11F8)Necitumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and is part of the alliance
between the Company and Lilly. It is in Phase III trials in non small cell lung cancer. Lilly owns a patent covering necitumumab as composition of matter that expires in 2025 in the U.S.



ElotuzumabElotuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by PDL BioPharma and became part of the Facet
Biotech Corporation (Facet) spin-off. Facet was subsequently acquired by Abbott and is part of our alliance with Abbott. It is in Phase III trials in multiple myeloma. Abbott owns a patent covering elotuzumab as composition of matter that expires in
2026 in the U.S.



DaclatasvirDaclatasvir is an oral small molecule NS5A replication complex inhibitor in Phase III development for the treatment of hepatitis C virus. We own a patent
covering daclatasvir as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S.

The following table lists potential additional indications of key marketed products that are in Phase III
development or currently under regulatory review:



ELIQUISPotential indications for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and for VTE treatmentORENCIAPotential additional indication in lupus nephritis.SPRYCELPotential additional indication in prostate cancer.YERVOYPotential additional indications in adjuvant melanoma, prostate cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung
cancer.Potential additional indication in
first-line metastatic melanoma in the EU.ERBITUX*Potential additional indications in first-line colorectal cancer, first-line and second-line non-small cell lung cancer, and gastric cancer.ONGLYZAPotential additional use in cardiovascular risk reduction and pediatric extension.SUSTIVAPotential pediatric extension.BARACLUDEPotential pediatric extension.






The following key developments are currently expected to occur during 2012 with respect to
our significant pipeline programs. The outcome and timing of these expected developments are dependent upon a number of factors including, among other things, the availability of data, the outcome of certain clinical trials, acceptance of
presentations at certain medical meetings and/or actions by health authorities. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update this information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.



ELIQUISPotential U.S. and EU approval for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillationDapagliflozinPotential EU approval for treatment of type 2 diabetesData available from Phase III studies in patients with cardiovascular diseaseData available from Phase III study as an add-on to sitagliptinONGLYZAData available from Phase III study as an add-on to metformin and sulfonylureaNULOJIXFour-year data available from the Phase III studies and subpopulation analysesORENCIAData available from head-to-head study versus HUMIRA*Potential EU approval for subcutaneous formulationPhase III start in lupus nephritisPhase III start in psoriatic arthritisYERVOYSubmission of DTIC combination data in U.S. and EUIpilimumab plus vemurafenib safety/feasibility data availableBrivanibData available from Phase III study in advanced hepatocellular cancerERBITUX*Potential approval for first-line colorectal cancerSPRYCELThree-year data in first line CMLDaclatasvirData available from Phase II hepatitis C combination studies

Strategic Alliances and Collaborations

We enter into strategic alliances and collaborations with third parties, some of which give us rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by third parties
and some of which give third parties the rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by us. These alliances and collaborations can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and
comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements reduce the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to revenue-generating products; however,
profitability on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than profitability on our own products that are not partnered because profits from alliance products are shared with our alliance partners. While there can be no
assurance that new alliances will be formed, we actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery and development activities.

Each of our strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical
products contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party’s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of
notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a
material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an
involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). A number of alliance agreements also permit the collaborator or us to terminate without cause,
typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice and often exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the collaboration agreement is signed. Our strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise
contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short notice.

In general, we do not
retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by another party or to the other party’s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to a
strategic alliance arrangement could be material to our results of operations and cash flows, and, in the case of PLAVIX* or ABILIFY*, could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the
terms of our strategic alliances and arrangements generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis.






Our most significant current alliances and arrangements for both currently marketed products
and investigational compounds are described below.

Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed

SanofiWe have agreements with Sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and PLAVIX*.
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE*. PLAVIX* is copromoted in certain
countries outside the U.S. under the tradename PLAVIX* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename ISCOVER*.

The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries, referred to as Territory A, and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico,
Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as Territory B. Territory B is managed by two separate sets of agreements: one for PLAVIX* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and both products in Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and
Argentina and a separate set of agreements for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Within each territory, a territory partnership exists to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for
certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Countries within Territories A and B are structured so that our local affiliate and Sanofi’s local affiliate either comarket separate brands (i.e., each
affiliate operates independently and competes with the other by selling the same product under different trademarks), or copromote a single brand (i.e., the same product under the same trademark).

Within Territory A, the comarketing countries include Germany, Spain, Italy (irbesartan only), Greece and China (clopidogrel bisulfate
only). We sell ISCOVER* and KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE* and Sanofi sells PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in these countries, except China, where we retain the right to, but do not currently comarket ISCOVER*. The Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and
APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in France, the UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Portugal. In addition, the Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* in Austria, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong, and
APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in certain French export countries. In 2010 and prior, the Company and Sanofi also copromoted PLAVIX* in Singapore. Sanofi acts as the operating partner for Territory A and owns a 50.1% financial controlling interest in this
territory. Our ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. We account for the investment in partnership entities in Territory A under the equity method and recognize our share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates. Our share of net
income from these partnership entities before taxes was $298 million in 2011, $325 million in 2010 and $558 million in 2009.

Within Territory B, the Company and Sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The other
Territory B countries, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia (clopidogrel bisulfate only) and Argentina are comarketing countries. We act as the operating partner for Territory B and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this territory. As
such, we consolidate all partnership results in Territory B and recognize Sanofi’s share of the results as net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of taxes, which was $1,536 million in 2011, $1,394 million in 2010 and $1,159
million in 2009.

We recognized net sales in Territory B and Territory A comarketing countries of $8.0 billion in 2011, $7.8
billion in 2010 and $7.4 billion in 2009.

The territory partnerships are governed by a series of committees with enumerated
functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory has two senior committees which have final decision-making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities within their jurisdictions.

The agreements with Sanofi expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights relating to the products in the applicable territory.

The alliance arrangements may be terminated by Sanofi or us, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the
circumstances, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days;
(ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice;
(iii) deadlocks of one of the senior committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory; (iv) an increase in the combined cost of goods and royalty which exceeds a specified
percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating party that commercialization of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.






In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements include provisions for the
termination of the relevant alliance with respect to the applicable product in the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable territory. Each
of these termination procedures is slightly different; however, in all events, we could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable, in the relevant country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach
where we are not the defaulting party.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Sanofi, see “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

OtsukaWe maintain a worldwide commercialization
agreement with Otsuka to codevelop and copromote ABILIFY* (the ABILIFY* Agreement), excluding certain Asia Pacific countries. In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka agreed to extend the U.S. portion of the commercialization and manufacturing
agreement until the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. The contractual share of ABILIFY* net sales recognized by the Company pursuant to the extension was 65% in 2009, 58% in 2010 and 53.5% in 2011. Beginning on January 1,
2012, the contractual share of revenue recognized by the Company was further reduced to 51.5%.

In the UK, Germany, France and
Spain, the Company receives 65% of third-party net sales. In these countries and the U.S., third-party customers are invoiced by the Company on behalf of Otsuka and alliance revenue is recognized when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of
ownership have transferred to third party customers. We also have an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these countries we recognize 100% of the net sales.

Under the terms of the ABILIFY* Agreement, as amended, we purchase the product from Otsuka and perform finish manufacturing for sale by
us or Otsuka to third-party customers. Under the terms of the extension agreement, we paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the extension period. The unamortized balance is included in other assets. Otsuka
receives a royalty based on 1.5% of total U.S. net sales, which is included in cost of products sold. Otsuka is responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY* from 2010 through 2012. Reimbursements are netted
principally in marketing, selling and administrative and advertising and product promotion expenses.

The ABILIFY* Agreement
expires in April 2015 in the U.S. and in June 2014 in all EU countries. In each other country where we have the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country.

Beginning January 1, 2013, and through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015, we will receive the
following percentages of U.S. annual net sales:



Share as a % of U.S. NetSales$0 to $2.7 billion50%$2.7 billion to $3.2 billion20%$3.2 billion to $3.7 billion7%$3.7 billion to $4.0 billion2%$4.0 billion to $4.2 billion1%In excess of $4.2 billion20%

During this period, Otsuka will be responsible for 50% of all U.S. expenses related to the
commercialization of ABILIFY* in the U.S.

The U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement and the Oncology Agreement described
below include a change-of-control provision if we are acquired. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to ABILIFY*, then the new company will assume the ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) and the Oncology Agreement as it currently
exists. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with ABILIFY*, Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest ABILIFY* or the competing product. In the scenario where ABILIFY* is divested, Otsuka would be
obligated to acquire our rights under the ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) at a price according to a predetermined schedule. The agreements also provide that in the event of a generic competitor to ABILIFY*, we have the option of terminating the
ABILIFY* April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If we were to exercise such option then either (i) we would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the Oncology
Agreement would terminate at the same time or (ii) the Oncology Agreement would continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.

Early termination of the ABILIFY* Agreement is immediate upon notice in the case of (i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial
sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred (and not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90
days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed). In addition, termination is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that we were to challenge Otsuka’s patent rights or, on a
market-by-market basis, in the event that we were to market a product in direct competition with ABILIFY*. Upon termination or expiration of the ABILIFY* Agreement, we do not retain any rights to ABILIFY*.






We recognized net sales for ABILIFY* of $2.8 billion in 2011 and $2.6 billion in both 2010
and 2009. In addition to the $400 million extension payment in 2009, total upfront, milestone and other licensing payments made to Otsuka under the ABILIFY* Agreement through 2011 were $217 million.

For a discussion of our Oncology Agreement with Otsuka, see “—Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered”
below. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

LillyWe have an EGFR commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly’s subsidiary ImClone for the codevelopment and copromotion of ERBITUX* and necitumumab (IMC-11F8) in the U.S., Canada
and Japan. For more information on the agreement with respect to necitumumab, see “—Investigational Compounds Under Development—In-Licensed” below. Under the EGFR agreement, with respect to ERBITUX* sales in North America,
Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America, plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly, and the Company and Lilly share one half of the profits and losses evenly in Japan with Merck KgaA
receiving the other half of the profits and losses in Japan. The parties share royalties payable to third parties pursuant to a formula set forth in the commercialization agreement. We purchase all of our North American commercial requirements for
bulk ERBITUX* from Lilly. The agreement expires as to ERBITUX* in North America in September 2018.

Early termination is
available based on material breach and is effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from us if there exists a significant
concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety issue that would seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, we do not retain any rights to ERBITUX*.

We share codevelopment and copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under an agreement signed in October 2007, and
expiring in 2032, with Lilly, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for it to continue. ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July
2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.

We recognized net sales for ERBITUX* of $691
million in 2011, $662 million in 2010 and $683 million in 2009.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Lilly,
see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

GileadWe have a joint venture
with Gilead to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA* in the U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries, and both provide
funding and field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for ATRIPLA*. Gilead recognizes 100% of ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe. Our revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by
applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue to approximate revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. We recognized efavirenz revenues of $1,204 million in 2011, $1,053 million in 2010 and $869 million in 2009 related to ATRIPLA* net sales.

The joint venture between the Company and Gilead will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as
described below. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the markets where
it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of a party’s component product(s) appear on the market in the U.S., the other party will have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all of the rights to
the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net sales based on the contribution of bulk component(s) to ATRIPLA*, and otherwise retains all rights
to its own product(s).

In 2011, we entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose
combination containing REYATAZ* and Gilead’s cobicistat, a pharmacoenhancing or “boosting” agent currently in Phase III clinical trials that increases blood levels of certain HIV medicines to potentially allow for one pill once daily
dosing.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Gilead, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3.
Alliances and Collaborations.”

Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered

AstraZenecaIn January 2007, we entered into a worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with
AstraZeneca for ONGLYZA (the Saxagliptin Agreement). KOMBIGLYZE was codeveloped with AstraZeneca under the Saxagliptin Agreement. The exclusive rights to develop and sell ONGLYZA in Japan were licensed to Otsuka in December 2006, which is described
below under “—Investigational Compounds Under Development—Internally Discovered.” The Company and AstraZeneca are also parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for dapagliflozin, which is
described below under “—Investigational Compounds Under Development—Internally Discovered.”






We manufacture ONGLYZA and KOMBIGLYZE and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net
sales in most key markets. We received $300 million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments from AstraZeneca for meeting certain development and regulatory milestones on ONGLYZA and KOMBIGLYZE, including $50 million received in 2010 and
$150 million received in 2009, and could receive up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met. The majority of costs under the initial development plans were paid by AstraZeneca and additional development costs are
generally shared equally. We expense ONGLYZA and KOMBIGLYZE development costs, net of AstraZeneca’s share, in research and development. The two companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses
and profits and losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with
AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

OtsukaSimultaneously with the extension of the ABILIFY* Agreement, in April 2009, the Company and Otsuka entered into an Oncology Agreement for SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA, which includes the U.S., Japan and the EU markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in
2010 through 2020, the collaboration fees that we will pay to Otsuka annually are the following percentages of the aggregate net sales of SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in the Oncology Territory:



% of Net Sales2010 - 20122013 - 2020$0 to $400 million30%65%$400 million to $600 million5%12%$600 million to $800 million3%3%$800 million to $1.0 billion2%2%In excess of $1.0 billion1%1%

During these periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial
operational expenses relating to the oncology products in the Oncology Territory, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the Oncology Territory in excess of $175 million. Beginning in 2011, Otsuka
copromotes SPRYCEL in the U.S. and Japan and has exercised the right to copromote in the top five EU markets beginning in January 2012.

The Oncology Agreement expires with respect to SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in 2020 and includes the same change-of-control provision if we were acquired as the ABILIFY* Agreement described above.

For a discussion of our ABILFY* Agreement with Otsuka, see “—Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed”above. For
further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

PfizerThe Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for ELIQUIS, an anticoagulant discovered by us and being studied for the prevention and
treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions which is currently approved and marketed in the EU for VTE prevention. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs since January 2007 and we fund 40%. We have received $559
million in upfront, milestone and other licensing payments from Pfizer to date, including $20 million received in January 2012, and could receive up to an additional $325 million from Pfizer if all development and regulatory milestones are met. The
companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy of ELIQUIS, and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

Investigational Compounds Under Development—In-Licensed

LillyIn January 2010, the Company and Lilly restructured the EGFR commercialization agreement to provide for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human
antibody currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Product and Pipeline Developments” for an update on
one Phase III trial. As restructured, both companies will share in the cost of developing and will share in the profits and losses upon commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all
other markets. We will fund 55% of development costs for studies that will be used only in the U.S., 50% for Japan studies, and 27.5% for global studies. We will pay $250 million to Lilly as a milestone payment if first approval is granted in the
U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, we will recognize all sales and 55% of the profits and losses for necitumumab. Lilly will provide 50% of the selling effort and the parties will, in general, equally participate in other commercialization efforts. In
Japan, the Company and Lilly will share commercial costs and profits evenly. The agreement as it relates to necitumumab continues beyond patent expiration until both parties agree to terminate. Beginning in 2011, Lilly manufactures the bulk
requirements and we assume responsibility for fill/finish of necitumumab.






AbbottIn August 2008, we were granted exclusive rights from Facet Biotech
Corporation (now Abbott) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of elotuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as treatment for multiple myeloma. Under the terms of the agreement, we fund 80% of the development costs for
elotuzumab. Upon commercialization, Abbott will share 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S., and will be paid tiered royalties outside of the U.S. We will be solely responsible for commercialization of elotuzumab. In addition, Abbott
may receive milestone payments from us based on certain regulatory events and sales thresholds, if achieved.

Investigational Compounds
Under Development—Internally Discovered

AstraZenecaAs mentioned above, we have a worldwide codevelopment
and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for dapagliflozin (the SGLT2 Agreement). Dapagliflozin is being studied for the potential treatment of diabetes and was discovered by us.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances and Collaborations.”

OtsukaIn January 2007, we granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize ONGLYZA. We are entitled to
receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of ONGLYZA in Japan. We retained rights to copromote ONGLYZA with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development
costs in Japan.

Royalty and Other Licensing Arrangements

In addition to the strategic alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to
in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis for REYATAZ among others. Based on our current expectations with respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in our significant markets, the licensing arrangements with Novartis for REYATAZ are
expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S. and the EU and 2019 in Japan. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is
expected to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, see “—Products” above.

We own certain compounds
out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization, including those obtained as a result of our acquisitions of ZymoGenetics in October 2010 and Medarex in August 2009. We are entitled to receive milestone payments as these
compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on product sales, if and when the products are commercialized.

Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity

We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall
protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.

In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product’s market
exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to
exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s),






various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual
products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the
availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.

Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory
intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., the EU, Japan, Canada and certain other markets, regulatory intellectual property rights are
offered as incentives for research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term.

The U.S., EU, Japan and Canada also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the
regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy, or data protection. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be
of particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy
data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.

Specific aspects of the law governing
market exclusivity and data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:

United States

In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by
patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product’s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new
drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to
be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.

A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical
in the U.S. must submit a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a Biologics License Application
(BLA) is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights.

Chemical products

A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an abbreviated NDA (aNDA) with the
FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.

An innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known
as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an
aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to
file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where
warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.

In addition to benefiting from patent
protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. A NDA that is designated as an orphan drug can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs
nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of
the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity.

Medicines
approved under a NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for
approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator’s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an
active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation, but not for the drug itself, or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that
formulation or indication.






Biologic products

In the U.S., the increased likelihood of generic and biosimilar
challenges to innovators’ intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents covering major pharmaceutical
products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic and biosimilar drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. As a result of all of these
developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity.

European Union

Patents
on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis.

The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized
procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative
pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it
provides a recommendation to the European Commission (EC) and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure,” in
which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other
member states.

After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the
pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company
can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to complete.

Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after October/November 2005 are subject to an
“8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. If the
marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible extension to 11
years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. For products that were filed prior to
October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the member state).

In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of pharmaceutical products can be
approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its
product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.

In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic
biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.






Japan

In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies
can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.

In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
market exclusivity.

Canada

In Canada as of 2006, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable.
Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., Canada has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.

In Canada, biologics are generally treated the same as chemically-synthesized products with respect to patent rights and regulatory
exclusivity. Health Canada has issued draft guidance that outlines the additional information to be provided for Subsequent Entry Biologics, also known as biosimilar products or generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing
approval.

Rest of World

In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed
countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted
laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the
outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

We promote the appropriate use of our products directly to healthcare professionals and providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals,
Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and Managed Care Organizations (MCOs). We also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition,
we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.

Through our sales and marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses and risks and benefits of our products to medical
professionals. We work to gain access to health authorities, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans and reimbursement lists by providing information about the clinical
profile of our products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop scientific data and other information about our products and provide such information in
response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors, other medical professionals and managed care organizations.

Our operations
include several marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on
selling new products when they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and key primary care physicians.

Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest
pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our total gross sales were as follows:



201120102009McKesson Corporation26%24%25%Cardinal Health, Inc.21%21%20%AmerisourceBergen Corporation16%16%15%






Our U.S. business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our
direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allow us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels that are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs expire on December 31,
2012, subject to certain termination provisions.

In a number of defined markets outside of the U.S., we have established a
full scale distributor model to make medically necessary drugs available to patients. We continue to own the marketing authorization and trademarks for these products, but have contracted the services of a full-service distributor to provide
distribution and logistics; regulatory and pharmacovigilance; and sales, advertising and promotion for certain products. These contracts clearly define terms and conditions, along with the services we will provide (such as supply through a firm
order period). We monitor in-market sales and forecasts to ensure that reasonable inventory levels for all products for sale are maintained to fully and continuously meet the demand for the products within the distributor’s territory or
responsibility. Sales in these distributor-based markets represented less than 1% of the Company’s net sales in 2011.

Competition

The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with other worldwide
research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated
cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, customer service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product is safer or
more effective for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or by
similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.

Generic Competition

One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming
clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and
development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition
from generic forms of the product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time.

The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market
is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we have observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of sales decline
after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more
rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture.

In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic versions shortly after
we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation. For more information about market
exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.

We believe our long-term competitive
position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive
environment.

Managed Care Organizations

The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can include medical insurance
companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer,
larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us.

To successfully compete for business with
MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or products that
are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming






clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics
for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have
been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it.

Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included.
Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that
demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and
regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of
information, and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can
significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, our operations are subject to complex
Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to
require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.

Of
particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our activities and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing
surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S.

The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)
established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements
to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible
legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions
through labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.

The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to
withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil,
monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.

Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition,
modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process.

The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) as part of the FDC Act,
which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such
manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel
recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions.

The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the
FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety,
(3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television
advertisements.






We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory
and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce
controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and
injunctive or administrative remedies.

Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing
the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EMA has been obtained for a product,
approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from
country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.

In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments
have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government
regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and Germany, the government does not set pricing
restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany. Companies also face significant delays in market
access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional
cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to
significant parallel trade flows.

Both in the U.S. and internationally, the healthcare industry is subject to various
government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on our net sales. In March 2010, the U.S. government enacted healthcare reform legislation, signing into law the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and a reconciliation bill containing a package of changes to the healthcare bill. The legislation makes extensive changes to the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and
reduce costs. These bills significantly change how Americans receive healthcare coverage and how they pay for it. They also have a significant impact on companies, in particular those companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare
related industries, including BMS. We have experienced and will continue to experience additional financial costs and certain other changes to our business as the new healthcare law is implemented. For example, minimum rebates on our Medicaid drug
sales have increased from 15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans. In addition, we extend discounts to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and
other covered entities as required by the expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act.

In
2011, we were also required to provide a 50 percent discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the “donut hole” and we will pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the
federal government based on an allocation of our market share of branded prior year sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE.

In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, or under other regulatory
bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the UK, for instance, by the






operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price
system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products as more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines become available in some countries.

Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which they pay. We participate in state
government Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We also participate in government programs that
specify discounts to certain government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined “non-federal average
manufacturer price” for purchases. Other programs in which we participate provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain specified entities under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act.

For further discussion of these rebates and programs, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Net Sales” and “—Critical Accounting Policies.”

Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials

In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products in the open
market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain such raw materials and
supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, see “—Manufacturing and Quality
Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.

Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

To meet all expected product demand, we operate and manage our manufacturing network, including our third-party contract manufacturers,
and the inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product
to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and out-of-pocket expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing network,
consisting of internal and external resources that minimize unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, see “—Government Regulation and
Price Constraints” above.

Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Puerto Rico, France,
Italy, Ireland, Japan, Mexico and China and require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect
to continue modification of our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of
traditional pharmaceutical operations. In February 2007, we purchased an 89-acre site to locate our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Construction of the Devens, Massachusetts facility began in
early 2007 and was substantially completed in 2010. We submitted the site for regulatory approval in early 2012 and we expect the FDA to complete a review of our application by the end of the year.

We rely on third parties to manufacture or supply us with certain active ingredients necessary for us to manufacture various products,
including PLAVIX*, BARACLUDE, AVALIDE*, REYATAZ, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX*, the SUSTIVA Franchise, ORENCIA, YERVOY, ONGLYZA and KOMBIGLYZE. To maintain a stable supply of these products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and
maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an
additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available. For example, we will rely on the capacity of our Devens, Massachusetts facility and the capacity available at our third-party contract
manufacturers to manufacture ORENCIA.

If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely on for existing or future products
is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the complex processing requirements for biologics, our
business performance and prospects could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of manufacturing for
regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.

In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements under which we have agreed
to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the production of non-strategic
products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products.






Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products
and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning,
manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of technical information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various
stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these
along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.

Environmental Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and
human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls
and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.

Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for
compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $16 million in 2011, $15 million in 2010 and $34 million in 2009 on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental
requirements. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or
criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.

Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes
that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of
these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural
resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 14 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a “potentially responsible party” (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at
approximately 24 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.

We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault
or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is
expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 27,000 people.

Foreign Operations

We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.

For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 2. Business Segment Information” and for further discussion of our net sales by geographic area see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Net
Sales.”

International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad,
including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions.
Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.






Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values
can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. The change in foreign exchange rates had a net favorable impact on the growth rate of revenues in 2011. While we cannot predict with certainty future
changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on it, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 10. Financial Instruments.”

Bristol-Myers Squibb
Website

Our internet website address iswww.bms.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual,
quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of
Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board
Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the “Investors—Corporate Governance” caption and in print to any stockholder
upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website.
Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the “Investors—Stockholder Services” caption.

We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC
allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and 2011 Annual Report will be available on our website under the
“Investors—SEC Filings” caption on or about March 21, 2012.






