Item 1.BUSINESS.

General

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We are
engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products on a global basis.

Over the last few years, we executed our strategy to transform into a next generation biopharmaceutical company. This transformation encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this
strategy, we have divested our non-pharmaceutical businesses, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy known as the “string-of-pearls”, and executed our productivity transformation initiative (PTI). With respect to divestitures,
we sold our Medical Imaging business in January 2008, sold our ConvaTec business in August 2008, and divested the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) in December 2009. During the same period, we completed numerous acquisition and licensing
transactions, including the acquisitions of Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. in October 2007, Kosan Biosciences, Inc. in June 2008 and Medarex, Inc.(Medarex) in September 2009.

Complementing these divestitures and acquisitions, we executed a productivity transformation initiative to enhance our efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness, and to continue to improve our cost
base. As part of the PTI, we have reduced general and administrative operations by simplifying, standardizing and outsourcing certain processes and services, rationalized our mature brands portfolio, consolidated our global manufacturing network
while eliminating complexity and enhancing profitability, simplified our geographic footprint and implemented a more efficient go-to-market model. We are meeting our PTI targets and have implemented a culture of continuous improvement.

We report financial and operating information in one segment—BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments,
see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Business Segment Information.”

We compete with other worldwide
research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture
products in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico and in 8 foreign countries.

U.S. net sales accounted for 63%, 60% and 58%
of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, while net sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa accounted for 22% of total net sales in 2009 and 25% in 2008 and 2007. Net sales in Japan accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2009 and 2008
and 4% in 2007. Net sales in Canada accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Products

Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of biological products, or
“biologics” or large molecules. Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally in the form of a pill, although there are other drug delivery mechanisms that are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through
injections. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular; virology, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; oncology; neuroscience; immunoscience; and metabolics.

In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which
the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and other forms of regulatory protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the U.S., the European
Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original
innovative product. For further discussion of patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business,
see “—Generic Competition” below.

The chart below shows our key products together with the year in
which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not
provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims
the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of







the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to
obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.

We estimate the market exclusivity period for each of
our products on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms
of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be
limited to the estimate.

The following schedule presents net sales of our key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU,
Japanese and Canadian markets:



Net Sales by ProductsPast or Currently Estimated Year of Basic Exclusivity LossKey Products200920082007U.S.EU (a)JapanCanadaDollars in MillionsCardiovascularPLAVIX*$6,146$5,603$4,75520112008(b)++2012AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*1,2831,2901,20420122007-2013++2011VirologyREYATAZ1,4011,2921,12420172017(c)20172017SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue)1,2771,1499562013(d)2013(d)++2013BARACLUDE73454127520152011-201620162011OncologyERBITUX*6837496922018(e)++2009(l)2016SPRYCEL42131015820202020(f)++2020IXEMPRA109101152018++(g)++++NeuroscienceABILIFY*2,5922,1531,6602015(h)2014(i)++2017(m)ImmunoscienceORENCIA6024412312019(j)2017(k)++2012MetabolicsONGLYZA24——20212021++2021

Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been earned, but not those that have not yet been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an
additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension, for example. In certain other instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of
manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Note also that, for products filed under a Biologics License
Application (BLA) in the U.S., the year of exclusivity is listed as the year of patent expiration even though there is currently not a regulatory pathway for the approval of follow-on biologic products, as described in more detail in
“—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below.



*Indicates brand names of products which are registered trademarks not owned by us or our subsidiaries. Specific trademark ownership information can
be found on page 136.

++We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.

(a)References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all 27 member states that were members of the European Union during the year ended
December 31, 2009. Basic patent applications have not been filed in all 27 current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. In such
instances, the earliest and latest dates of basic exclusivity loss are listed. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.

(b)Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expiring in 2013,
which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete with PLAVIX* throughout the EU.

(c)Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.

(d)Exclusivity period relates to the SUSTIVA brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy.

(e)Our rights to commercialize cetuximab terminate in 2018. It is not possible to accurately assess the length of exclusivity. ERBITUX is a biologic
and in the U.S. there is currently no regulatory approval path for generic biologics, though this is expected to change in the future.

(f)Pending application. EU patent applications were not filed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.

(g)Although ixabepilone is not approved to be marketed in the EU, it is approved and marketed in Switzerland and the composition of matter patent is
expected to expire in 2018.

(h)Our rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the U.S. terminate in April 2015.

(i)Our rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the EU terminate in 2014. Patent protection in Romania and Denmark expired in 2009.

(j)Biologic product approved under a BLA. In the U.S., there is currently no regulatory approval path for generic biologics, though this is expected to
change in the future.

(k)Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2017.

(l)Data exclusivity in Japan expires in 2016.

(m)Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.







Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, product partner, if
any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU, Japan and Canada.

Cardiovascular





PLAVIX*Clopidogrel bisulfate is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or stroke in patients with
a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.



In 2009, the U.S. PLAVIX* label was updated with new warnings on the use of PRILOSEC* (omeprazole) and certain other drugs that could interfere with PLAVIX*
by reducing its effectiveness. The label was also updated to include warnings about the variability of response attributed to CYP 2C19 genetic polymorphisms. We are currently in discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) about
possible additional changes to the U.S. PLAVIX* label.



Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with sanofi-aventis (sanofi). For more information about our alliance with sanofi, see
“—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”



The composition of matter patent in the U.S. currently expires in November 2011 (not including a possible six month pediatric extension), and is the subject
of patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex and other generic companies, as well as in other less significant jurisdictions. For more information about these litigation matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings
and Contingencies.”



In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, PLAVIX* benefits from national patents,
expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member countries, however, there is no composition of matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate. PLAVIX* is subject to competition in many
markets of the EU from both generic clopidogrel bisulfate in those markets where there is no composition of matter patent and from alternative salt forms of clopidogrel over which we and sanofi hold no patent.



We obtain our bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from sanofi and a third-party. Both the Company and sanofi finish the product in our own facilities.



AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*Irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic
nephropathy.



Irbesartan was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with sanofi. For more information about our alliance with sanofi, see “—Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”



The basic composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires in 2012 (including a pediatric extension) and in most countries in the EU in 2012 to 2013. Data
exclusivity in the EU expired in August 2007 for AVAPRO* and in October 2008 for AVALIDE*.



Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and sanofi. We manufacture our bulk requirements for irbesartan and finish AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in our facilities.
For AVALIDE*, we purchase bulk requirements for hydrochlorothiazide from a third-party.



Virology



REYATAZAtazanavir sulfate is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. REYATAZ was launched in the U.S. in July 2003.



We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales. We are entitled to promote REYATAZ for use in combination with NORVIR* (ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with Abbott Laboratories, as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales.



Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the major EU member countries and Japan. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.
Two U.S. patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. For more information about this litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”



We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities.









SUSTIVA FranchiseEfavirenz, the active ingredient in SUSTIVA, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The SUSTIVA Franchise includes
SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapy ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single
tablet three-drug regimen combining our SUSTIVA and Gilead Sciences, Inc.’s (Gilead) TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). ATRIPLA* is the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy treatment product for HIV
available in the U.S. in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated together and help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. For more information about our arrangement with
Gilead, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”



Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck & Co., Inc. for
a royalty based on a percentage of net sales.



The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014,
with a possible six month pediatric extension.



Market exclusivity for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU; we do not, but another company does, market efavirenz in Japan. Certain
ATRIPLA* patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. At this time, our patents covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged. For more information about this litigation matter, see “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”



We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We provide bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is
responsible for producing the finished ATRIPLA* product.



BARACLUDEEntecavir is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the FDA in March 2005 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
infection. BARACLUDE was discovered and developed internally. It has also been approved and is marketed in over 50 countries outside of the U.S., including China, Japan and the EU.



We have a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2015. The composition of matter patent expires in the EU between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan
in 2016. There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity laws and, due to this uncertainty, it is possible that one or more companies in China could receive marketing authorization from China’s health authority at any time to produce and
market a generic form of entecavir in China.



We manufacture our bulk requirements for entecavir and finish the product in our facilities.



Oncology



ERBITUX*Cetuximab is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed on the
surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells. ERBITUX*, a biological product, is approved for the treatment in combination with irinotecan for patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC)
who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA has also approved ERBITUX* for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Specifically, ERBITUX* was
approved for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed.



In October 2008, the FDA accepted for filing a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for the first-line squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck and granted it a priority review status. The FDA has since requested interim data from an additional study to complete the review of this application. We continue to work with the FDA to provide the requested
information.









ERBITUX* is marketed in North America by us under an agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). We share copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October 2007 with ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan.
ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. For a description of our alliance with ImClone, see “—Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”



There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active molecule in ERBITUX*. ERBITUX* has been approved by the FDA and
other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of ERBITUX* in combination with an anti-neoplastic agent is approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2017. The
inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide
litigation related to the use patent, sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under the use patent. The settlement agreement did not change the distribution fee we pay to ImClone on ERBITUX* sales.



Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda’s license of the patent to third parties could result in product competition for ERBITUX*
that might not otherwise occur. We are unable to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use patent. Amgen received FDA
approval to market an EGFR-product that competes with ERBITUX*.



We obtain our finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from Lilly. Lilly manufactures bulk requirements for cetuximab in its own
facilities and finishing is performed by a third-party for Lilly. For a description of our supply agreement with Lilly, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below.



SPRYCELDasatinib is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for treatment of adults with all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or
intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC* (imatinib mesylate), and for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy.



A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S. extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. In
several EU countries, the patent is pending and upon grant, would expire in April 2020 (excluding term extensions). In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity protection expires in 2011, and Orphan Drug Exclusivity expires in 2013,
which protects the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications only.



Dasatinib was discovered and developed internally. In April 2009, we entered into an oncology collaboration agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
(Otsuka) covering SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA (ixabepilone). For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.”



We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and finish the product in our facilities.



IXEMPRAIxabepilone is a microtubule inhibitor belonging to a class of antineoplastic agents, the epothilones and their analogs. In 2007, the FDA approved ixabepilone
in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally-advanced breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline and a taxane, or whose cancer is taxane resistant and for whom further anthracycline
therapy is contraindicated, and in monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic or locally-advanced breast cancer in patients whose tumors are resistant or refractory to anthracyclines, taxanes and capecitabine. We withdrew the marketing
authorization application in the EU in March 2009.



The basic composition of matter patent protecting ixabepilone in the U.S. is due to expire in May 2018, and a patent term extension has been requested which,
upon grant, would extend the patent term until September 2020. In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity protection expires in 2012.









Ixabepilone was developed by us, but is subject to a license agreement with Helmholtz Zentrum fur Infektionsforschung GmbH (HZI), relating to epothilone
technologies for which we pay a royalty based on a percentage of net sales. In April 2009, we entered into an oncology collaboration agreement with Otsuka covering SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see
“—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”



We manufacture our bulk requirements for ixabepilone in our facilities including the manufacturing of the active ingredient. The drug product, which comprises
a pharmaceutical kit, is finished by Baxter Oncology GmbH.



Neuroscience



ABILIFY*Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic agent for patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.



We have a global commercialization agreement with Otsuka, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia,
Pakistan and Egypt. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.”



The basic U.S. composition of matter patent for ABILIFY* expires in April 2015 (including the granted patent term extension and six month pediatric
extension). The basic composition of matter patent protecting aripiprazole is the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. Otsuka has sole rights to enforce this patent. For more information about this litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”



A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the UK, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Denmark. The original
expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in all of the above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.



We obtain our bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both the Company and Otsuka finish the product in our own facilities.



Immunoscience



ORENCIAAbatacept, a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept was approved by the FDA in December 2005 and made commercially available in the U.S. in February 2006. ORENCIA was discovered and
developed internally.



We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. A patent term extension has been granted for one of the composition of matter patents,
extending the term of the patent to 2019. In the majority of the EU countries, we have a patent covering abatacept that expires in 2012. In a majority of these EU countries, we have applied for supplementary protection certificates, which would
extend the term of the patent if granted. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2017.



We obtain bulk abatacept from a third-party and from our manufacturing facilities. We finish the product in our facilities.







MetabolicsONGLYZASaxagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, is an oral compound indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes as an adjunct to diet and
exercise.ONGLYZA was discovered internally. We have a worldwide (except Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) for
saxagliptin. For more information about our arrangement with AstraZeneca and with Otsuka for Japan, see “—Strategic Alliances and Collaborations” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.”We own a patent covering saxagliptin as composition of matter that expires in 2021 in the U.S.We manufacture our bulk requirements for saxagliptin in our facilities including the manufacturing of the active ingredient. Both the Company and a
third-party finish the product in each of their own facilities.

Emerging Markets

We have refined our focus on emerging markets which represent significant opportunities for growth. Such markets are characterized by strong
economic development, a rising gross domestic product, a growing middle class and increasing wealth amongst the middle class as well as a demand for quality healthcare. Emerging markets may provide most of the growth opportunity in the
pharmaceuticals industry by the middle of the next decade. Our strategy to capitalize on this growth opportunity is an innovation-focused approach. With this approach, we will develop and commercialize select, innovative products in key high-growth
markets tailoring the approach to each market individually. We have identified five emerging markets on which to focus – Brazil, Russia, India, China and Turkey. The emerging public health interests of these countries best align with our
strategy as well as our current portfolio and pipeline. These countries have also been identified as having improving intellectual property protection. In order to capitalize on the growth opportunities in the emerging markets, we must balance
related risks as well as develop innovative pricing and access strategies to make products accessible to patients and provide a reasonable return on investment. These risks include intellectual property protection, currency volatility, reimbursement
issues, government stability and scale issues in these markets and are being addressed.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development (R&D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major
R&D facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey, Wallingford, Connecticut and Milpitas, California. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities in the U.S., Belgium, Canada, the UK
and India. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and development activities.

We spent $3.6 billion in 2009, $3.5 billion in 2008 and $3.2 billion in 2007 on research and development activities. Research and development spending includes payments under third-party collaborations
and contracts. At the end of 2009, we employed approximately 8,000 people in R&D activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.

We concentrate our biopharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical need:
affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer’s/dementia, cardiovascular (primarily atherosclerosis/thrombosis), diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. We also
continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that
can provide additional benefits to patients.

Our drug discovery program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements.
These agreements bring new products into the pipeline and help us remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. In drug development, we engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research
organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products.

Drug
development is time consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of
new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the U.S.







or the EU, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experiences are included in the product applications to the FDA or European Medicines Agency (EMA), respectively, for the required regulatory
approval.

On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to
be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 12 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product
candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval.

Listed below are several late-stage investigational compounds that
we have in Phase III clinical trials for at least one potential indication. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the
competitive landscape of the potential product’s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we will seek
regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine
all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below includes patent term extensions that have been granted but does not include
potential patent term extensions.





ApixabanApixaban, an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, is in Phase III clinical trials for the prevention of venous thromboembolic disorders, the treatment of acute coronary
syndrome and stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. In April 2007, we entered into a worldwide agreement with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of apixaban. We own a patent covering apixaban as composition of
matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.



BelataceptBelatacept, a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of solid organ transplant rejection. In
September 2009, the FDA accepted for filing and review our submission of a biologic license application for belatacept, and the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) goal for FDA action is May 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FDA announced that its
Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee plans to meet on March 1, 2010 to provide advice regarding this application. We own a patent covering belatacept as composition of matter that expires in 2022 in the U.S.



BrivanibBrivanib is an oral small molecule dual kinase inhibitor that blocks both the VEGF receptor and the FGF receptor. It is currently in Phase III trials as an
anti-cancer treatment with potential use in hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer. We own a patent covering brivanib as composition of matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.



DapagliflozinDapagliflozin is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes is currently in Phase III clinical trials. We have entered into an agreement with
AstraZeneca for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of dapagliflozin worldwide. We own a patent covering dapagliflozin as composition of matter that currently expires in October 2020 in the U.S.



IpilimumabIpilimumab, a biologic product, is a monoclonal antibody currently in Phase III development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. It is also being studied
for lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The compound was discovered by Medarex which is now our subsidiary. We
own a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S.



Necitumumab (11F8)Necitumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and is part of the alliance
between the Company and Lilly. It has been studied outside the U.S. in lung cancer and colorectal cancer and is in Phase III trials in non small cell lung cancer. Lilly owns a patent covering 11F8 as composition of matter that expires in 2025 in the
U.S.



XL-184XL-184 is an oral anticancer compound, which was discovered by and licensed from Exelixis and is in Phase III clinical trials for medullary thyroid cancer.
XL-184 targets three enzymes: MET, which encourages tumor cell survival and movement, VEGF2, which helps tumors develop new blood vessels, and RET, which is also involved in cell growth and migration and is found in many thyroid cancers. Exelixis
owns a patent covering XL-184 as composition of matter that expires in 2024, which is exclusively licensed to us.

We recently terminated our development program for tanespimycin, which was in Phase III trials for the potential treatment of multiple myeloma.







Strategic Alliances and Collaborations

We enter into strategic alliances and collaborations with third parties, some of which give us rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are
owned by third parties and some of which give third parties the rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by us. These alliances and collaborations can take many forms, including licensing
arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements reduce the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to
revenue-generating products; however, profitability on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than profitability on our own products that are not partnered because profits from alliance products are shared with our
alliance partners. While there can be no assurance that new alliances will be formed, we actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery and development activities.

Each of our strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical
products contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party’s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of
notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a
material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an
involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). A number of alliance agreements also permit the collaborator or us to terminate without cause,
typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice and often exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the collaboration agreement is signed. Our strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise
contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short notice.

In general, we do not
retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by another party or to the other party’s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to a
strategic alliance arrangement could be material to our results of operations and cash flows, and, in the case of PLAVIX* or ABILIFY*, could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the
terms of our strategic alliances and arrangements generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis.

Our most significant current alliances and arrangements for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are described below.

Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed

sanofiWe have agreements with sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and PLAVIX*. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the
tradename APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE*. PLAVIX* is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename PLAVIX* and comarketed in certain
countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename ISCOVER*.

The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two
geographic territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries, referred to as Territory A, and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as Territory B. Territory B is managed
by two separate sets of agreements: one for PLAVIX* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and both products in Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina and a separate set of agreements for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Within
each territory, a territory partnership exists to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Countries within
Territories A and B are structured so that our local affiliate and sanofi’s local affiliate either comarket separate brands (i.e., each affiliate operates independently and competes with the other by selling the same product under different
trademarks), or copromote a single brand (i.e., the same product under the same trademark).

Within Territory A, the
comarketing countries include Germany, Spain, Italy (irbesartan only), Greece and China (clopidogrel bisulfate only). We sell ISCOVER* and KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE* and sanofi sells PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in these countries, except China, where we
retain the right to, but do not currently comarket ISCOVER*. The Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in France, the UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Portugal. In addition, the Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* in
Austria, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong, and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in certain French export countries. Sanofi acts as the operating partner for Territory A and owns a 50.1% financial
controlling interest in this territory. Our ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. We account for the investment in partnership entities in Territory A under the equity method and recognize our







share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates. Our share of net income from these partnership entities before taxes was $558 million in 2009, $632 million in 2008 and $526 million in
2007.

Within Territory B, the Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico.
The other Territory B countries, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia (clopidogrel bisulfate only) and Argentina are comarketing countries. We act as the operating partner for Territory B and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this
territory. As such, we consolidate all partnership results in Territory B and recognize sanofi’s share of the results as net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of taxes, which was $1,159 million in 2009, $976 million in 2008
and $746 million in 2007.

We recognized net sales in Territory B and Territory A comarketing countries of $7.4 billion in
2009, $6.9 billion in 2008 and $6.0 billion in 2007.

The territory partnerships are governed by a series of committees with
enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory has two senior committees which have final decision-making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities within their
jurisdictions.

The agreements with sanofi expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights relating to the products in the applicable territory.

The alliance arrangements may be terminated by sanofi or us, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the
circumstances, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days;
(ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice;
(iii) deadlocks of one of the senior committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory; (iv) an increase in the combined cost of goods and royalty which exceeds a specified
percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating party that commercialization of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.

In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements include provisions for the termination of the relevant alliance with respect
to the applicable product in the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable territory. Each of these termination procedures is slightly
different; however, in all events, we could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable, in the relevant country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach where we are not the defaulting party.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with sanofi, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances
and Collaborations.”

OtsukaWe maintain a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to codevelop and
copromote ABILIFY* (the ABILIFY* Agreement), except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. We also have a collaboration agreement with Otsuka relating to certain oncology products
(the Oncology Agreement), which is more fully described under “—Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered” below.

Under the terms of the ABILIFY* Agreement, as amended, we purchase the product from Otsuka and perform finish manufacturing for sale by us or Otsuka to third-party customers. The ABILIFY* Agreement
expires in April 2015 in the U.S and in June 2014 in all EU countries. In each other country where we have the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country.

In the U.S., Germany, France and Spain, the product is invoiced to third-party customers by us on behalf of Otsuka and we
recognize alliance revenue for our contractual share of third-party net sales. In Germany, France and Spain, our contractual share is 65% of net sales and we recognize all expenses related to the product. In the U.S., our contractual share was 65%
of net sales in 2009 and will be 58% in 2010, under the terms of our agreement with Otsuka to extend the U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement described more fully below. We recognized all expenses related to the product in 2009, although in 2010
Otsuka is responsible for 30% of commercialization expenses related to the product in the U.S. In the UK and Italy, where we are presently the exclusive distributor for the product, we recognize 100% of the net sales and related cost of products
sold and expenses. We also have an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these countries we recognize 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.







In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka extended the U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement
until the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. Under the terms of the extension, we paid Otsuka $400 million. Beginning on January 1, 2010, the share of U.S. net sales that we recognize for ABILIFY* changed from 65% to the
following:



Share as a % of U.S. NetSales201058.0%201153.5%201251.5%

During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY* in the U.S.

Beginning January 1, 2013, and through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015, we will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales:



Share as a % of U.S. NetSales$0 to $2.7 billion50%$2.7 billion to $3.2 billion20%$3.2 billion to $3.7 billion7%$3.7 billion to $4.0 billion2%$4.0 billion to $4.2 billion1%In excess of $4.2 billion20%

During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 50% of all U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY* in the U.S.

The
U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement and the Oncology Agreement described below include a change-of-control provision if we are acquired. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to ABILIFY*, then the new company will assume the
ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) and the Oncology Agreement as it currently exists. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with ABILIFY*, Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest ABILIFY* or the
competing product. In the scenario where ABILIFY* is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire our rights under the ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) at a price according to a predetermined schedule. The agreements also provide that in the event
of a generic competitor to ABILIFY* after January 1, 2010, we have the option of terminating the ABILIFY* April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If we were to exercise such option then either
(i) we would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the Oncology Agreement would terminate at the same time or (ii) the Oncology Agreement would continue for a truncated period according to a
pre-determined schedule.

Early termination of the ABILIFY* Agreement is immediate upon notice in the case of
(i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred
(and not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed). In addition, termination
is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that we were to challenge Otsuka’s patent rights or, on a market-by-market basis, in the event that we were to market a product in direct competition with ABILIFY*. Upon termination or
expiration of the ABILIFY* Agreement, we do not retain any rights to ABILIFY*.

We recognized net sales for ABILIFY* of $2.6
billion in 2009, $2.2 billion in 2008 and $1.7 billion in 2007. In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total upfront licensing and milestone payments made to Otsuka under the ABILIFY* Agreement through 2009 were $217 million.

For a discussion of our Oncology Agreement with Otsuka, see “—Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered”
below. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

LillyWe have a commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly’s subsidiary ImClone covering ERBITUX* in the U.S. as well as rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is
commercialized in such countries. Under the agreement, covering North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America and the parties share profits evenly in Japan. The parties share royalties
payable to third parties pursuant to a formula set forth in the commercialization agreement. We purchase all of our commercial requirements for bulk ERBITUX* from Lilly at a price equal to Lilly’s manufacturing cost plus 10%. The agreement
expires as to ERBITUX* in North America in September 2018.

Early termination is available based on material breach and is
effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from us if there exists a







significant concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety issue that would seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, we do not
retain any rights to ERBITUX*.

We share codevelopment and copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under an
agreement signed in October 2007, and expiring in 2032, with Lilly, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for it to continue. ERBITUX* received
marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.

We recognized net sales for ERBITUX* of $683 million, $749 million and $692 million in, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

For further discussion of the our strategic alliance with Lilly, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

GileadWe have a joint venture with Gilead to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA* in the
U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries, and both provide funding and field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for ATRIPLA*. Gilead recognizes 100% of ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S., Canada and
most countries in Europe. Our revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue to approximate revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. We recognized efavirenz revenues of $869 million, $582 million and $335
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to ATRIPLA* net sales.

The joint venture between the Company and Gilead
will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both
desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the markets where it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of a party’s component product(s) appear on the market in the U.S., the other party will
have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all of the rights to the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net sales based
on the contribution of bulk component(s) to ATRIPLA*, and otherwise retains all rights to its own product(s).

For further
discussion of our strategic alliance with Gilead, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered

AstraZenecaIn January 2007, we entered
into a worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for ONGLYZA (the Saxagliptin Agreement). The Company and AstraZeneca are also parties to a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for
dapagliflozin, which is described below under “—Investigational Compounds Under Development—Internally Discovered.”

We manufacture ONGLYZA and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net sales in most key markets. We received $250 million in upfront licensing and milestone payments from AstraZeneca for meeting
certain development and regulatory milestones on ONGLYZA and could receive up to an additional $100 million if all remaining development and regulatory milestones under the Saxagliptin Agreement are met and up to an additional $300 million if all
sales-based milestones are met. The majority of costs under the initial development plans through 2008 were paid by AstraZeneca and additional development costs are generally shared equally. We expense ONGLYZA development costs, net of
AstraZeneca’s share, in research and development. The two companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.”







OtsukaSimultaneously with the extension of the ABILIFY* Agreement, in April 2009,
the Company and Otsuka entered into an Oncology Agreement for SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA, which includes the U.S., Japan and the EU markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in 2010 through 2020, the collaboration fees that we will pay to Otsuka annually
are the following percentages of the aggregate net sales of SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in the Oncology Territory:



% of Net Sales2010 - 20122013 - 2020$0 to $400 million30%65%$400 million to $600 million5%12%$600 million to $800 million3%3%$800 million to $1.0 billion2%2%In excess of $1.0 billion1%1%

During these
periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the oncology products in the Oncology Territory, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the
products in the Oncology Territory in excess of $175 million. Starting in 2011, Otsuka will have the right to copromote SPRYCEL with us in the U.S. and Japan and in 2012, in the top five EU markets.

The Oncology Agreement expires with respect to SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in 2020 and includes the same change-of-control provision if we were
acquired as the ABILIFY* Agreement described above.

For a discussion of our ABILFY* Agreement with Otsuka, see
“—Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed”above. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

Investigational Compounds Under Development—In-Licensed

ExelixisIn December 2008, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for XL-184 and a license for XL-281 with utility in RAS
and RAF mutant tumors under development by Exelixis. Under the terms of the arrangement, we paid Exelixis $195 million upon execution of the agreement and an additional $45 million in 2009. Exelixis will fund the first $100 million of development
for XL-184. If Exelixis elects to continue sharing development costs and elects to copromote in the U.S., Exelixis will fund 35% of future global development costs (excluding Japan) and share U.S. profits and losses equally; failing such elections,
Exelixis receives milestones and royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. We will fund 100% of development costs in Japan. In addition to royalties on non-U.S. net sales, we could pay up to $610 million if
all development and regulatory milestones are met on both compounds and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met on both compounds.

In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. In January 2007, the Company and Exelixis entered into an oncology
collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is pursing the development of three small molecule INDs for codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, we paid Exelixis $100 million of upfront licensing and milestone
payments to date. If Exelixis elects to fund development costs and copromote in the U.S., both parties will equally share development costs and profits. If Exelixis opts-out of the codevelopment and copromotion agreement, we will take over full
development and U.S. commercial rights, and, if successful, will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones up to $380 million and up to an additional $180 million of sales-based milestones, as well as royalties. Royalty percentage rates are
tiered based on net sales.

Since July 2001, we have held an equity interest in Exelixis, which at December 31, 2009
represented less than 1% of their outstanding shares.

ZymoGeneticsIn January 2009, the Company and ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics) entered into a global codevelopment arrangement in the U.S. for PEG-Interferon lambda, a novel type 3 interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C. Under the terms of the arrangement, we paid ZymoGenetics $200 million of upfront
licensing and milestone payments in 2009. ZymoGenetics will fund the first $100 million of global development for PEG-Interferon lambda after which ZymoGenetics will fund 20% of development costs in the U.S. and Europe and we will fund 80% of the
development costs in the U.S. and Europe and 100% of the development costs in the rest of the world. If ZymoGenetics elects to continue sharing development and commercialization costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will share 40% of U.S. profits and
losses and has an option to copromote in the U.S. Failing such election to fund development costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will receive royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. We will pay ZymoGenetics
royalties on all non-U.S. net sales. In addition, we could pay up to $335 million if all hepatitis C development and regulatory milestones are met; up to $287 million if development and regulatory milestones for other potential indications are met;
and up to an additional $285 million if all sales-based milestones are met.







For further discussion of our strategic alliance with ZymoGenetics, see “Item 8.
Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

LillyIn January 2010, the Company and Lilly
restructured the ERBITUX commercialization agreement to provide for the co-development and co-commercialization of necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. As restructured,
both companies will share in the cost of developing and will share in the profits and losses upon commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets. We will fund
55% of development costs for studies that will be used only in the U.S. and will fund 27.5% for global studies. We will pay $250 million to Lilly as a milestone payment if first approval is granted in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, we will
recognize sales and receive 55% of the profits for necitumumab. Lilly will provide 50% of the selling effort. In Japan, the Company and Lilly will share commercial costs and profits evenly. The agreement as it relates to necitumumab continues beyond
patent expiration until both parties agree to terminate. Lilly will manufacture the bulk requirements and we will finish the product.

AlderIn November 2009, the Company and Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alder) entered into a global agreement for the development and commercialization of ALD518, a novel biologic that has completed Phase IIa development for the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, Alder granted us worldwide exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ALD518 for all potential indications except cancer, for which Alder retains rights and has
granted us an option to codevelop and have exclusive rights to cocommercialize outside the United States. We paid Alder an $85 million upfront licensing payment in 2009, all of which was expensed as research and development. In addition, we could
pay up to $764 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, potential sales-based milestones which, under certain circumstances, may exceed $200 million, and royalties on net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based
on net sales. If we choose the option to pursue cancer indications then we could pay up to an additional $185 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, the aforementioned sales-based milestones and royalties on net sales.
Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales.

Investigational Compounds Under Development—Internally Discovered

AstraZenecaAs mentioned above, we have a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca
for dapagliflozin (the SGLT2 Agreement). Dapagliflozin is being studied for the potential treatment of diabetes and was discovered by us.

For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

PfizerThe Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for apixaban, an
anticoagulant discovered by us and being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs since January 2007 and we fund 40%. We have received $464
million in upfront licensing and milestone payments from Pfizer to date and could receive up to an additional $630 million from Pfizer if all development and regulatory milestones are met. The companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing
strategy of apixaban, and will share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.

For further
discussion of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.”

OtsukaIn January 2007, we granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize ONGLYZA. We are entitled to receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well
as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of







ONGLYZA in Japan. We retained rights to copromote ONGLYZA with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan.

Royalty and Other Licensing Arrangements

In addition to the strategic alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis for REYATAZ and with HZI
for IXEMPRA, among others. Based on our current expectations with respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in our significant markets, the licensing arrangements with Novartis for REYATAZ are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the EU and
Japan; and arrangements with HZI for IXEMPRA are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., and on the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in the EU and Japan. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing
net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, see “—Products” above.

As a result of our acquisition of Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in August 2009, we own certain compounds out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization. We expect to
receive milestone payments as these compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on product sales, if and when the products are commercialized.

Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity

We own or license a number
of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual
property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.

In the pharmaceutical industry,
the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property:
patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other
things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for
varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of
meaningful legal remedies in the country.

Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property
rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., the EU, Japan, Canada and certain other markets, regulatory intellectual property rights are offered as incentives for
research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term.

The U.S., EU, Japan and Canada also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory
agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy, or data protection. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be of
particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy
data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.

Specific aspects of the law governing
market exclusivity and data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:

United States

In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by
patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product’s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new
drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to
be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.







A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must submit a complete
set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory
exclusivity rights.

A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file
an abbreviated NDA (aNDA) with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously
filed by the innovator in its NDA. Currently, under U.S. law, there is no abbreviated path for regulatory approval of generic versions of biological products. However, various bills and draft legislation to change this have been introduced in
Congress and the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics.

An innovator company is required
to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However,
after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This
allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with
respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.

In addition to benefiting from patent protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. A NDA that is designated as an orphan drug
can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a
drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity.

Medicines approved under a NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is
entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator’s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file
its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in a NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the
basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that formulation or indication.

In the U.S., the
increased likelihood of generic challenges to innovators’ intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents
covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, Congress
and the FDA are actively considering ways to develop a regulatory mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required
for a full BLA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of
regulatory exclusivity.

European Union

Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are
granted on a country-by-country basis.

The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products
in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and
products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the EMA. After the EMA
evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the European Commission (EC) and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition
procedure,” in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of
some or all other member states.

After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and
reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while







the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and
sometimes years to complete.

Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after
October/November 2005 are subject to an “8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that
product with the health authorities. If the marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the
innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing
treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the
member state).

In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of
pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor
that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.

In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic
biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.

Japan

In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are
enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.

In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
market exclusivity.

Canada

In Canada as of 2006, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable.
Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., Canada has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.

In Canada, biologics are generally treated the same as chemically-synthesized products with respect to patent rights and regulatory
exclusivity. Health Canada has issued draft guidance that outlines the additional information to be provided for Subsequent Entry Biologics, also known as biosimilar products or generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing
approval.

Rest of World

In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed
countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted
laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the
outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

We promote our products in medical journals and directly to healthcare providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit
Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio and television







advertising. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of
pharmaceuticals, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.

Through our sales and marketing
organizations, we explain the approved uses and advantages of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access to health authorities, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including
Medicare Part D plans and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of our products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop
information about our products and provides such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals.

Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas
or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on selling new products when they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and key primary care physicians.

Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics,
government agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our total gross sales were as follows:



200920082007McKesson Corporation25%24%22%Cardinal Health, Inc.20%19%18%AmerisourceBergen Corporation15%14%13%

Our U.S.
business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allows us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels that
are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs have one-year terms, through December 31, 2010, subject to certain termination provisions.

Competition

The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with
other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated
cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product has greater safety
and/or efficacy profile for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or
by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.

Generic Competition

One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate
their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and development than research-based
pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the
product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time.

The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we
have recently observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also
historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of
medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture.







In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must
compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation.
For more information about market exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.

We
believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them
effectively in a highly competitive environment.

Managed Care Organizations

The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can
include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D formularies, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating
into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us.

To successfully compete for
business with MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or
products that are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that
focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many
cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it.

Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently,
pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects.
A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major
products included on MCO formularies.

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution,
post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required
governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In
addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the
introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our businesses and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling,
marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S.

The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established
by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure
product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible legal or
regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through
labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.







The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of
pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to
impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition
and results of operations and cash flows.

Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable
governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to
a lengthy application process.

The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act
(PDMA) as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide
pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes
extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions. For discussion
of recent settlement of certain investigations of drug pricing and sales and marketing activities, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the
FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety,
(3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television
advertisements.

We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and
enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce
controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and
injunctive or administrative remedies.

Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing
the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EMA has been obtained for a product,
approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from
country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.

In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have
placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government
regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and Germany, the government does not set pricing
restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany. Companies also face significant delays in
market access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available







on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has
imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows.

In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either
nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries
where we do business.

Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which
they pay. We participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We
also participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined
“non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases. Other prime vendor programs in which we participate provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and other hospitals meeting certain
criteria.

For further discussion of these rebates and programs, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Net Sales” and “—Critical Accounting Policies.”

Sources and
Availability of Raw Materials

In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our
products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain
such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, see
“—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.

Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

To meet all expected product demand, we operate and manage our manufacturing network, including our third-party contract
manufacturers, and the inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely
from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and out-of-pocket expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing
network, consisting of internal and external resources, that minimizes unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, see “—Government
Regulation and Price Constraints” above.

Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities require significant ongoing capital
investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect to modify our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards
that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. In February 2007, we purchased an 89-acre site to locate our large
scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Construction of the Devens, Massachusetts facility began in early 2007 and was substantially completed in 2009. We expect to submit the site for regulatory approval
in 2011, with commercial production of biologic compounds anticipated to begin later that year.

We rely on third parties to
manufacture or supply us with active ingredients necessary for us to manufacture certain products, including PLAVIX*, BARACLUDE, AVALIDE*, REYATAZ, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX*, the SUSTIVA Franchise, ORENCIA and ONGLYZA. To maintain a stable supply of these
products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or
both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available. For example, we will rely on the combined capacity of our Devens,
Massachusetts, Syracuse, New York, and Manati, Puerto Rico facilities, and the capacity available at our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture ORENCIA and the commercial quantities of our other investigational biologics compounds in
late-stage development should those compounds receive regulatory approval.

If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely
on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the heightened
processing requirements for biologics, our business performance and prospects could be







negatively impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of
manufacturing for regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.

In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements
under which we have agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the
production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products.

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a
total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of
technical information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for
ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements
and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor
existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.

Environmental Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental
protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination.
Pollution controls and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.

Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for
compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $34 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008 and 2007 on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental
requirements. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or
criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.

Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes
that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of
these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural
resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 14 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a “potentially responsible party” (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at
approximately 30 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.

We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault
or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is
expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see “Item 8. Financial
Statements—Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”







Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,000 people.

During
2009, we continued to implement our comprehensive cost reduction program that included work force reductions and the rationalization of facilities. Also during 2009, we split-off our Mead Johnson business, which employed approximately 6,000 people.

For further discussion about PTI and restructuring activities, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 4.
Restructuring.”

Foreign Operations

We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.

For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Business Segment Information” and for further discussion of our
net sales by geographic area see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Geographic Areas.”

International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation,
price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws
on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.

Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign
currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2009, the change in foreign exchange rates had a net unfavorable impact on the growth rate of revenues. While we cannot predict with
certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on it, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under “Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 22. Financial Instruments.”

Bristol-Myers Squibb Website

Our internet website address iswww.bms.com. On our website, we make
available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).

Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Standards of
Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee,
Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the “Investors—Corporate Governance”
caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the “Investors—Stockholder Services”
caption.

We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and 2009 Annual Report will be available on our
website under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption on or about March 23, 2010.







