Item 1.BUSINESS.





General



Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We are engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of biopharmaceutical products on a global basis.



We operate in one segment—BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note2. Business Segment Information.”



We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture products in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico and in six foreign countries.



The percentage of revenues by significant region were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,Dollars in Millions201320122011United States51%59%66%Europe24%21%18%Japan5%4%3%China4%3%2%Total Revenues16,38517,62121,244



Acquisitions and Divestitures



Since 2007, we have been transforming BMS into a leading-edge biopharmaceutical company focused exclusively on discovering, developing, and delivering innovative medicines that address serious unmet medical needs. This transformation encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this strategy, we have divested our diabetes and non-pharmaceutical businesses, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy, and executed our productivity transformation initiative (PTI). Our divestitures included our diabetes business in February 2014, Mead Johnson in December 2009, ConvaTec in August 2008 and Medical Imaging in January 2008. As part of our acquisition and licensing strategy, we acquired Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) in August 2012, Inhibitex, Inc. (Inhibitex) in February 2012, Amira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amira) in September 2011, ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics) in October 2010 and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in September 2009 and entered into several license and other collaboration arrangements. These transactions have allowed and continue to allow us to focus our resources behind our growth opportunities that drive the greatest long-term value. From a disease standpoint, we are focused on four core therapeutic areas: oncology, virology, immunology, and specialty cardiovascular disease.



Products



Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of products produced from biological processes (typically involving recombinant DNA technology), called “biologics.” Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally, e.g., in the form of a pill or tablet, although other drug delivery mechanisms are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through injections or by infusion. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: virology, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; oncology; neuroscience; metabolics; immunoscience; and cardiovascular.



In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and various forms of regulatory protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the U.S., the European Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original innovative product. For further discussion of patent










rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business, see “—Generic Competition” below.



The following chart shows our key products together with the year in which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and China. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country revenues are not significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan and China. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.



We estimate the market exclusivity period for each of our products for the purposes of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.

The following schedule presents revenues of our key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU, Japan and China:

Total Revenues by ProductPast or Currently Estimated Year of Basic Exclusivity LossDollars in Millions201320122011U.S.EU(a)JapanChinaKey ProductsVirologyBaraclude$1,527$1,388$1,1962014(b)2011-20162016--Reyataz1,5511,5211,56920172017-2019(c)20192017Sustiva Franchise1,6141,5271,4852015(d)2013(e)++++OncologyErbitux*6967026912016(f)++2016(g)++Sprycel1,2801,0198032020202020212020Yervoy9607063602023(g)2021(g)++++NeuroscienceAbilify*2,2892,8272,7582015(h)2014(i)++++Metabolics(m)Bydureon*29878N/A2025(j)2021(j)2020(g)++Byetta*400149N/A2016(k)2016(g)2018(g)++Forxiga/Xigduo23—N/A20202023++++Onglyza/Kombiglyze87770947320232021++2016ImmunoscienceNulojix2611320232021++++Orencia1,4441,17691720192017(g)2018(g)++CardiovascularAvapro*/Avalide*23150395220122007-2013++--Eliquis1462—202320222022++Plavix*2582,5477,08720122008(l)++++



Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension. In certain other instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Under the U.S. healthcare law enacted in 2010, qualifying biologic products will receive 12 years of data exclusivity before a biosimilar can enter the market, as described in more detail in “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” below.



*    Indicates brand names of products which are trademarks not owned or wholly owned by BMS. Specific trademark ownership information is included on page 123.

++    We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.

--    There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market.

(a)References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all member states of the European Union during the year ended December 31, 2013. Basic patent applications have not been filed in all current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances, the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.

(b)In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent coveringBaraclude (entecavir), which was scheduled to expire in 2015, including granted pediatric exclusivity. An appeal is pending and a decision is expected in 2014. We may face generic competition with this product beginning in 2014. The Company is prepared to take legal action in the event that Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva) chooses to launch its generic product prior to the resolution of the Company's appeal.

(c)Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014 and market exclusivity expires between 2017 and 2019.










(d)Exclusivity period relates to theSustivabrand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expired in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in September 2014. Pediatric exclusivity has been granted, which provides an additional six month period of exclusivity added to the term of the patents listed in the Orange Book.

(e)Exclusivity period relates to theSustiva(efavirenz) brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy. Market exclusivity forSustivaexpired in November 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity forSustivaexpired in the EU in 2009.

(f)Biologic product approved under a Biologics License Application (BLA). Data exclusivity in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active ingredient inErbitux*. Our rights to commercialize cetuximab terminate in 2018.

(g)Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.

(h)Our rights to commercializeAbilify*(aripiprazole) in the U.S. terminate in 2015.

(i)Our rights to commercializeAbilify*in the EU terminate in June 2014.

(j)Exclusivity period is based on formulation patents.

(k)Exclusivity period is based on method of use patent.

(l)Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expired in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. Generic and alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete withPlavix*throughout the EU.

(m)In February 2014, BMS sold to AstraZeneca PLC(AstraZeneca) the diabetes business of BMS which comprised our global alliance with them, including all rights and ownership toOnglyza/Kombiglyze,Forxiga/Xigduo,Bydureon*,Byetta*, andSymlin*.



Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, product partner, if any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU and Japan.



BaracludeBaraclude(entecavir) is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection.Baracludewas discovered and developed internally.

In February 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware invalidated the composition of matter patent coveringBaraclude, which was scheduled to expire in 2015. An appeal is pending and a decision is expected in 2014. We may face generic competition with this product beginning in 2014. In December 2013, the FDA granted pediatric exclusivity forBaraclude.In the event that the Company is successful in its appeal, the composition of matter patent including the pediatric extension will expire in August 2015. The Company is prepared to take legal action in the event that Teva chooses to launch its generic product prior to the resolution of the Company's appeal. For more information about this patent litigation matter, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

The composition of matter patent expires in the EU between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan in 2016. There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market.

Entecavir is manufactured by both the company and a third party. The product is then finished in our facilities.

ReyatazReyataz(atazanavir sulfate) is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).

We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net product sales. We are entitled to promoteReyatazfor use in combination withNorvir*(ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie), as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net product sales. We have a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containing atazanavir and one of Gilead’s compounds in development.

Market exclusivity forReyatazis expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S. and China and 2019 in the major EU member countries and Japan. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.

We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities.

Sustiva FranchiseSustiva(efavirenz) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. TheSustiva FranchiseincludesSustiva, an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapyAtripla*(efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining ourSustivaand Gilead’sTruvada*(emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). For more information about our arrangement with Gilead, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances”

Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck) for a royalty based on a percentage of revenues. Efavirenz is marketed by another company in Japan.

The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expired in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in September 2014, with an additional six month period of pediatric exclusivity added to the term of these patents.










Market exclusivity forSustivaexpired in November 2013 in countries in the EU. Data exclusivity forSustivaexpired in the EU in 2009. CertainAtripla*patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. At this time, the U.S. patents covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged.

We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We supply our third parties’ bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is responsible for producing the finishedAtripla*product.

Erbitux*Erbitux*(cetuximab) is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells.Erbitux*, a biological product, is approved in combination with irinotecan for the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA approvedErbitux*for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed. The FDA also approvedErbitux*for first-line recurrent locoregional or metastatic head and neck cancer in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy with 5-Fluorouracil.

Erbitux*is marketed in North America by us under an agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). We share copromotion rights toErbitux*with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October 2007 with ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Serono Japan.Erbitux*received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for use in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer and in December 2012 for head and neck cancer. For a description of our alliance with ImClone, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances”

Data exclusivity forErbitux*in the U.S. expires in 2016. There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active molecule inErbitux*.Erbitux*has been approved by the FDA and other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use ofErbitux*in combination with 5-Fluorouracil (an anti-neoplastic agent) is approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2018 (including the granted patent term extension). The inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, Sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide litigation related to the use patent, Sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under the use patent. Data exclusivity in Japan expires in 2016.

Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda’s license of the patent to third parties could result in product competition forErbitux*that might not otherwise occur. We are unable to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use patent. Amgen received FDA approval to market an EGFR-product that competes withErbitux*.

We obtain our finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from Lilly. Lilly manufactures bulk requirements for cetuximab in its own facilities and filling and finishing is performed by a third-party for which BMS has oversight responsibility. For a description of our supply agreement with Lilly, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below.

SprycelSprycel(dasatinib) is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the first-line treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, includingGleevec*(imatinib mesylate).

Sprycelwas internally discovered and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka. For more information about our alliance with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances”

A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S. extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. In 2013, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Apotex regarding a patent infringement suit covering the monohydrate form of dasatinib whereby Apotex can launch its generic dasatinib monohydrate aNDA product in September 2024, or earlier in certain circumstances. In the U.S., orphan drug exclusivity expired in 2013, which protected the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications only.

In the majority of the EU countries, we have a composition of matter patent covering dasatinib that expires in April 2020 (excluding potential term extensions). The composition of matter patent expires in 2021 in Japan and in 2020 in China.










We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and finish the product in our facilities.

YervoyYervoy(ipilimumab), a biological product, is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable (inoperable) or metastatic melanoma.Yervoywas approved in the U.S. in March 2011 and in the EU in July 2011. It is currently also being studied for other indications including lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory prostate cancer. For more information, about research and development ofYervoy, see “—Research and Development” below.

Yervoywas discovered by Medarex and codeveloped by the Company and Medarex, which is now our subsidiary. We own a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S. and 2020 in the EU (excluding potential patent term extensions). Data exclusivity expires in 2023 in the U.S. and 2021 in the EU.

We obtain bulk ipilimumab from a third-party manufacturer and finish the product in our facilities and at a third-party facility.

Abilify*Abilify*(aripiprazole) is an atypical antipsychotic agent for adult patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.Abilify*also has pediatric uses in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, among others.

We have a global commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), excluding Japan, China and certain other Asian countries. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”

The basic U.S. composition of matter patent covering aripiprazole and the term of the currentAbilify*agreement expire in April 2015 (including the granted patent term extension and six month pediatric extension).

A composition of matter patent is in force in major EU countries. The original expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in most EU countries. Data exclusivity and the rights to commercialize in the EU expire in June 2014.

We obtain our bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both the Company and Otsuka finish the product in their own respective facilities.

Bydureon*Bydureon*(exenatide extended-release for injectable suspension) is a once-weekly glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.Bydureon*was acquired from our Amylin acquisition in August 2012.Bydureon*was internally discovered by Amylin, a former wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Prior to the sale of our diabetes business in February 2014, we had a worldwide development and commercialization agreement with AstraZeneca forBydureon*. For more information about our arrangement with and the sale of our diabetes business to AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale.”

The formulation patents expire in 2025 in the U.S. and in 2021 in Europe. Data exclusivity expires in 2020 in Japan.

Prior to the sale of the diabetes business, we obtained the bulk requirements for exenatide from third parties and the microspheres manufacturing process required for the extended release formulation was performed by the Company. Following the sale of the diabetes business, AstraZeneca assumed all manufacturing and finishing responsibilities.

Byetta*Byetta*(exenatide) is a twice daily GLP-1 receptor agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.Byetta*was acquired from our Amylin acquisition in August 2012.Byetta*was internally discovered by Amylin, a former wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Prior to the sale of our diabetes business in February 2014, we had a worldwide development and commercialization agreement with AstraZeneca forByetta*. For more information about our arrangement with and the sale of our diabetes business to AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale.”

The method of use patent expires in 2016 in the U.S. Data exclusivity expires in 2016 in Europe and 2018 in Japan.

Prior to the sale of the diabetes business, we obtained the bulk requirements for exenatide from third parties. Manufacturing and finishing also took place in third-party facilities. Following the sale of the diabetes business, AstraZeneca assumed all manufacturing and finishing responsibilities.

ForxigaForxiga(dapagliflozin) is an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.Forxigais marketed asFarxigain the U.S. In this document unless specifically noted, we refer to bothForxigaandFarxigaasForxiga.










It was approved in the U.S. in January 2014 and in the EU in November 2012 for use in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycemic control as an adjunct to diet and exercise. For further discussion, See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Product and Pipeline Developments.”Forxigawas internally discovered. Prior to the sale of our diabetes business in February 2014, we had a worldwide development and commercialization agreement with AstraZeneca forForxiga. For more information about our arrangement with and the sale of our diabetes business to AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale.”

The composition of matter patent covering dapagliflozin expires in October 2020 in the U.S. and May 2023 in the EU.

Prior to the sale of the diabetes business, we manufactured the bulk requirements for dapagliflozin and finished the product in our own facilities. Following the sale of the diabetes business, BMS will continue to manufacture the bulk requirement and finish the product pursuant to a supply arrangement that was agreed upon in connection with the sale of the diabetes business to AstraZeneca.

Onglyza/KombiglyzeOnglyza(saxagliptin), a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, is an oral compound indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes as an adjunct to diet and exercise.

Kombiglyze(saxagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release) is approved in the U.S. as a combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both saxagliptin and metformin is appropriate.Komboglyze(saxagliptin and metformin immediate-release) is approved in the EU as a combination product indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being treated with the combination of saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. In this document unless specifically noted, we refer to bothKombiglyzeandKomboglyzeasKombiglyze.

Onglyzawas internally discovered by the Company andKombiglyzewas codeveloped by the Company and AstraZeneca. Prior to the sale of our diabetes business in February 2014, we had a worldwide (except Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for saxagliptin. For more information about our arrangement with and the sale of our diabetes business to AstraZeneca and for our arrangement with Otsuka for Japan, see “—Strategic Alliances” below, “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale.”

The composition of matter patent covering saxagliptin expires in July 2023 (including granted patent term extension) in the U.S. and expires in the EU in March 2021. In the EU, supplementary protection certificates have been granted forOnglyzain the majority of European countries which expire in October 2024. Supplementary protection certifications forKombiglyzehave been applied for and have been granted in France, Italy and Spain and the application is pending in a number of other European countries. Market exclusivity in China expires in 2016.

Following the sale of the diabetes business, BMS will continue to manufacture the bulk requirement and finish the product pursuant to a supply arrangement that was agreed upon in connection with the sale of the diabetes business to AstraZeneca.

NulojixNulojix(belatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity for the prevention of kidney transplant rejection. It was approved and launched in the U.S. in June 2011, and approved in the EU in June 2011 and launched in July 2011. Belatacept was internally discovered and developed.

We own a patent covering belatacept as composition of matter that expires in April 2023 in the U.S. and May 2021 in the EU. Data exclusivity expires in the U.S. in June 2023 and in the EU in June 2021.

We manufacture our bulk requirements for belatacept and finish the products in our facilities.

OrenciaOrencia(abatacept), a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept is available in both an intravenous formulation and beginning in 2011, a subcutaneous formulation in the U.S.Orenciawas discovered and developed internally and has since been approved in the EU and other regions.

We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. In the U.S., a patent term extension has been granted for one of the composition of matter patents, extending the term of the U.S. patent to 2019. In the EU, the composition of matter patent covering abatacept expired in 2012. In the majority of the EU countries,we have applied for supplementary protection certificates and also pediatric extension of the supplementary










protection certificates for protection until 2017. Most of these protection certificates have been granted. Data exclusivity expires in 2017 in the U.S. and the EU and 2018 in Japan.

Bulk abatacept is manufactured by both the Company and a third party. We finish both formulations of the product in our own facilities.

See "—Strategic Alliances" below for further discussion of our collaborations with Ono Pharmaceutical Co., LTD. (Ono) forOrenciain Japan.

Avapro*/Avalide*Avapro*/Avalide*(irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide) is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy. Irbesartan was codeveloped and jointly marketed with Sanofi until the end of 2012. In October 2012, BMS and Sanofi announced a restructuring of their alliance following the loss of exclusivity ofPlavix*andAvapro*/Avalide*in many major markets. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi and the restructuring of it, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”

The composition of matter patent expired in the U.S. in March 2012 and in most countries in the EU in 2012 and 2013. Data exclusivity in the EU expired in August 2007 forAvapro*and in October 2008 forAvalide*.

Both the Company and Sanofi manufacture bulk requirements for irbesartan and finishing is performed by Sanofi. With the alliance restructuring, BMS’s manufacturing obligations will phase out with Sanofi assuming all the Company’s manufacturing and supply obligations of irbesartan products at the end of 2015.

EliquisEliquis(apixaban) is an oral Factor Xa inhibitor targeted at stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. Apixaban was discovered internally and is part of our alliance with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). For more information about our alliance with Pfizer, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”

The composition of matter patent covering apixaban in the U.S. expires in February 2023 (excluding potential patent term extensions) and in the EU and expires in 2022. We have applied for supplementary protection certificates. Some of these supplementary protection certificates have been granted and expire in 2026. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2021.

Apixaban is manufactured by both the Company and a third party. The product is then finished in our facilities.

Plavix*Plavix*(clopidogrel bisulfate) is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or stroke in patients with a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome. Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with Sanofi. In October 2012, BMS and Sanofi announced a restructuring of their alliance following the loss of exclusivity ofPlavix*andAvapro*/Avalide*in many major markets. For more information about our alliance with Sanofi and the restructuring of it, see “—Strategic Alliances” below and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”

The composition of matter patent in the U.S. expired in May 2012. In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In Europe, national patents, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel, expired in 2013. Plavix faces generic competition globally.

We obtain our bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from Sanofi. Prior to January 1, 2013, both the Company and Sanofi finished the product in their own respective facilities. Effective January 1, 2013, the Company no longer finishes clopidogrel bisulfate in our facilities.





Research and Development



We invest heavily in research and development (R&D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major R&D facilities in New Jersey and Connecticut. Research and development is also carried out at various other facilities throughout the world, including in Belgium, the UK, India and other sites in the U.S. We supplement our internal drug discovery and development programs with alliances and collaborative agreements which help us bring new products into the pipeline. In drug development, we engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and development activities.



We concentrate our research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical needs: oncology, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), hepatitis, immunologic disorders, cardiovascular and fibrotic disease. We also continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients.












In order for a new drug to reach the market, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of a drug’s effectiveness and safety through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. The clinical development of a potential new drug includes Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials that have been designed specifically to support a new drug application for a particular indication, assuming the trials are successful.



Phase I clinical trials involve a small number of healthy volunteers or patients suffering from the indicated disease to test for safety and proper dosing. Phase II clinical trials involve a larger patient population to investigate side effects, efficacy, and optimal dosage of the drug candidate. Phase III clinical trials are conducted to confirm Phase II results in a significantly larger patient population over a longer term and to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate.



The R&D process typically takes fourteen years or longer, with approximately three years often spent in Phase III, or late-stage, development. We consider our R&D programs in Phase III to be our significant R&D programs. These programs include both investigational compounds in Phase III development for initial indications and marketed products that are in Phase III development for additional indications or formulations.



Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. According to the KMR Group, based on industry success rates from 2008-2012, approximately 95% of the compounds that enter Phase I development fail to achieve regulatory approval. The failure rate for compounds that enter Phase II development is approximately 88% and for compounds that enter Phase III development, it is approximately 49%.



Total research and development expenses include the costs of discovery research, preclinical development, early- and late-stage clinical development and drug formulation, as well as post-commercialization and medical support of marketed products, proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs, and other appropriate costs. Research and development spending was$3.7 billionin2013,$3.9 billionin2012and$3.8 billionin2011and includes payments under third-party collaborations and contracts. At the end of2013, we employed approximately 8,000 people in R&D activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.



We manage our R&D programs on a portfolio basis, investing resources in each stage of research and development from early discovery through late-stage development. We continually evaluate our portfolio of R&D assets to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support the future growth of the Company. Spending on our late-stage development programs represented approximately 30-45% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. No individual investigational compound or marketed product represented 10% or more of our R&D expenses in any of the last three years.












Listed below are several late-stage investigational compounds that we have in Phase III clinical trials or under regulatory review for at least one potential indication. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential product’s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below includes patent terms and patent term extensions that have been granted.





AsunaprevirAsunaprevir is an oral small molecule NS3 protease inhibitor in Phase III development (which commenced in 2012) for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection, and is currently in the registrational process in Japan. We own a patent covering asunaprevir as a composition of matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.



DaclatasvirDaclatasvir is an oral small molecule NS5A replication complex inhibitor in Phase III development (which commenced in 2011) for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection and is currently in the registrational process in Japan and the EU. We own a patent covering daclatasvir as a composition of matter that expires in 2028 in the U.S.



BMS-791325BMS-791325 is an oral small molecule non-nucleoside NS5B inhibitor in Phase III development (which commenced in 2013) for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection. We own a patent covering BMS-791235 as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S.



Peginterferon lambdaPeginterferon lambda is a novel type 3 interferon in Phase III development (which commenced in 2012) for hepatitis C virus infection. We own a patent covering peginterferon lambda as a composition of matter that expires in 2024 in the U.S.



ElotuzumabElotuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by PDL BioPharma and became part of the Facet Biotech Corporation (Facet) spin-off. Facet was subsequently acquired by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) and became part of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) following a spin-off from Abbott. Elotuzumab is part of our alliance with AbbVie. It is in Phase III trials (which commenced in 2011) in multiple myeloma. AbbVie owns a patent covering elotuzumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2026 in the U.S.



NivolumabNivolumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) on T and NKT cells. It is being investigated as an anticancer treatment. It is in Phase III trials (which commenced in 2012) in non-small-cell lung cancer, renal cell cancer and melanoma. We jointly own a patent with Ono covering nivolumab as a composition of matter that expires in 2027 in the U.S. The FDA has granted Fast Track designation for nivolumab in three tumor types: non-small-cell lung cancer, renal cell carcinomaand advanced melanoma.



In February 2014, BMS sold to AstraZeneca the diabetes business of BMS which comprised our global alliance with them, including all rights and ownership to metreleptin. Metreleptin is a protein in development for the treatment of lipodystrophy and is currently in the registrational process.



The following table lists potential additional indications and/or formulations of key marketed products that are in Phase III development or currently under regulatory review:

Key marketed productPotential indication and/or formulationBaracludePediatric extension (EU)ReyatazPediatric extensionFixed dose combination with cobicistat in additional formulationsErbitux*Additional indication in esophageal cancerYervoyAdditional indications in adjuvant melanoma, prostate cancer, non-small-cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancerAdditional indication in melanoma in combination with nivolumabOrenciaAdditional indications in lupus nephritis and psoriatic arthritisEliquisAdditional indication for VTE treatment and VTE prevention (U.S.)










The following key developments are currently expected to occur during2014with respect to our significant pipeline programs. The outcome and timing of these expected developments are dependent upon a number of factors including, among other things, the availability of data, the outcome of certain clinical trials, acceptance of presentations at certain medical meetings and/or actions by health authorities. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update this information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

AsunaprevirPotential approval in Japan for hepatitis C virus infectionPlanned submission in the U.S. for hepatitis C virus infectionDaclatasvirPotential approval in the EU and Japan for hepatitis C virus infectionPlanned submission in the U.S. for hepatitis C virus infectionNivolumabData available from clinical trialsPotential submission based on registrational trialsSprycelFive year data available in first line CMLYervoyData available from Phase III study in adjuvant melanomaEliquisPotential approval for VTE treatment and VTE prevention (U.S.)





Strategic Alliances



We enter into strategic alliances with third parties that transfer rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by other parties. These alliances include licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. When such alliances involve sharing research and development costs, the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to revenue-generating products is reduced. However, profitability on alliance products is generally lower because profits from alliance products are shared with our alliance partners. We actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery, development and commercialization activities.



Each of our strategic alliances with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party’s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). A number of alliance agreements also permit the alliance partner or us to terminate without cause, typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice and often exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the alliance agreement is signed. Our strategic alliances typically do not otherwise contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short notice.



In general, we do not retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by another party or to the other party’s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to a strategic alliance could be material to our results of operations and cash flows could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the terms of our strategic alliances generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis.



Our most significant current alliances for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are described below.



Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed



Otsuka



We maintain a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka to codevelop and copromoteAbilify*(theAbilify*Agreement), excluding certain Asian countries. The U.S. portion of the agreement was amended in 2009 and 2012 and expires upon the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. The agreement expires in all European Union (EU) countries in June 2014 and in each other non-U.S. country where we have the exclusive right to sellAbilify*, the agreement expires on the later of April 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country. Otsuka is the principal for third-party product sales in the U.S., United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, Italy and certain other European countries and BMS is the principal for third-party product sales when it is the exclusive distributor for or has an exclusive right to sellAbilify*which is in the remaining territories.












Alliance and other revenue is recognized for only BMS's share of total net sales to third party customers in these territories. In the U.S., BMS's contractual share was 51.5% in 2012 and 53.5% in 2011.  Beginning January 1, 2013, BMS’s contractual share changed to the percentages of total U.S. net product sales set forth in the table below. An assessment of BMS's expected annual contractual share is completed each quarterly reporting period and adjusted based upon reported U.S.Abilify*net sales at December 31, 2013. BMS's annual contractual share was34.0%in 2013. The alliance revenue recognized in any interim period or quarter does not exceed the amounts that are due under the contract.

Annual U.S. Net Product SalesBMS Share as a % of U.S. Net Product Sales$0 to $2.7 billion50%$2.7 billion to $3.2 billion20%$3.2 billion to $3.7 billion7%$3.7 billion to $4.0 billion2%$4.0 billion to $4.2 billion1%In excess of $4.2 billion20%



In the UK, Germany, France, Spain, Italy and certain other European countries where Otsuka is the principal, BMS's contractual share of third-party net product sales is 65%. In these countries and the U.S., alliance and other revenue is recognized whenAbilify*is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to third-party customers. BMS recognizes all of the net product sales in certain other countries where it is the exclusive distributor for the product or has an exclusive right to sellAbilify*.



Under the terms of theAbilify*Agreement, as amended, we purchase the active pharmaceutical ingredient for product from Otsuka and perform finish manufacturing for sale by us or Otsuka to third-party customers. Under the terms of the extension agreement, we paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of alliance and other revenues through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015. Otsuka receives a royalty based on 1.5% of total U.S. net product sales. Otsuka was responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization ofAbilify*from 2010 through 2012. Under the 2012 U.S. amendment, Otsuka assumed responsibility for providing and funding all sales force efforts effective January 2013. In consideration, BMS paid Otsuka $27 million in January 2013, and is responsible for funding certain operating expenses up to $82 million in 2013, $56 million in 2014 and $8 million in 2015. In the EU, Otsuka reimbursed BMS for the sales force effort it provided through March 31, 2013. Otsuka assumed responsibility for providing and funding sales force efforts in the EU effective April 2013.



TheAbilify*Agreement expires in April 2015 in the U.S. and in June 2014 in all EU countries. In each other country where we have the exclusive right to sellAbilify*, the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country.



The U.S. portion of theAbilify*Agreement and the Oncology Agreement described below include a change-of-control provision if we are acquired. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product toAbilify*, then the new company will assume theAbilify*Agreement (as amended) and the Oncology Agreement as it currently exists. If the acquiring company has a product that competes withAbilify*, Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divestAbilify*or the competing product. In the scenario whereAbilify*is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire our rights under theAbilify*Agreement (as amended) at a price according to a predetermined schedule. The agreements also provide that in the event of a generic competitor toAbilify*, we have the option of terminating theAbilify*April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If we were to exercise such option then either (i) we would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the Oncology Agreement would terminate at the same time or (ii) the Oncology Agreement would continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.



Early termination of theAbilify*Agreement is immediate upon notice in the case of (i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred (and not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed). In addition, termination is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that we were to challenge Otsuka’s patent rights or, on a market-by-market basis, in the event that we were to market a product in direct competition withAbilify*. Upon termination or expiration of theAbilify*Agreement, we do not retain any rights toAbilify*.



We recognized total revenues forAbilify*of$2.3 billionin2013and$2.8 billionin2012and2011.



For a discussion of our Oncology Agreement with Otsuka, see “—Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered” below. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”












Gilead



We have joint ventures with Gilead to develop and commercializeAtripla*in the U.S. and Canada and in Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for certain activities related to the commercialization ofAtripla*in the U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries. Gilead recognizes 100% ofAtripla*revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe. Alliance and other revenues recognized forAtripla*include only the bulk efavirenz component ofAtripla*which is calculated differently in the EU and the U.S. following the loss of exclusivity ofSustivain the EU in 2013. The alliance and other revenues are deferred and the related alliance receivable is not recognized untilAtripla*is sold to third-party customers. We recognized efavirenz alliance and other revenues of$1.4 billionin2013,$1.3 billionin2012and$1.2 billionin2011related toAtripla*net product sales.



The joint venture arrangement between the Company and Gilead in the U.S. will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the markets where it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of a party’s component product(s) appear on the market in the U.S., the other party will have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all of the rights to the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net product sales based on the contribution of bulk component(s) toAtripla*, and otherwise retains all rights to its own product(s).



In 2011, we entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination containingReyatazand Gilead’s cobicistat, a pharmacoenhancing or “boosting” agent currently in Phase III clinical trials that increases blood levels of certain HIV medicines to potentially allow for one pill once daily dosing. Cobicistat is currently in the registrational process with the FDA.



For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Gilead, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”



Lilly



We have an EGFR commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly’s subsidiary ImClone for the codevelopment and copromotion ofErbitux*in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Under the EGFR agreement, with respect toErbitux*net product sales in North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net product in North America, plus reimbursement of certain royalties paid by Lilly, and the Company and Lilly share one half of the profits and losses evenly in Japan with Merck KgaA receiving the other half of the profits and losses in Japan. The parties share royalties payable to third parties pursuant to a formula set forth in the commercialization agreement. We purchase all of our North American commercial requirements for bulkErbitux*from Lilly. The agreement expires as toErbitux*in North America in September 2018.



Early termination is available based on material breach and is effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from us if there exists a significant concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety issue that would seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, we do not retain any rights toErbitux*in North America.



We share codevelopment and copromotion rights toErbitux*with Merck KGaA in Japan under an agreement signed in October 2007, and expiring in 2032, with Lilly, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for it to continue.Erbitux*received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use ofErbitux*in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer in December 2012.



We recognized net product sales forErbitux*of$696 millionin2013,$702 millionin2012and$691 millionin2011.



For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Lilly, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”



Sanofi



In September 2012, BMS and Sanofi restructured the terms of the codevelopment and cocommercialization agreements discussed below. Effective January 1, 2013, Sanofi assumed essentially all of the worldwide operations of the alliance with the exception ofPlavix*in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The alliance forPlavix*in these two markets will continue unchanged through December 2019 under the same terms as in the original alliance arrangements described below. In exchange for the rights being assumed by Sanofi, BMS will receive quarterly royalties from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2018 and a terminal payment from Sanofi of $200 million at the end of 2018.



Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement, the Company returned to Sanofi its rights for clopidogrel and irbesartan in all markets with the exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, where the Company continues to act as the operating partner and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest. All existing local arrangements in Territory A and Territory B (with the exception of clopidogrel in the U.S. and Puerto Rico), were terminated by mutual agreement. No products will continue to be sold through such local country entities










in these territories. In addition, Sanofi assumed all marketing authorizations for the products, to the extent currently held by the Company or any of its affiliates. As a result, Sanofi assumed control of all activities relating to the distribution, commercialization and medical affairs of clopidogrel and irbesartan in these regions.



Pursuant to the Master Restructuring Agreement and related alliance agreements, Sanofi will assume the Company’s manufacturing and supply obligations of irbesartan products at the end of 2015. The Company does not manufacture bulk clopidogrel and no longer finishes clopidogrel products in its facilities. The Company will retain rights to the intellectual property developed by the alliance necessary to fulfill its continuing obligations under the alliance arrangements.



We had agreements with Sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization ofAvapro*/Avalide*andPlavix*.Avapro*/Avalide*is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradenameAprovel*/Coaprovel*and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradenameKarvea*/Karvezide*.Plavix*was copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradenamePlavix*and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradenameIscover*.



Prior to 2013, the worldwide alliance operated under the framework of two geographic territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries, referred to as Territory A, and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as Territory B.  Sanofi acted as the operating partner for Territory A and owned a 50.1% financial controlling interest in Territory A and our ownership interest in this territory was 49.9%. In Territory B, we acted as the operating partner and owned a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this territory and consolidated all partnership results in Territory B. Territory B was managed by two separate sets of agreements: one forPlavix*in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and both products in Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina and a separate set of agreements forAvapro*/Avalide*in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Within each territory, a territory partnership existed to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Countries within Territories A and B were structured so that our local affiliate and Sanofi’s local affiliate either comarket separate brands (i.e., each affiliate operated independently and competed with the other by selling the same product under different trademarks), or copromoted a single brand (i.e., the same product under the same trademark).



Beginning in 2013, all royalties received from Sanofi in Territory B, opt-out markets, and former development royalties are presented in total revenues. We recognized total revenues in Territory B and Territory A comarketing countries of$0.5 billionin2013, $3.1 billion in2012and $8.0 billion in2011.



The alliance may be terminated by Sanofi or us, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days and (ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice.



For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Sanofi, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”



Current Marketed Products—Internally Discovered



Otsuka



Simultaneously with the extension of theAbilify*Agreement, in April 2009, the Company and Otsuka entered into an Oncology Agreement forSprycelandIxempra(ixabepilone), which includes the U.S., Japan and the EU markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in 2010 through 2020, a fee is paid to Otsuka annually based on the following percentages of the annual net product sales ofSprycelandIxempra:

% of Net Product Sales2010 - 20122013 - 2020$0 to $400 million30%65%$400 million to $600 million5%12%$600 million to $800 million3%3%$800 million to $1.0 billion2%2%In excess of $1.0 billion1%1%



During these annual periods, Otsuka contributes 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the Oncology Products in the Oncology Territory and 1% of such costs in excess of $175 million. Beginning in 2011, Otsuka copromotesSprycelin the U.S. and Japan and beginning in 2012, also copromotes in the top five EU markets.



The Oncology Agreement expires with respect toSprycelandIxemprain 2020 and includes the same change-of-control provision if we were acquired as theAbilify*Agreement described above.












For a discussion of ourAbilify*Agreement with Otsuka, see “—Current Marketed Products—In-Licensed”above. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances.”



In addition, in January 2007, we granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercializeOnglyza. Under that agreement, we are entitled to receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory approval ofOnglyzain Japan, and we retained rights to copromoteOnglyzawith Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan. In June 2012, Otsuka assigned all rights toOnglyza, with the exception of specific transition services, to Kyowa Hakko Kirin (KHK). As part of its consent to this assignment, BMS waived its rights to co-promoteOnglyzain Japan. BMS will supply finished saxagliptin to KHK.



In February 2014, we sold to AstraZeneca our diabetes business that was comprised of the global alliance with them, including all rights and ownership toOnglyza. See“Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale” for further discussion.



AstraZeneca



In January 2007, we entered into a worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca forOnglyza(the Saxagliptin Agreement) andForxiga(the SGLT2 Agreement). In 2012, BMS and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca, entered into an alliance regarding the worldwide development and commercialization of Amylin’s portfolio of products, includingBydureon*,Byetta*,Symlin*.Kombiglyzewas codeveloped with AstraZeneca under the Saxagliptin Agreement. The exclusive rights to develop and sellOnglyzain Japan were licensed to Otsuka in December 2006 and in June 2012 were assigned by Otsuka to KHK, which is described above.



In February 2014, we sold to AstraZeneca our diabetes business that was comprised of the global alliance with them, including all rights and ownership toOnglyza,Forxiga,Bydureon*,Byetta*,Symlin*and metreleptin. See“—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale” for further information.  We and AstraZeneca terminated our existing alliance agreements in connection with the sale and entered into several new agreements, including a transitional services agreement, a supply agreement and a development agreement. Under the supply agreement, we will continue to manufactureOnglyza, KombiglyzeandForxiga.



For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” and “Investigational Compounds Under Development – Internally Discovered."



Pfizer



The Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement forEliquis, an anticoagulant discovered by us for the prevention and treatment of atrial fibrillation and venous thromboembolic (VTE) disorders. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. We have received$784 millionin upfront, milestone and other licensing payments from Pfizer to date, including$20 millionreceived in January 2014 and could receive up to an additional$100 millionfrom Pfizer if all development and regulatory milestones are met. The companies share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.



For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3. Alliances.”



Investigational Compounds Under Development—In-Licensed



AbbVie



In August 2008, we were granted exclusive rights from Facet Biotech Corporation (now AbbVie) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of elotuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody being investigated as treatment for multiple myeloma. Under the terms of the agreement, we fund 80% of the development costs for elotuzumab. Upon commercialization, AbbVie will share 30% of all profits and losses in the U.S., and will be paid tiered royalties outside of the U.S. We will be solely responsible for commercialization of elotuzumab. In addition, AbbVie may receive milestone payments from us based on certain regulatory events and sales thresholds, if achieved.



Investigational Compounds Under Development—Internally Discovered



Ono



In September 2011, BMS and Ono entered into an alliance agreement (the “2011 Alliance Agreement”) for nivolumab, an anti-PD-1 human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anti-cancer treatment, which is also subject to a alliance agreement (the “2006 Alliance Agreement”) entered into in 2006 by Ono and Medarex, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  Under the 2006 Alliance Agreement and the 2011 Alliance Agreement, Ono granted BMS the exclusive right to develop, commercialize and manufacture










any product containing nivolumab in all countries of the world except Japan, Korea and Taiwan (where Ono remains responsible for all development and commercialization).  Ono is entitled to receive certain sales-based royalties following regulatory approvals in all territories excluding these three countries.  In connection with the 2011 Alliance Agreement, BMS also entered into an alliance with Ono whereby we granted certain commercialization rights to Ono and Ono shares in the expenses, profits and losses for Orencia in Japan.



Other Alliances



In February 2013, BMS and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (Reckitt) entered into a three year alliance regarding several over-the-counter-products sold primarily in Mexico and Brazil. Reckitt received the right to sell, distribute and market the products through May 2016 and will have certain responsibilities related to regulatory matters in the covered territory. BMS will receive royalties on net product sales and will also exclusively supply certain of the products to Reckitt pursuant to a supply agreement at cost plus a markup. Certain limited assets, including the market authorizations and certain employees directly attributed to the business, were transferred to Reckitt at the start of the alliance period. BMS retained ownership of all other assets related to the business including the trademarks covering the products.



BMS also granted Reckitt an option to acquire the trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related to the products at the end of the alliance at a price determined based on a multiple of net product sales (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at the time). If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to Reckitt will revert back to BMS. The option may be exercised by Reckitt between May and November 2015, in which case closing would be expected to occur in May 2016. Non-refundable upfront alliance proceeds of $485 million received by BMS were allocated to the rights transferred to Reckitt ($376 million) and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets ($109 million). Please see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” for more information regarding the alliance.



In February 2013, BMS and The Medicines Company entered into a two year alliance regardingRecothrom, a recombinant thrombin for use as a topical hemostat to control non-arterial bleeding during surgical procedures (previously acquired by BMS in connection with its acquisition of ZymoGenetics, Inc. in 2010). The Medicines Company received the right to sell, distribute and marketRecothromon a global basis for two years, and will have certain responsibilities related to regulatory matters in the covered territory. BMS will exclusively supplyRecothromto The Medicines Company pursuant to a supply agreement at cost plus a markup and will also receive royalties on  net product sales ofRecothrom. Certain employees directly attributed to the business and certain assets were transferred to The Medicines Company at the start of the alliance period, including theRecothromBLA and related regulatory assets. BMS retained all other assets related toRecothromincluding the patents, trademarks and inventory.



BMS also granted The Medicines Company an option to acquire the patents, trademarks, inventory and certain other assets exclusively related toRecothromat a price determined based on a multiple of revenues (plus the cost of any remaining inventory held by BMS at that time). If the option is not exercised, all assets previously transferred to The Medicines Company will revert back to BMS. The option may be exercised by The Medicines Company between February and August 2014, in which case closing would be expected to occur in February 2015. Non-refundable upfront alliance proceeds of $115 million received by BMS were allocated to the rights transferred to The Medicines Company ($80 million) and the fair value of the option to purchase the remaining assets ($35 million). Please see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note3. Alliances” for more information regarding the alliance.



Other Licensing Arrangements



In addition to the strategic alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis forReyatazand with Merck for efavirenz, among others. We also own certain compounds out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization, including those obtained from our acquisitions. We are entitled to receive milestone payments as these compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on net product sales, if and when the products are commercialized.





Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity



We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.



In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.



Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s),










various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.



Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., the EU, Japan, and certain other countries, regulatory intellectual property rights are offered as incentives for research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term.



The U.S., EU, Japan and China also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy, or data protection. In some regions such as China, however, it is questionable whether such data protection laws are enforceable. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be of particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.



Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity and data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:



United States



In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product’s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.



A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must submit a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a Biologics License Application (BLA) is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights.



Chemical products



A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file an abbreviated NDA (aNDA) with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA.



An innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator’s listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator’s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.



In addition to benefiting from patent protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. A NDA that is designated as an orphan drug can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity.



Medicines approved under a NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator’s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation, but not for the drug itself, or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that formulation or indication.












Biologic products



The U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 created an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products that did not previously exist. Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity. Under the new regulatory mechanism, the FDA can approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, any manufacturer may file an application for approval of a “biosimilar” version of the innovator product. However, although an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the FDA. The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce the patents that protect innovative biological products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents. Such patent litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological products is first approved by the FDA.



In the U.S., the increased likelihood of generic and biosimilar challenges to innovators’ intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators’ market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators’ basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic and biosimilar drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity.



European Union



Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country-by-country basis.



The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU is through the “centralized procedure.” This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the EMA evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the European Commission (EC) and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a “mutual recognition procedure,” in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states.



After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and sometimes years to complete.



Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after October/November 2005 are subject to an “8+2+1” regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. If the marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the member state).



In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.



In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.












Japan



In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.



In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.



China



In China, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. There is uncertainty about China’s exclusivity laws which has resulted in generic competition in the China market. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., China has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory process.



In general, Chinese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity.



Rest of the World



In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan and China, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU. Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.





Marketing, Distribution and Customers



We promote the appropriate use of our products directly to healthcare professionals and providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and Managed Care Organizations (MCOs). We also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio, television, and digital advertising and promotion. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research and corporate mission. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” below.



Through our field sales and medical organizations, we explain the risks and benefits of the approved uses of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access for our products on formularies and reimbursement plans (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans, by providing information about the clinical profiles of our products. Our marketing and sales of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop scientific data and other information about our products and provide such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors, other medical professionals and managed care organizations.



Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each product marketing organization is supported by a sales force, which may be responsible for selling one or more products. We also have marketing organizations that focus on certain classes of customers such as managed care entities or certain types of marketing tools, such as digital or consumer communications. Our sales forces focus on communicating information about new products or new uses, as well as established products, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at physician specialists who treat the patients in need of our medicines.



Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross revenues to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our global gross revenues were as follows:

201320122011McKesson Corporation19%23%26%Cardinal Health, Inc.14%19%21%AmerisourceBergen Corporation15%14%16%












Our U.S. business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allow us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers and distributors to maintain inventory levels that are no more than one month of their demand.  The IMAs, including those with our three largest wholesalers, expire in December 2014 subject to certain termination provisions.



In a number of defined countries outside of the U.S., we have established a full scale distributor model to make medically necessary drugs available to patients. We continue to own the marketing authorization and trademarks for these products, but have contracted the services of a full-service distributor to provide distribution and logistics; regulatory and pharmacovigilance; and sales, advertising and promotion for certain products. These contracts clearly define terms and conditions, along with the services we will provide (such as supply through a firm order period). We monitor in-country sales and forecasts to ensure that reasonable inventory levels for all products for sale are maintained to fully and continuously meet the demand for the products within the distributor’s territory or responsibility. Sales in these distributor-based countries represented less than 1% of the Company’s total revenues in2013.





Competition



The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, customer service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor’s product is safer or more effective for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our revenues also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.



Generic Competition



One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of revenues of that product in a very short period of time.



The rate of revenues decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we have observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of revenues decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture.



In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation. For more information about market exclusivity, see “—Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity” above.



We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment.





Managed Care Organizations



The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us.












To successfully compete for business with MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it.



Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on MCO formularies.





Government Regulation and Price Constraints



The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.



Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our activities and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S.



The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.



The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil, monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.



Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process.



The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions.












The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety, (3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television advertisements.





We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.



Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EC has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.



In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and Germany, the government does not set pricing restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows.














Beginning in 2011, we were also required to provide a 50 percent discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the “donut hole” and we were also required to pay an annual non-tax-deductible fee to the federal government based on an allocation of our market share of branded prior year sales to certain government programs including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and TRICARE.



For further discussion of these rebates and programs, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Total Revenues” and “—Critical Accounting Policies.”





Sources and Availability of Raw Materials



In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, see “—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance” below and discussions of particular products.





Manufacturing and Quality Assurance



To meet all expected product demand, we operate and manage our manufacturing network, including our third-party contract manufacturers, and the inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and other expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing network, consisting of internal and external resources that minimize unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, see “—Government Regulation and Price Constraints” above.



Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Puerto Rico, France, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Mexico and China and require significant ongoing capital investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect to continue modification of our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. The FDA approved our large scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts in May 2012 and we continue to make capital investments in this facility.



We rely on third parties to manufacture or supply us with all or a portion of the active ingredients necessary for us to manufacture various products, includingBaraclude, theSustivaFranchise,Erbitux*,Yervoy, Reyataz, Abilify*,Kombiglyze,Orencia,Eliquis,Avalide*andPlavix*. Beginning February 1, 2014, following the sale of our diabetes business to AstraZeneca, AstraZeneca assumed manufacturing responsibilities forBydureon*andByetta*.To maintain a stable supply of these products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available. For example, we will rely on the capacity of our Devens, Massachusetts facility and the capacity available at our third-party contract manufacturers to manufactureOrencia.



If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the complex processing requirements for biologics, our business performance and prospects could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of manufacturing for regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.



In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements under which we have agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products.



Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of technical information and production processes.












Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.





Environmental Regulation



Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.



Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $19 million in2013, $21 million in2012and $16 million in2011on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental requirements. In addition, we invested in projects that reduce resource use of energy and water. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.



Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 16 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a “potentially responsible party” (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at approximately 23 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.



We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”





Employees



As of December 31,2013, we employed approximately 28,000 people. This includes approximately 4,000 employees that are in the process of being transferred to AstraZeneca as part of the sale of the diabetes business in February 2014. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note5. Assets Held-For-Sale” for further discussion.





Foreign Operations



We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.



For a geographic breakdown of total revenues, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note2. Business Segment Information” and for further discussion of our total revenues by geographic area see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Total Revenues.”



International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.



Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. The change in foreign exchange rates had a net unfavorable impact on the growth rate of revenues in2013. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on the










growth rate of revenues, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note10. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.”





Bristol-Myers Squibb Website



Our internet website address iswww.bms.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the “Investors—Corporate Governance” caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the “Investors—Stockholder Services” caption. In addition, information about our Sustainability programs is available on our website under the "Responsibility" caption.



We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the2014Annual Meeting of Stockholders and2013Annual Report will be available on our website under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption on or aboutMarch 19, 2014.



