
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[|X|]ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED] for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1998
                                       OR
[ ]  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE  REQUIRED]  For the  transition  period  from
     ____________ to _________________

                         Commission file number 1-13163

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
    North Carolina                                      13-3951308
    (State or other jurisdiction of                  (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

                 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky 40213
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (502) 874-8300

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
                                     Title of Class       on which Registered
                                  -------------------    -----------------------
  Securities registered 
    pursuant to 12(b) of the Act:  Common Stock, no      New York Stock Exchange
                                     par value     

  Securities registered 
    pursuant to 12(g) of the Act:                        None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     The aggregate  market value of the voting stock (which  consists  solely of
shares of Common Stock ) held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant as of March
18, 1998,  computed by reference to the closing price of the registrant's Common
Stock  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  Composite  Tape  on  such  date  was
$10,587,855,903.

     The number of shares  outstanding  of the  Registrant's  Common Stock as of
March 18, 1998 was 169,058 shares.

     Portions of the definitive proxy statement furnished to shareholders of the
Registrant in connection  with the annual meeting of  shareholders to be held on
May 20, 1999, are incorporated by reference into Part III.





                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business.

     TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  (referred  to herein as  "Tricon")  was
incorporated  under  the  laws of the  state  of North  Carolina  in  1997.  The
principal  executive  offices  of Tricon  are  located  at 1441  Gardiner  Lane,
Louisville,  Kentucky 40213,  and its telephone number at that location is (502)
874-8300.

     Tricon, the registrant,  together with its restaurant  operating  companies
and other  subsidiaries,  is referred to in this Form 10-K annual  report ("Form
10-K") as the Company. Prior to October 6, 1997, the business of the Company was
conducted  by  PepsiCo,   Inc.  ("PepsiCo")  through  various  subsidiaries  and
divisions.

     This Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Cautionary Statements
on page 47.

     (a) General Development of Business

     In January 1997,  PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant
businesses to  shareholders as an independent  public company (the  "Spin-off").
Effective as of October 6, 1997,  PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant  businesses
by distributing  all of the outstanding  shares of common stock of Tricon to its
shareholders. Tricon's Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
on October 7, 1997 under the symbol "YUM." (Prior to that date,  from  September
17, 1997 through  October 6, 1997,  Tricon's  Common Stock was traded on the New
York  Stock  Exchange  on a  "when-issued"  basis).  As used in this Form  10-K,
references to Tricon or the Company include the historical  operating results of
the businesses  and  operations  transferred to the Company in the Spin-off and,
except  where  indicated,  include  the  non-core  businesses  divested in 1997.
Additionally,  throughout this Form 10-K, the terms "restaurants,"  "stores" and
"units" are used interchangeably.

     Information  about the Spin-off and the non-core  businesses is included in
the Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations ("Management's Discussion and Analysis") and the related Consolidated
Financial  Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 19 through 47; and
Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 82, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     (b) Financial Information about Operating Segments

     Operating  segment  information  for the years  ended  December  26,  1998,
December  27,  1997  and  December  28,  1996 is  included  in the  Management's
Discussion and Analysis and the related  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and
footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 19 through 47; and Part II, Item 8, pages 48
through 82, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     (c) Narrative Description of Business

     General

     Tricon is the world's  largest quick  service  restaurant  ("QSR")  company
based on number of system  units,  with almost 30,000 units in 101 countries and
territories.  The Tricon  organization  is currently  made up of four  operating
companies organized around its three core concepts, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
(the "Concepts"). The four operating companies are KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
Tricon  Restaurants  International  ("Tricon  International").  KFC is  based in
Louisville,  Kentucky;  Pizza Hut and Tricon  International are headquartered in
Dallas, Texas; and Taco Bell is based in Irvine, California.





     Restaurant Concepts

     Through  its  three  widely-recognized   Concepts,  the  Company  develops,
operates,  franchises  and  licenses a  worldwide  system of  restaurants  which
prepare,  package and sell a menu of  competitively  priced  food  items.  These
restaurants  are  operated by the Company or,  under the terms of  franchise  or
license  agreements,  by  franchisees  or licensees  who are  independent  third
parties,  or by affiliates  operating under joint venture agreements between the
operating companies and local business people.

     The  Company's  franchise  program is  designed to assure  consistency  and
quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. Under the standard
franchise  agreement,  franchisees  supply  capital  -  initially  by  paying  a
franchise  fee,  purchasing  or leasing  the land and  building  and  purchasing
equipment,  signs, seating,  inventories and supplies, and over the longer term,
by reinvesting  in the business.  Franchisees  then  contribute to the Company's
revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.

     The Company  believes  that it is  important  to  maintain  strong and open
relationships with its franchisees and their  representatives.  To this end, the
Company  invests  a  significant  amount  of time  working  with the  franchisee
community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business,
ranging from new products to new equipment to new management techniques.

     Each of Tricon's  four  operating  companies  is engaged in the  operation,
development,  franchising  and  licensing  of a system of both  traditional  and
non-traditional  QSR units.  Non-traditional  units  include  express  units and
kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in  non-traditional  locations
like  airports,  gas and  convenience  stores,  stadiums,  amusement  parks  and
colleges,  where a  full-scale  traditional  outlet  would not be  practical  or
efficient.  In  addition,  as of  year-end  1998,  there  were 618  units in the
worldwide  system housing more than one Concept.  Of these, 609 units offer food
products  from two of the  Concepts (a "2n1"),  and 9 units offer food  products
from each of the Concepts (a"3n1").

     In each Concept,  consumers can dine in and/or carry out food. In addition,
Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-thru option in many stores, and Pizza Hut offers
a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more
limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.

     Each Concept has  proprietary  menu items and emphasizes the preparation of
food  with  high  quality  ingredients  as well as unique  recipes  and  special
seasonings  to  provide  appealing,  tasty and  attractive  food at  competitive
prices.

     Following is a description of each Concept's history.

     KFC
     ---

     KFC was founded in Corbin,  Kentucky,  by Colonel  Harland D.  Sanders,  an
early  developer  of the  quick  service  food  business  and a  pioneer  of the
restaurant franchise concept. The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs
and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee
in 1952.  KFC now has more than 5,100 units in the U.S., and over 5,200 units in
80 countries and territories  outside the U.S.  Approximately  32 percent of the
U.S. units, and 30 percent of the non-U.S. units, are operated by the Company or
joint ventures in which the Company participates.

     While product  offerings  vary  throughout  the worldwide  system,  all KFC
restaurants   offer  fried  chicken  products  and  many  also  offer  non-fried
chicken-on-the-bone  products.  These  products  are  marketed  under  the names
Original  Recipe,  Extra Tasty  Crispy and Tender  Roast,  among  others.  Other
principal  entree items  include  Colonel's  Crispy  Strips and various  chicken
sandwiches  (outside of the U.S.), and seasonally,  Chunky Chicken Pot Pies. KFC
restaurants  also  offer a  variety  of side  items,  such as  biscuits,  mashed
potatoes and gravy, coleslaw, corn, Potato Wedges (in the U.S.) and french fries
(outside of the U.S.), as well as desserts and  non-alcoholic  beverages.  Their
decor  is  characterized  by the  image of the  Colonel  and  KFC's  distinctive
packaging includes the "Bucket" of chicken.



     As of  year-end  1998,  KFC was the leader in the U.S.  chicken QSR segment
among companies  featuring chicken as their primary product offering,  with a 55
percent market share in that segment, and a greater than 5 to 1 lead in terms of
system sales over its closest national competitor.

     Pizza Hut
     ---------

     Pizza Hut operates in 88 countries  and  territories  throughout  the world
under the name  "Pizza  Hut" and  features a variety of  pizzas,  including  Pan
Pizza, Thin n' Crispy,  Pizzeria Stuffed Crust,  Hand Tossed and Sicilian,  each
offered with a variety of different toppings.  Pizza Hut also features beverages
and,  in some  restaurants,  breadsticks,  pasta,  salads  and  sandwiches.  The
distinctive Pizza Hut decor features a bright red roof.

     The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita,  Kansas,  and
within a year,  the first  franchise  unit was opened.  Today,  Pizza Hut is the
largest  restaurant chain in the world  specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat
pizza  products.  As of year-end  1998, the Concept had grown to more than 8,400
units in the U.S.,  and more than 3,800 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately
35 percent of the U.S. units, and 43 percent of the non-U.S. units, are operated
by the Company or joint ventures in which the Company participates.

     As of  year-end  1998,  Pizza  Hut was the  leader  in the U.S.  pizza  QSR
segment,  with a 22 percent market share in that segment,  and almost double the
system sales of its closest national competitor.


     Taco Bell
     ---------

     Taco Bell operates  under the name "Taco Bell" and  specializes  in Mexican
style food  products,  including  various types of tacos and  burritos,  salads,
nachos and other related items.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo
on their signage.

     The first Taco Bell  restaurant  was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey,
California,  and in 1964,  the first Taco Bell  franchise  was sold. By year-end
1998,  there were more than 6,800 Taco Bell units within the U.S., and more than
170 units outside of the U.S. Approximately 23 percent of the U.S. units, and 27
percent of the non-U.S. units, are operated by the Company.

     Taco Bell is the  leader in the U.S.  Mexican  QSR  segment,  with a market
share in that segment of 73 percent.

     Tricon International
     --------------------

     The international  operations of the three Tricon Concepts are consolidated
into a separate international  operating company (Tricon  International),  which
has directed its focus toward generating more system growth through  franchisees
and  concentrating  its  development  of  Company  units in those  markets  with
sufficient  scale.  Tricon  International  has developed new global  systems and
tools designed to improve marketing,  operations consistency,  product delivery,
market planning and development and franchise support capability.

     The  Company has over 9,200  units in the system  outside of the U.S.  This
number has grown at a  compounded  rate of 8 percent  over the past five  years.
Approximately 35 percent of the total non-U.S. units are operated by the Company
or  joint  ventures  in  which  the  Company   participates.   In  1998,  Tricon
International  accounted for 32 percent of the Company's total system sales, and
24 percent of the Company's revenues.



     Operating Structure

     In all three of its Concepts, the Company either operates units or they are
operated by independent franchisees or licensees.  Franchisees can range in size
from individuals owning just a few units to large publicly traded companies.  In
addition,  the Company has  established  international  joint  ventures  between
itself and third  parties.  As of  year-end  1998,  approximately  32 percent of
Tricon's worldwide units were operated by the Company (including approximately 4
percent by joint ventures in which the Company  participates),  approximately 56
percent by franchisees and approximately 12 percent by licensees.

     Refranchising

     Beginning in 1995,  the Company  began  rebalancing  the system toward more
franchisee  ownership to focus its resources on what it believes are high growth
potential  markets where it can more efficiently  leverage its scale.  Since the
strategy began,  the Company has refranchised  over 3,700 units:  1,389 units in
1998,  1,418  units  in  1997,  659  units  in  1996  and  264  units  in  1995,
respectively.  As a result of the Company's refranchising activity, coupled with
new points of distribution added by franchisees and licensees and the program to
upgrade the asset  portfolio by closing  underperforming  stores,  the Company's
overall  ownership of total system units (i.e.,  Company and joint venture units
in which the Company  participates)  declined 18 percentage points in four years
from  50  percent  at  year-end  1994  to  32  percent  at  year-end  1998.  The
refranchising  program is expected  to  continue,  in the near term,  but as the
Company approaches a  Company/franchisee  balance more consistent with its major
competitors,  refranchising  activity is expected to substantially decrease over
time.  The  continuation  of the  program  depends on the  Company's  ability to
identify and sell to qualified  franchisees  Company  restaurants  at prices and
terms considered by the Company to be appropriate.  There can be no assurance as
to whether, or to what extent,  management will be able to effect  refranchising
activities in the future.

  Competitive Advantages

     Global Scale

     Powerful Concepts in Growing Food Categories.  KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
are three of the most recognized  restaurant  Concepts in the world. Each is the
U.S.  leader in terms of market share and number of units in its respective food
category.  The Company  believes that the near  universal  appeal of chicken and
pizza provide a strong  foundation  for global Concept  expansion,  and that the
emerging  trend  towards  Mexican-style  foods  may  provide  additional  growth
opportunities.

     Worldwide  Capabilities.  Based on available  industry data,  Tricon is the
world's  largest QSR company  measured  by system  units and the second  largest
based on system sales. In terms of international locations, the Company believes
that, as of year-end 1998, its total of over 9,200 system units outside the U.S.
was  second  only to  McDonald's  Corporation.  The  Company  has  global  scale
capabilities in marketing, advertising,  purchasing and research and development
("R&D").  Tricon  believes that its  worldwide  network of Company and franchise
operations  provides  a strong  foundation  from  which to  expand  in  existing
markets,  enter new markets and launch new products and marketing campaigns.  In
many  countries  and  regions,  the  Company  has  the  scale  to use  extensive
television advertising,  an important factor in increasing brand awareness.  The
Company's  scale  enables it to negotiate  superior  marketing  promotions  when
compared to many of its competitors.

     Purchasing/Distribution  Network. The Company is a substantial purchaser of
a number of food  products,  and it believes its scale  purchasing  capabilities
provide  it  with  competitive  advantages  such  as its  ability  to  ensure  a
consistent  supply of high  quality  food,  ingredients  and other  supplies  at
attractive  prices to all of its Concepts.  In 1996, to ensure reliable sources,
the  Company  consolidated  most of its  worldwide  food and supply  procurement
activities under an internal  organization  now called Supply Chain  Management,
which  sources,  negotiates  contracts for and buys  specified food and supplies
from  hundreds of suppliers in over 60 countries and  territories.  Supply Chain
Management  monitors  market  trends and seeks to  identify  and  capitalize  on
purchasing  opportunities that will enhance the Company's  competitive position.
The principal products purchased include beef, cheese, chicken products, cooking
oils, corn, flour,  lettuce,  paper and packaging materials,  pinto beans, pork,
seasonings, soft drink beverage products and tomato products.



     To ensure the wholesomeness of all food products, suppliers are required to
meet or  exceed  strict  quality  control  standards.  Long-term  contracts  and
long-term  vendor  relationships  have  been  used  to  ensure  availability  of
products.  The Company has also entered into commodity  futures contracts traded
on national  exchanges  with the  objective of reducing  food costs.  While such
hedging activity has historically been done on a limited basis, hedging activity
could  increase in the future if the Company  believes it would  result in lower
total  costs.  The  Company  has  not  experienced  any  significant  continuous
shortages  of  supplies.  Prices  paid for  these  supplies  may be  subject  to
fluctuation.  When  prices  increase,  the  Company  may be able to pass on such
increases to its  customers,  although there is no assurance this can be done in
the future.

         In October 1998, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the
KFC National Purchasing Cooperative,  Inc. (the "KFC Co-op") and representatives
of the  Company's  KFC,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  franchisee  groups,  to form a
unified purchasing cooperative (the "Unified Co-op") for restaurant products and
equipment  in the U.S. The  arrangement  combines  the  purchasing  power of the
Company and franchisee  restaurants in the U.S., which the Company believes will
further  leverage the system's scale to drive cost savings and  effectiveness in
the purchasing  function.  Annual purchasing volume for the new Unified Co-op is
expected to exceed $4 billion, making it the largest such purchasing cooperative
of its kind in the QSR  industry.  The Company  also  believes  that the Unified
Co-op should  result in an even closer  alignment  of  interests  and a stronger
relationship with its franchisee community.

     The Unified Co-op has been  organized as an  independent  Kentucky  limited
liability company that is jointly governed by  representatives of the KFC, Pizza
Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups and Tricon. The members of the Unified Co-op
are the KFC Co-op,  the Pizza Hut National  Purchasing  Coop,  Inc. and the Taco
Bell National  Purchasing Coop, Inc. (each, a "Concept Co-op" and  collectively,
the  "Concept  Co-ops").  Each of the Concept  Co-ops is organized as a Delaware
corporation with shareholder  members (including the Company) that are operators
of the Company's three Concepts, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.

     Effective  as of March 1, 1999,  the Unified  Co-op and the Concept  Co-ops
commenced the operation of purchasing programs on behalf of their members.

     The core  mission of the Unified  Co-op is to provide  the lowest  possible
sustainable  store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment. It is
intended  that the Unified  Co-op will  incorporate  the best  practices  of the
Company's Supply Chain  Management group in the U.S., which provided  purchasing
services to all Company restaurants,  most Taco Bell franchisee restaurants, and
most  Pizza  Hut  franchisee  restaurants,  and the KFC  Co-op,  which  provided
purchasing  services  to most KFC  franchisees  and some Taco Bell and Pizza Hut
franchisees.  Upon  commencement  of  operations on March 1, 1999, a substantial
number of both the Supply Chain Management employees and the KFC Co-op employees
became  employees of the Unified  Co-op.  The Company  believes that this should
result in a high degree of  continuity  in  purchasing  programs for Company and
franchisee restaurants in the U.S.

     In  connection  with the  formation of the Unified  Co-op,  the Company has
entered into the Tricon Purchasing Coop Agreement with the Unified Co-op (a copy
of which is filed as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K).  This  Agreement sets forth,
among other things, the Company's  commitment to the purchasing  programs of the
Unified Co-op and the Concept  Co-ops,  and the  coordination  of the purchasing
activities of the Unified Co-op and Concept Co-ops with the franchisor and brand
management rights and obligations of the Company and its operating companies.

     Historically,  many  food  products,  paper  and  packaging  supplies,  and
equipment  used  in  the  operation  of  the  Company's  restaurants  have  been
distributed to individual Company units by PepsiCo Food Services ("PFS"),  which
was PepsiCo's restaurant distribution operation prior to its disposition in 1997
as  described  below.  PFS also sold and  distributed  these  same items to many
franchisees and licensees that operate in the three restaurant  systems,  though
principally to Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchised/licensed  units in the U.S. In
May 1997,  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco Bell  entered  into a  five-year  Sales and
Distribution  Agreement  with PFS to  distribute  the majority of their food and
supplies for Company  stores,  subject to PFS  maintaining  certain  performance
levels.  The Sales and Distribution  Agreement became effective upon the closing
of 



the sale by PepsiCo  of the  distribution  business  of PFS to  AmeriServe  Food
Distribution,  Inc.  ("AmeriServe"),  a subsidiary of Holberg Industries,  Inc.,
pursuant to a definitive agreement dated as of May 23, 1997, as amended.

     Effective as of November 1, 1998, the Company, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
entered  into an amended and  restated  Sales and  Distribution  Agreement  with
AmeriServe (the "Amended AmeriServe Agreement") which provides for the extension
of the term of the original  agreement with PFS for a period of two and one-half
years. The Amended AmeriServe  Agreement (a copy of which is filed as an Exhibit
to this Form 10-K) substantially modifies the way in which distribution fees are
calculated,  and includes  incentives for utilizing more efficient  distribution
practices by both parties. The Amended AmeriServe Agreement,  which continues to
cover  all  Company  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and  Taco  Bell  restaurants  in the  U.S.
(including  units sold pursuant to the Company's  refranchising  program),  also
provides  for a two and  one-half  year  renewal  option  that could  extend the
contract, based on market rates, through July 2007.

     KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Tricon  International  have also entered into
multi-year  agreements with Pepsi-Cola  Company regarding the sale of Pepsi-Cola
beverage products at Company stores.

     Strong Cash Flow

     As indicated in Items 7 and 8, the Company has generated  significant  cash
flows from operating  activities and through its global  refranchising  program.
This cash flow has funded existing  operations,  capital  expenditures  and debt
reduction of over $1 billion since the Spin-off. This cash flow has also allowed
the Company to fund  investment  in product  innovation  and  quality,  improved
operating platforms leading to improved service, information technology systems,
store-level  human  resources   including   recruiting  and  training,   testing
alternative modes of distribution and creative marketing programs.

     A discussion of the Company's financing activities, cash flow and liquidity
is contained in  Management's  Discussion and Analysis in Part II, Item 7, pages
19 through 47.

     Certain Core Competencies

     Marketing.   The  Company  believes  that  it  has  developed   significant
advertising  capabilities and has been able to generate  substantial interest in
and excitement around its brands.  Many of the Company's  advertising  campaigns
have been  recognized in the past with awards  acknowledging  their  creativity,
execution  or  achievements  in creating or  maintaining  brand  awareness.  The
Company's  size  enables  it to be a  leading  advertiser  in the  food  service
industry,  which it can  leverage  to achieve  efficiency  in  national  network
television advertising, supplemented with local market television advertising.

     Tricon's four operating  companies  implement  periodic  promotions as they
deem  appropriate or desirable in order to maintain and increase their sales and
store profits.  They also rely on radio,  newspaper and other print advertising,
in-store point of purchase advertising,  and direct mail and newspaper couponing
programs, to attract customers and encourage the purchase of their products. The
Company has developed and utilizes  sophisticated  marketing research techniques
to measure customer satisfaction and consumer trends.

     Quality  Assurance.  The Quality Assurance  Departments at each of Tricon's
four operating companies help ensure that the system's  restaurants provide high
quality,  wholesome food products in clean and safe  environments.  The system's
restaurants  are required to buy food  supplies,  ingredients,  seasonings,  and
equipment  only from  approved  suppliers,  who are  required  to meet or exceed
system  standards  designed to ensure product  quality,  safety and consistency.
From time to time, the Quality Assurance  Departments  inspect the facilities of
their  suppliers  and request  samples for  testing  and other  quality  control
monitoring and measures. Many of these suppliers, such as poultry producers, are
also subject to some government inspection. In addition,  representatives of the
Quality Assurance Departments visit restaurants from time to time to ensure that
food is properly  stored,  handled and prepared in  accordance  with  prescribed
standards and specifications,  as well as to provide training in food safety and
sanitation  measures  to  the  restaurant   operators.   The  Quality  Assurance
Departments are also responsible for remaining current on issues related to food
safety and interacting with regulatory  agencies as may be required or desirable
on these matters.



     U.S. Growth Opportunities

     Tricon believes it has many  opportunities  to achieve growth in both sales
per unit and distribution channels in its U.S. businesses due to the following:

     Daypart  Expansion.  The  Company's  strengths in market  research and R&D,
combined  with  underdeveloped  dayparts  (segments of each business day) in all
three  Concepts  provide an  opportunity to increase the average sales per unit.
According  to  CREST,  in  1998  in the  U.S.,  almost  two-thirds  of  KFC  and
approximately  three-quarters  of Pizza Hut U.S.  system  store  sales  occurred
during the dinner  occasion.  At Taco Bell,  approximately  half of U.S.  system
store sales occurred during the lunch occasion,  with about 45 percent occurring
at dinner and the remainder during snacking hours.

     Channel   Expansion.   The  Company   believes  that   significant   growth
opportunities  exist with respect to delivery services.  The Company's products,
especially  chicken  and  pizza,  are well  suited  to  delivery  because  their
relatively  long holding  times allow them to be delivered hot and ready to eat.
Today,  Pizza Hut has a well-developed  delivery system and 493 KFC units in the
U.S. currently offer some delivery services.  In addition,  the Company believes
there is  opportunity  to  innovate  with  respect to the type of unit that best
meets  consumer  needs.  Some  of  the  alternative   channels  that  are  under
development  include  non-traditional  units such as Taco Bell Express in venues
such as shopping malls, food courts,  airports,  gas and convenience stores, and
schools.

     Multi-Branding.   The  Company  is  actively   pursuing   the  strategy  of
multi-branding,  where  two or more of its  Concepts  are  operated  in a single
restaurant  unit. As of year-end 1998,  there were 618 system units housing more
than one Concept including 78 2n1 and 3 3n1 units added in the U.S. (net of unit
closures) during 1998. By combining two or more of its Concepts in one location,
particularly  those  that have  complementary  daypart  strengths,  the  Company
believes it can  generate  higher sales  volumes from such units,  significantly
improve returns on per unit  investment,  and enhance its ability to penetrate a
greater number of trade areas throughout the U.S.  Through the  consolidation of
market planning  initiatives  across all three of its Concepts,  the Company has
established multi-year development plans by trade area to optimize franchise and
company penetration of all three Concepts and to improve returns on its existing
asset base. The development of these multi-branded units may be limited, in some
instances, by prior development and/or territory rights granted to franchisees.

     International Growth Opportunities

     Focus on Key Growth Markets. Following the Spin-off, the Company redirected
its international ownership strategy to focus on building Company stores in what
it believes  are high growth  potential  markets  where it can more  efficiently
leverage its scale,  while increasing  franchise  penetration  through franchise
development and refranchising in other international markets. As an example, the
Company has  demonstrated  considerable  success in  penetrating  Asian emerging
markets,  with some of its highest  volume stores in the world being operated in
China. In the future, the Company intends to focus a significant  portion of its
new-unit  capital on this and other  potential  growth  markets,  and reduce its
number  of  primary  equity  markets  from  27  to  its  ultimate  objective  of
approximately 10 markets.

     Underdeveloped  Presence.  Although  the Company and its  franchisees  have
established a presence in 101 countries and territories, many of these countries
are still  underpenetrated  considering not only population size and growth, but
also per capita  purchasing power. Even in countries which have populations with
similar per capita  purchasing  power, the ratio of stores per million people is
still far  below  that  found in the U.S.,  and the  Company  believes  there is
significant  opportunity to leverage an increasing demand for convenient,  fully
prepared foods in those countries.

     Scale Advantages. Tricon International has the ability to leverage not only
the  scale  advantages  of  administration,  purchasing  and  R&D,  but also the
experience of the  Company's  U.S.  operations  to quickly  identify new product
opportunities for local markets.



     Human Resources and Management

     The  Company  believes  that  high  quality,   customer-focused  restaurant
management  is critical to its  long-term  success.  It also  believes  that its
leadership  position,  strong  results-oriented  and  recognition  culture,  and
various training and incentive programs help attract and retain highly motivated
restaurant  general  managers  ("RGMs") who are committed to providing  superior
customer  satisfaction and outstanding  business  results.  The Company believes
that having a high quality  restaurant manager in a unit for a meaningful tenure
is one of the most important  factors in a unit's  ability to achieve  excellent
results in the areas of sales, profits and overall guest satisfaction.

     The Company's  restaurant  management  structure varies by concept and unit
size. Generally,  each Company restaurant is led by an RGM, together with one or
more assistant managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume
of the  restaurant.  Each  restaurant  usually  has  between  10  and 35  hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company's four operating companies
each issue detailed manuals covering all aspects of their respective operations,
including food handling and product preparation  procedures,  safety and quality
issues, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting procedures. The
restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each
unit and for ensuring  compliance  with operating  standards.  RGMs' efforts are
monitored by area managers or market coaches,  who work with  approximately nine
to eleven restaurants.  The Company's  restaurants are visited from time to time
by various senior operators within their respective organizations to help ensure
adherence to system standards.

     RGMs attend and complete  their  respective  operating  company's  required
training  programs.  These  programs  consist  of initial  training,  as well as
additional  continuing  development and training programs that may be offered or
required from time to time.  Initial manager training programs generally last at
least six weeks  and  emphasize  leadership,  business  management,  supervisory
skills (including training,  coaching, and recruiting),  product preparation and
production,  safety, quality control,  customer service,  labor management,  and
equipment maintenance.

     Sale of Non-Core Concepts

     In late 1996,  the  Company  set a strategy  to focus  human and  financial
resources on growing the sales and  profitability of its Concepts.  As a result,
the non-core restaurant  businesses of California Pizza Kitchen,  Chevys Mexican
Restaurant,  D'Angelo's  Sandwich  Shop,  East Side  Mario's and Hot 'n Now (the
"Non-core  Businesses")  were sold in 1997.  The  operations  of these  Non-core
Businesses were not material to the operations of Tricon.

Information about the Non-core Businesses is included in Management's Discussion
and Analysis and the related Consolidated  Financial Statements and footnotes in
Part II,  Item 7, pages 19 through 47; and Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 82,
respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     Trademarks and Patents

     The Company has  numerous  registered  trademarks  and service  marks.  The
Company  believes  that  many of  these  marks,  including  its  Kentucky  Fried
Chicken(R),  KFC(R), Pizza Hut(R) and Taco Bell(R) trademarks,  have significant
value and are materially  important to its business.  The Company's policy is to
pursue registration of its important  trademarks whenever possible and to oppose
vigorously  any  infringement  of its  trademarks.  The  use  of  the  Company's
trademarks by  franchisees  and licensees has been  authorized in KFC, Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell  franchise and license  agreements.  In addition,  the Company has
granted limited rights to use certain of its trademarks to the Unified Co-op and
Concept  Co-ops  in  connection  with  the  purchasing  and  program  management
activities to be carried on by those entities. Under current law and with proper
use, the Company's rights in its trademarks can last  indefinitely.  The Company
also has certain patents on restaurant equipment, which, while valuable, are not
material to its business.




     Working Capital

     Information about the Company's working capital is included in Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  in Part II,  Item 7, pages 19 through 47 of this Form
10-K.

     Customers

     The  Company's  business is not dependent  upon a single  customer or small
group of customers.

     Seasonal Operations

     The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material
degree.

     Backlog Orders

     Company restaurants have no backlog orders.

     Government Contracts

     No material  portion of the Company's  business is subject to renegotiation
of profits or  termination of contracts or  subcontracts  at the election of the
U.S. government.

     Competition

     The  overall  food  service  industry  and the QSR  segment  are  intensely
competitive  with  respect  to  food  quality,   price,  service,   convenience,
restaurant  location and concept.  The restaurant  business is often affected by
changes in consumer  tastes;  national,  regional or local economic  conditions;
currency  fluctuations;  demographic trends;  traffic patterns; the type, number
and location of competing  restaurants;  and disposable  purchasing  power.  The
Company competes within each market with national and regional chains as well as
locally-owned  restaurants,  not only for customers, but also for management and
hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.

     Research and Development

     The Company operates R&D facilities in Louisville, Kentucky; Dallas, Texas;
and Irvine,  California.  In 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company spent $21 million,
$21 million and $20 million, respectively, on R&D activities.

     Environmental Matters

     The Company is not aware of any federal,  state or local environmental laws
or  regulations  which  will  materially  affect  its  earnings  or  competitive
position,  or result in  material  capital  expenditures.  However,  the Company
cannot  predict the effect on its  operations of possible  future  environmental
legislation  or  regulations.  During  1998,  there  were  no  material  capital
expenditures  for  environmental   control   facilities  and  no  such  material
expenditures are anticipated.

     Government Regulation

     U.S.  The  Company  is subject  to  various  Federal,  state and local laws
affecting  its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with
licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities,  which include
health,  sanitation,  safety and fire agencies in the state or  municipality  in
which the  restaurant  is located.  In  addition,  each of the Tricon  operating
companies   must   comply   with   various   state   laws  that   regulate   the
franchisor/franchisee   relationship.   To  date,   the  Company  has  not  been
significantly  affected by any  difficulty,  delay or failure to obtain required
licenses or approvals.




    A small  portion of Pizza  Hut's net sales is  attributable  to the sale of
beer and wine.  A license  is  required  in most  cases for each site that sells
alcoholic  beverages  (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and  licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  Regulations  governing the sale of
alcoholic beverages relate to many aspects of restaurant  operations,  including
the minimum  age of patrons  and  employees,  hours of  operation,  advertising,
wholesale purchasing,  inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of
alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant which sells alcoholic beverages
to obtain or retain  these  licenses  may  adversely  affect  such  restaurant's
revenues and operating profits.

     The  Company  is also  subject to Federal  and state  laws  governing  such
matters as  employment  and pay  practices,  overtime,  tip  credits and working
conditions.  Since  the bulk of the  Company's  employees  are paid on an hourly
basis at rates  related to the Federal  minimum  wage,  increases in the minimum
wage could significantly increase the Company's labor costs.

     The  Company is also  subject to Federal  and state child labor laws which,
among  other  things,  prohibit  the use of  certain  "hazardous  equipment"  by
employees  18  years  of age or  younger.  The  Company  has  not to  date  been
materially adversely affected by such laws.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Americans With Disabilities Act ("ADA") in order to conform to its requirements.
Under the ADA,  the  Company  could be  required  to expend  funds to modify its
restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable  accommodation  for
the employment of, disabled persons. Such expenditures,  if required,  would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations.

     International.  Internationally,  the Company's  restaurants are subject to
national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting the
Company's domestic restaurants, including laws and regulations concerning labor,
health, sanitation and safety. The international restaurants are also subject to
tariffs  and  regulations  on  imported   commodities  and  equipment  and  laws
regulating  foreign  investment.  International  compliance  with  environmental
requirements  has not had a material  adverse effect on the Company's  earnings,
capital expenditures or competitive position.

     Employees

     At year-end  1998,  the Company  employed  approximately  260,000  persons,
approximately 70 percent of whom were part-time employees.  Nearly 70 percent of
the Company's  employees  are employed in the U.S. The Company  believes that it
provides working  conditions and compensation  that compare favorably with those
of its  principal  competitors.  Most  Company  employees  are paid on an hourly
basis.  Less than 1 percent  of the  Company's  U.S.  employees  are  covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  The Company's non-U.S.  employees are subject
to numerous labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in
which the Company operates.  The Company considers its employee  relations to be
good.

     d)  Financial Information about International and U.S. Operations

     Financial  information about International and U.S. markets is incorporated
herein by reference from Selected  Financial Data,  Management's  Discussion and
Analysis and the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part
II,  Item 6, page 18; Part II, Item 7, pages 19 through 47; and Part II, Item 8,
pages 48 through 82, respectively, of this Form 10-K.




Item 2.   Properties.

     As of year-end 1998, Tricon Concepts owned  approximately  2,200 and leased
approximately   4,000  units  in  the  U.S.;  and  Tricon   International  owned
approximately 600 and leased  approximately 1,600 units outside the U.S. Company
restaurants  in the U.S.  which are not owned are  generally  leased for initial
terms of 15 or 20 years and generally have renewal options;  however,  Pizza Hut
delivery/carryout  units in the U.S.  generally  are  leased  for  significantly
shorter  initial  terms with short renewal  options.  Joint  ventures,  in which
Tricon  International is a partner,  owned or leased  approximately 1,100 units.
Tricon leases Tricon  International's and Pizza Hut's corporate  headquarters in
Dallas, Texas. Taco Bell leases its corporate headquarters in Irvine, California
and KFC owns its corporate  headquarters and a research  facility in Louisville,
Kentucky.  In addition,  Tricon owns an office  facility in Wichita,  Kansas and
leases office facilities for accounting  services in both Louisville,  Kentucky,
and  Albuquerque,  New Mexico.  The  Wichita,  Kansas,  facility  (the  "Wichita
Facility")  was under  contract  for sale during  1998,  and primary  operations
conducted at the Wichita  Facility were relocated to Louisville,  Kentucky,  and
Dallas, Texas, in 1998 and, the facility was closed. However, due to contractual
disputes with the proposed  buyer,  the expected fourth quarter 1998 sale of the
Wichita  Facility at a gain to this buyer did not occur,  and is not  considered
imminent.  The Company  continues  to expect to sell the  Wichita  Facility at a
price which should at least  recover its carrying  amount,  but cannot  estimate
either  the  amount or timing of any  potential  gain at this  time.  Additional
information  about the  Company's  properties  is included  in the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 82, of
this Form 10-K.

     The Company  believes that its properties  are in good operating  condition
and are suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.

     The  Company  is subject to  various  claims and  contingencies  related to
lawsuits, taxes, real estate, environmental and other matters arising out of the
normal  course of business.  The  following is a brief  description  of the more
significant of these categories of lawsuits and other matters.  Except as stated
below,  the Company believes that the ultimate  liability,  if any, in excess of
amounts already provided for in these matters,  is not likely to have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  annual  results  of  operations,  financial
condition or cash flows.

     Franchising

     A  substantial  number  of the  Company's  restaurants  are  franchised  to
independent  business people operating under  arrangements with the Company.  In
the course of the franchise relationship,  occasional disputes arise between the
Company and its  franchisees  relating to a broad range of subjects,  including,
without  limitation,  quality,  service,  and  cleanliness  issues,  contentions
regarding grants, transfers or terminations of franchises,  territorial disputes
and delinquent payments.

     Employees

     At any given time,  the Company  employs  hundreds of thousands of persons,
primarily in its restaurants.  In addition,  thousands of persons,  from time to
time, seek employment with the Company and its  restaurants.  From time to time,
disputes  arise  regarding  employee  hiring,   compensation,   termination  and
promotion practices.

     Like some other retail  employers,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  recently  have
been faced in a few states with  allegations  of purported  class-wide  wage and
hour violations.



     On May 11, 1998, a purported  class action lawsuit against Pizza Hut, Inc.,
and one of its franchisees,  PacPizza,  LLC, entitled  Aguardo,  et al. v. Pizza
Hut, Inc., et al.  ("Aguardo"),  was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California of the County of San Francisco. The lawsuit was filed by three former
Pizza Hut  restaurant  general  managers  purporting to represent  approximately
1,300 current and former California restaurant general managers of Pizza Hut and
PacPizza.  The lawsuit alleges  violations of state wage and hour laws involving
unpaid  overtime  wages  and  vacation  pay and seeks an  unspecified  amount in
damages.  This lawsuit is in the early discovery  phase. A trial date of October
28, 1999 has been set.

     On  October  2, 1996,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled Mynaf, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Mynaf"),  was filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California  of the County of Santa Clara.  The lawsuit was
filed  by two  former  restaurant  general  managers  and two  former  assistant
restaurant general managers  purporting to represent all current and former Taco
Bell restaurant  general managers and assistant  restaurant  general managers in
California.  The lawsuit  alleges  violations of  California  wage and hour laws
involving  unpaid overtime wages. The complaint also includes an unfair business
practices claim. The four named plaintiffs claim individual damages ranging from
$10,000 to $100,000 each. On September 17, 1998, the court  certified a class of
approximately 3,000 current and former assistant restaurant general managers and
restaurant general managers.  Taco Bell petitioned the appellate court to review
the trial court's  certification  order. The petition was denied on December 31,
1998. Taco Bell has filed a petition for review to the California  Supreme Court
which is currently pending. No trial date has been set.

     Plaintiffs in the Aguardo and Mynaf  lawsuits  seek damages,  penalties and
costs of litigation,  including  attorneys'  fees, and also seek declaratory and
injunctive  relief.  The Company  intends to vigorously  defend these  lawsuits.
However,  the outcome of these  lawsuits  cannot be predicted at this time.  The
Company believes that the ultimate  liability,  if any, arising from such claims
or  contingencies  is not likely to have a material adverse effect on its annual
results of  operations,  financial  condition  or cash  flows.  It is,  however,
reasonably  possible  that  any  ultimate  liability  could be  material  to the
Company's year-over-year growth in earnings in the quarter and year recorded.

     On August  29,  1997,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled  Bravo, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Bravo"),  was filed in the Circuit
Court of the State of Oregon of the County of  Multnomah.  The lawsuit was filed
by two former Taco Bell shift  managers  purporting  to represent  approximately
16,000  current and former  hourly  employees  statewide.  The  lawsuit  alleges
violations  of state  wage and hour laws,  principally  involving  unpaid  wages
including  overtime,  and  rest  and  meal  period  violations,   and  seeks  an
unspecified amount in damages.  Under Oregon class action procedures,  Taco Bell
was allowed an  opportunity  to "cure" the unpaid wage and hour  allegations  by
opening a claims process to all putative class members prior to certification of
the class.  In this cure process,  Taco Bell has currently paid out less than $1
million.  On January 26,  1999,  the Court  certified a class of all current and
former  shift  managers  and crew  members  who claim one or more of the alleged
violations.

     On February 10, 1995, a class action  lawsuit,  entitled  Ryder,  et al. v.
Taco  Bell  Corp.  ("Ryder"),  was filed in the  Superior  Court of the State of
Washington for King County on behalf of approximately  16,000 current and former
Taco Bell employees  claiming unpaid wages resulting from alleged uniform,  rest
and meal  period  violations  and  unpaid  overtime.  In April  1996,  the Court
certified the class for purposes of injunctive relief and a finding on the issue
of  liability.  The trial was held during the first quarter of 1997 and resulted
in a  liability  finding.  In August  1997,  the Court  certified  the class for
purposes  of  damages as well.  Prior to the  damages  phase of the  trial,  the
parties reached a court-approved settlement process in April 1998.

     The Company has  provided  for the  estimated  costs of the Bravo and Ryder
litigations, based on a projection of eligible claims, the cost of each eligible
claim and the estimated legal fees incurred by plaintiffs.  The Company believes
the ultimate cost of the Bravo and Ryder cases in excess of the amounts  already
provided  will not be material to its annual  results of  operations,  financial
condition, or cash flows.





     Customers

     The Company's  restaurants  serve a large and diverse  cross-section of the
public and in the course of serving so many  people,  disputes  arise  regarding
products,  service,  accidents  and other  matters  typical of large  restaurant
systems such as those of the Company.

     Trademarks

     The Company has registered  trademarks and service marks, many of which are
of material importance to the Company's business. From time to time, the Company
may  become  involved  in  litigation  to  defend  and  protect  its use of such
registered marks.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     None.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The executive  officers of the Company as of March 15, 1999, and their ages
and current positions as of that date are as follows:

 Name                   Age         Position
 ----                   ---         --------

Andrall E. Pearson      73      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
                                  Officer

David C. Novak          46      Vice Chairman of the Board and President

Robert C. Lowes         53      Chief Financial Officer

Christian L. Campbell   48      Senior Vice President, General Counsel and 
                                  Secretary

Robert L. Carleton      58      Senior Vice President and Controller

Jonathan D. Blum        40      Senior Vice President - Public Affairs

Gregg R. Dedrick        39      Chief People Officer

Sandra S. Wijnberg      42      Senior Vice President - Treasurer

Peter A. Bassi          49      President, Tricon Restaurants International

Charles E. Rawley, III  48      President and Chief Operating Officer, KFC

Michael S. Rawlings     44      President and Chief Concept Officer, Pizza Hut

Peter C. Waller         44      President and Chief Concept Officer, Taco Bell

Peter R. Hearl          47      Executive Vice President, Tricon Restaurants
                                  International

Terry D. Davenport      40      Chief Concept Officer, KFC

Aylwin B. Lewis         44      Chief Operating Officer, Pizza Hut

Thomas E. Davin         41      Chief Operating Officer, Taco Bell





     Andrall E. Pearson became Chairman of the Board of Tricon  effective August
15, 1997, and Chief Executive  Officer of Tricon effective October 21, 1997. Mr.
Pearson previously served as an operating partner of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, a
leveraged  buy-out firm, from 1993 to 1997. He was President and Chief Operating
Officer of PepsiCo.,  Inc. from 1971 through 1984 and served on PepsiCo's  Board
of Directors  for 26 years,  retiring in April 1996.  From 1985 to 1993 he was a
tenured  professor at Harvard  Business  School.  Mr. Pearson is a member of the
Boards of DBT On-Line,  Inc. and Citigroup  Inc. He is also a trustee of the New
York  University  Medical Center and the Good  Samaritan  Medical Center in Palm
Beach, Florida.

     David C. Novak is Vice  Chairman of the Board and  President of Tricon.  He
has served in this position since October 1997. Mr. Novak  previously  served as
Group President and Chief Executive Officer,  KFC and Pizza Hut from August 1996
to July 1997.  Mr.  Novak  joined  Pizza Hut in 1986 as Senior  Vice  President,
Marketing.  In 1990, he became Executive Vice President,  Marketing and National
Sales,  for  Pepsi-Cola  Company.  In 1992 he became  Chief  Operating  Officer,
Pepsi-Cola  North America,  and in 1994 he became  President and Chief Executive
Officer of KFC North America.

         Robert C. Lowes is Chief Financial  Officer of Tricon. He has served in
this position  since August 1997.  From July 1995 to July 1997, Mr. Lowes served
as Chief Executive Officer of Burger King, a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan, a
food  and  consumer  products  company.  Before  becoming  Burger  King's  Chief
Executive  Officer,  Mr. Lowes held several  positions with Grand  Metropolitan,
including Deputy Chief Financial  Officer,  Chief Financial  Officer of its Food
Sector,  and Chief Executive  Officer of its European Foods division.  Mr. Lowes
joined Grand Metropolitan in 1989 from Philip Morris and General Foods, where he
served in a number of  senior  finance  capacities,  including  Vice  President,
Controller  of Philip  Morris,  and Group  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
Officer of Oscar Mayer.

         Christian L.  Campbell is Senior Vice  President,  General  Counsel and
Secretary of Tricon.  He has served in this position since  September 1997. From
1995 to September 1997, Mr.  Campbell  served as Senior Vice President,  General
Counsel and Secretary of Owens  Corning,  a building  products  company.  Before
joining Owens Corning,  Mr. Campbell  served as Vice President,  General Counsel
and  Secretary of Nalco  Chemical  Company in  Naperville,  Illinois,  from 1990
through 1994.

     Robert L. Carleton is Senior Vice  President and  Controller of Tricon.  He
has served in this position since August 1997. Mr. Carleton previously served as
Senior Vice  President  and  Controller  for PepsiCo  from August 1982 to August
1997.

     Jonathan D. Blum is Senior Vice President of Public Affairs for Tricon.  He
has served in this position since July 1997. Mr. Blum previously  served as Vice
President of Public Affairs for Taco Bell, a position that he held since joining
Taco Bell in 1993.

         Gregg R. Dedrick is Chief People  Officer for Tricon.  He has served in
this position  since July 1997.  Mr.  Dedrick  previously  served as Senior Vice
President,  Human  Resources,  for Pizza Hut and KFC, a  position  he assumed in
1996.  Mr.  Dedrick  joined   Pepsi-Cola   Company  in  1981  and  held  various
personnel-related  positions  with  Pepsi-Cola  from 1981 to 1994.  In 1994,  he
became a Vice  President,  Human  Resources for Pizza Hut, and in 1995 he became
Senior Vice President of Human Resources for KFC.

     Sandra S. Wijnberg is Senior Vice  President  and Treasurer of Tricon.  She
has served in this position since August 1997. Ms. Wijnberg previously served as
Senior Vice  President  of Finance and Chief  Financial  Officer of KFC from May
1996 to August  1997.  Ms.  Wijnberg  joined  PepsiCo in 1994 and served as Vice
President,  Corporate Finance and Assistant Treasurer until joining KFC. She was
previously a Principal,  Investment  Banking  Division,  of Morgan Stanley & Co.
from 1985 to 1994, and, prior to that, was an Associate,  Corporate Finance,  at
Shearson Lehman Brothers from 1982 to 1985.



         Peter A. Bassi is President of Tricon Restaurants International. He has
served in this  position  since July 1997.  Mr. Bassi  served as Executive  Vice
President, Asia, of PepsiCo Restaurants International from February 1996 to July
1997.  From 1995 to 1996 he served as Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer  at  PepsiCo  Restaurants  International.   He  served  as  Senior  Vice
President,  Finance and Chief Financial  Officer at Taco Bell from 1987 to 1994.
He joined Pepsi-Cola Company in 1972 and served in various management  positions
at Frito-Lay, Pizza Hut and PepsiCo Food Service International.

     Charles E. Rawley, III is President and Chief Operating Officer of KFC. Mr.
Rawley assumed his position of Chief Operating  Officer in 1995 and President in
1998.  Mr. Rawley joined KFC in 1985 as a Director of  Operations.  He served as
Vice  President  of  Operations  for  the  Southwest,   West,   Northeast,   and
Mid-Atlantic  Divisions from 1988 to 1994, when he became Senior Vice President,
Concept Development for KFC.

     Michael S. Rawlings is President and Chief Concept Officer of Pizza Hut. He
has served in this position  since July 1997.  From 1991 to 1996,  Mr.  Rawlings
served  as  Chairman,  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer  of DDB  Needham
Worldwide  Dallas Group, a position he held following the merger of Tracy-Locke,
Inc. into DDB Needham.  Previously,  Mr.  Rawlings was General Manager and Chief
Operating Officer of Tracy-Locke, Inc., a position he assumed in 1989.

         Peter C. Waller is President and Chief Concept Officer of Taco Bell. He
has served in this  position  since July 1997.  Mr. Waller served as Senior Vice
President  of  Marketing  of Taco  Bell  from  December  1995 to June  1997.  He
previously  held the position of Senior Vice President of Marketing for KFC from
August 1994 to December 1995. He joined PepsiCo in 1990 as Managing Director for
Western Europe,  and subsequently spent two years as Regional Marketing Director
for KFC for the South Pacific and South Africa.

         Peter R.  Hearl is  Executive  Vice  President  of  Tricon  Restaurants
International.  He has served in this position  since  December  1998.  Prior to
that, he was Region Vice President for Tricon Restaurants  International in Asia
Pacific,  a position he assumed in October  1997.  From March 1996 to  September
1997, Mr. Hearl was Regional Vice President for Tricon Restaurants International
with responsibility for Australia,  New Zealand and South Africa. Prior to that,
he was  Regional  Vice  President  for KFC with  responsibility  for the  United
Kingdom,  Ireland and South Africa,  a position he assumed in January 1995. From
September  1993 to December  1994, Mr. Hearl was Regional Vice President for KFC
Europe.

     Terry D. Davenport is Chief Concept Officer and Chief Marketing  Officer of
KFC. He has served in this position  since October 1998.  From September 1997 to
October  1998 he was Chief  Marketing  Officer  of KFC.  From  February  1997 to
September  1997 he was Chief  Marketing  Officer for Einstein  Bagels in Golden,
Colorado.  From  September  1994 to February 1997 he was Sr. Vice  President for
Arby's in Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida. From June 1991 to September 1994 he was Vice
President, Marketing for Taco Bell in Irvine, California.

         Aylwin B. Lewis is Chief Operating  Officer of Pizza Hut. He has served
in this position  since July 1997.  Mr. Lewis  previously  served as Senior Vice
President, Operations for Pizza Hut, a position he assumed in 1996. He served in
various  positions at KFC,  including  Senior  Director of Franchising  and Vice
President of restaurant  Support  Services,  becoming  Division Vice  President,
Operations for KFC in 1993, and Senior Vice  President,  New Concepts for KFC in
1995.  Mr. Lewis joined KFC in 1991 as a Regional General Manager.

     Thomas E. Davin is Chief  Operating  Officer of Taco Bell. He has served in
this position since July 1997. Mr. Davin  previously  served as Vice  President,
Operations  Services for Taco Bell, a position he assumed in 1996.  He served as
Zone Vice President for Taco Bell from 1993 to 1996. Mr. Davin joined PepsiCo in
1991 as Director, Mergers and Acquisitions.

     Executive  officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board
of Directors.





                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder 
          Matters.

     The Company's Common Stock trades under the symbol YUM and is listed on the
New York Stock  Exchange.  The  following  sets forth the high and low composite
closing sale prices by quarter of the  Company's  Common Stock from the Spin-off
date through December 26, 1998.

                                            Sales Price
                                            -----------
                                   High                       Low
                                   ----                       ---
      4th Quarter                $49 1/2                    $33 1/4
      3rd Quarter                 40 3/4                     29 15/16
      2nd Quarter                 33 1/8                     29 9/16
      1st  Quarter                30 5/8                     25 15/16

      4th Quarter                $35 5/16                    28 5/16

     The approximate  number of  shareholders of record of the Company's  common
stock as of March 18, 1999 was 169,000.

     Under the terms of its bank  credit  facility,  the  Company  is  currently
limited in its  ability  to pay  dividends  on common  stock.  As a result,  the
Company does not  presently  intend to pay  dividends on its common  stock,  but
instead to use a portion of  earnings to pay down  existing  debt under the bank
credit facility, and to reinvest remaining earnings back into the business.












Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.

Selected Financial Data
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
(in millions,  except per share and unit amounts)


TRICON  Global   Restaurants,   Inc.  and  Subsidiaries   ("TRICON")  became  an
independent,  publicly  owned company on October 6, 1997 through the spin-off of
the  restaurant  operations  of  its  former  parent,   PepsiCo,  Inc.,  to  its
shareholders.  The historical consolidated financial data for 1997 and the prior
years  above were  prepared  as if we had been an  independent,  publicly  owned
company for all periods presented. The selected financial data should be read in
conjunction  with the Consolidated  Financial  Statements and the Notes thereto.

(1)  Fiscal year 1994 consisted of 53 weeks. The fifty-third week increased 1994
     revenues by $172  million and  earnings by  approximately  $23 million ($14
     million after-tax).
(2)  Includes $54 million ($33 million  after-tax) of favorable  adjustments  to
     our  1997  fourth  quarter  charge  in 1998,  $410  million  ($300  million
     after-tax)  related to our fourth  quarter  charge in 1997 and $457 million
     ($324  million  after-tax)  related to the early  adoption of  Statement of
     Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment Of
     Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" in 1995.
(3)  Includes $11 million ($7 million after-tax) of favorable adjustments to our
     1997 fourth quarter charge in 1998,  $120 million ($125 million  after-tax)
     related to 1997 fourth  quarter  charges and an additional $54 million ($34
     million after-tax) related to the 1997 disposal of the Non-core Businesses.
     1996  includes  $246 million  ($189  million  after-tax)  write-down of our
     Non-core Businesses. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(4)  EPS data is omitted for 1997 and the prior  years as our capital  structure
     as an independent, publicly owned company did not exist.



Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
          Results of Operations.

     Introduction

     TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries (collectively referred to
as "TRICON," the "Company," "we" or "our") became an independent, publicly owned
company on October 6, 1997 (the "Spin-off Date") via a tax free  distribution of
our Common Stock (the  "Distribution"  or "Spin-off") to the shareholders of our
former  parent,  PepsiCo,  Inc.  ("PepsiCo").  See  Notes  1, 2, 9 and 19 to the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.   TRICON  is  comprised  of  the  worldwide
operations  of KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco  Bell (the  "Core  Business(es)").  The
Spin-off  marked our  beginning as a company  focused  solely on the  restaurant
business and our three  well-recognized  brands, which together have more retail
units worldwide than any other single quick service  restaurant ("QSR") company.
Separately,  each  brand  ranks in the top ten among QSR  chains in U.S.  system
sales and units. Our 9,000 plus  international  units make us the second largest
QSR company outside the United States.

     This  Management's  Discussion and Analysis  ("MD&A") is structured in five
major sections. The first section provides an overview and focuses on items that
either  significantly  impact  historical  comparability  or are  anticipated to
significantly  impact our future  operating  results.  The second  analyzes  our
consolidated,  U.S.  and  International  results  of  operations.  The  next two
sections address our consolidated cash flows and financial  condition.  Finally,
there is a discussion of certain market risks and our cautionary statements.

     For purposes of this MD&A, we include the worldwide  operations of our Core
Businesses  and,  through their  respective  dates of disposal in 1997, our U.S.
non-core  businesses.  These  non-core  businesses  consist of California  Pizza
Kitchen, Chevys Mexican Restaurant, D'Angelo's Sandwich Shops, East Side Mario's
and Hot `n Now  (collectively the "Non-core  Businesses").  Where significant to
the discussion, we separately identify the impact of the Non-core Businesses.

     In  our   discussion   volume  is  the  estimated   dollar  effect  of  the
year-over-year  change in customer  transaction  counts.  Effective  net pricing
includes  price  increases/decreases  and the effect of changes in product  mix.
Portfolio  effect  represents  the impact on  operating  results  related to our
refranchising  initiative and closure of  underperforming  stores.  System sales
represents our Core  Businesses'  combined sales of the Company,  joint venture,
franchised  and licensed  units.  Where actual sales data is not  reported,  our
franchised and licensed unit sales are estimated. NM in any table indicates that
the  percentage  is not  considered  meaningful.  B(W)  in  any  table  means  %
better(worse).  In  addition,  throughout  our  discussion,  we  use  the  terms
restaurants, units and stores interchangeably.

     This MD&A should be read in  conjunction  with our  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  on pages 49-82 and the  Cautionary  Statements  on page 47.  Tabular
amounts are displayed in millions except per share and unit count amounts, or as
specifically identified.

     International Operations
     ------------------------

     In 1998, our international  business accounted for 32% of system sales, 24%
of total revenues and 21% of operating  profit before  unallocated and corporate
expenses,  foreign  exchange gains,  facility  actions and unusual  charges.  We
anticipate  that,  despite the inherent  risks and generally  higher general and
administrative  expenses  of  operations,  we will  continue  to  invest  in key
international markets with substantial growth potential.

     During 1998,  recognizing that two-thirds of our international profits were
coming from seven countries,  we decided to  substantially  reduce our number of
primary equity markets from 27 to our ultimate goal of about ten markets. By the
end of 1999, we expect to have only about 16 primary equity markets  outside the
U.S.




     Given the significance of our international  operations, it is important to
consider that movements in currency  exchange rates not only result in a related
translation impact on our earnings,  but also can result in significant economic
impacts  that affect  operating  results.  Changes in  exchange  rates are often
linked to variability in real growth,  inflation,  interest rates,  governmental
actions and other factors which may change consumer  behavior and may impact our
operating  results.  In  addition,  material  changes may cause us to adjust our
financing,  investing  and operating  strategies;  for example,  promotions  and
product strategies,  pricing and decisions concerning capital spending, sourcing
of raw  materials and packaging  (see  discussion on Asia below).  The following
paragraphs  describe  the effect of  currency  exchange  rate  movements  on our
reported results.

     As currency exchange rates change,  translation of the income statements of
our   international   businesses  into  U.S.   dollars  affects   year-over-year
comparability   of  operating   results.   We  identify   material   effects  on
comparability  of  sales  and  operating  profit  arising  from  translation  of
operating results in the MD&A. By definition,  these translation effects exclude
the impact of businesses in highly inflationary countries,  where the accounting
functional currency is the U.S. dollar.

     Changes in currency  exchange  rates can also  result in  reported  foreign
exchange  gains and losses,  which are  included as a component  of our general,
administrative and other expenses. We reported a net foreign exchange gain of $6
million  in 1998,  compared  to losses of $16  million in 1997 and $5 million in
1996.  These reported  amounts include  transaction  and  translation  gains and
losses.  Transaction  gains  and  losses  arise  from  monetary  assets  such as
receivables  and  short-term  interest-bearing  investments  as well as payables
(including  debt)  denominated  in  currencies  other  than  a  business  unit's
functional  currency.  Translation gains and losses arise from  remeasurement of
the monetary  assets and  liabilities of our  businesses in highly  inflationary
countries into U.S. dollars.

     Asian Economic Events
     ---------------------

     The overall economic turmoil and weakening of local currencies  against the
U.S.  dollar  which  began in late  1997  throughout  much of Asia  presented  a
challenging retail  environment  during 1998. The difficult economic  conditions
adversely  affected the U.S.  dollar value of our foreign  currency  denominated
sales and profits ("translation") and reduced consumer demand as seen in reduced
transaction  counts,  both of which  impacted our 1998  consolidated  results of
operations.

     Asian  operations  in such  countries as China,  Japan,  Korea,  Singapore,
Taiwan  and  Thailand,   among  others,   comprised  approximately  34%  of  our
international  U.S. dollar translated system sales in 1998, versus 36% for 1997.
Asian system sales declined $254 million or 10% in 1998. Excluding the impact of
foreign currency  translation,  Asian system sales increased 8% in 1998.  System
sales increases in China and Taiwan were partially  offset by declines in Japan,
Korea and South Asia.

     Our Company revenues from Asia declined $18 million or 3% in 1998. Included
in our  revenues are  franchise  fees,  which  decreased  $13  million,  or 18%.
Excluding the negative impact of foreign currency translation, our revenues from
Asia increased  approximately 16% in 1998. New unit development in China, Taiwan
and Korea led the increase,  partially offset by volume declines in Korea, China
and Thailand.

     Our  operating  profits  from Asia  declined  $27  million  or 30% in 1998.
Excluding  the  impact  of  foreign  currency  translation,   operating  profits
decreased 7% in 1998.  Lower margins in Korea and volume  declines in both Korea
and China were  partially  offset by new unit growth as well as increased  store
margins in China and Taiwan.



     The discussion  above reflects a change in the  methodology we have used in
1998 to calculate the foreign currency  translation  effect attributed to Asia's
system sales,  revenues and operating profits in previous MD&As. We believe this
revised  methodology,  which is consistent with the method we have  historically
used for total  international,  is  preferable  because it results in analytical
relationships that are more consistent with our local currency operating results
in Asia. Under the revised method,  the decline in operating profits  attributed
to the effect of foreign currency translation is $7 million less than previously
disclosed.

     Selected highlights of our recent operating results in Asia are as follows:


(a)  Excludes  facility  actions net gain  (loss),  unusual  charges and foreign
     exchange gains (losses).

     In 1999,  we will  continue to work with our suppliers to reduce food costs
and focus on increasing our everyday value offerings,  and we expect to continue
to cautiously  seek out  investment  opportunities  in Asia,  drawing on lessons
learned  there,  and from our  experience  in other  countries  which have faced
similar problems in the past such as Mexico and Poland.  The complexities of the
international  environment  in which we operate make it difficult to  accurately
predict  the  ongoing  effect of  currency  movements.  Actual  effects  will be
reported in our financial statements as they become known. However, we currently
expect our sales and operating profits in Asia will improve in 1999 aided by the
reduction of certain regional support costs and more stable sales trends.

     Year 2000
     ---------

     We have  established  an  enterprise-wide  plan to prepare our  information
technology  systems (IT) and  non-information  technology  systems with embedded
technology  applications (ET) for the Year 2000 issue, to reasonably assure that
our critical business partners are prepared and to plan for business  continuity
as we enter the coming millennium.

     Our plan  encompasses  the use of both  internal and external  resources to
identify,  correct and test systems for Year 2000 readiness.  External resources
include nationally  recognized  consulting firms and other contract resources to
supplement available internal resources.

     The phases of our plan - awareness,  assessment,  remediation,  testing and
implementation  - are  currently  expected to cost $62 to $65 million  from 1997
through  completion  in 2000.  The new  estimate  is  higher  than our  original
estimate  of  $40  to  $45  million.  Our  original  estimate  did  not  include
approximately $7 million in costs related to the accelerated  implementation  of
replacement  systems.  Additionally,  we have  increased  our  estimates for the
approximate costs of remediating  subsequently  identified  applications and the
greater than  anticipated  complexity  of certain  remediation  and  contingency
planning  activities.  Our plan contemplates our own IT/ET as well as assessment
and  contingency  planning  relative to Year 2000 business risks inherent in our
material third party  relationships.  The total cost represents less than 20% of
our  total  estimated  information  technology  related  expenses  over the plan
period.  We have incurred  approximately  $35 million from  inception of planned
actions through December 26, 1998 of which $31 million was incurred during 1998.
We expect to 




incur  approximately $25 million in 1999 with some additional problem resolution
spending  in 2000.  All costs  related to our Year 2000 plan are  expected to be
funded through cash flow from operations.

     a.  IT/ET State of Readiness

     We  have  now  completed  our  inventory  process  of  hardware  (including
desktops),   software  (third  party  and  internally  developed)  and  embedded
technology  applications.  Completion  of the  inventory  process  significantly
increased the previously reported tabulations of applications, as defined below,
as more  complete  counts,  primarily  regarding  desktop,  hardware and ET were
obtained. We have also implemented monitoring procedures designed to insure that
new IT/ET investment is Year 2000 compliant.

     Based on this inventory,  we identified the critical IT/ET applications and
are in the process of determining the Year 2000  compliance  status of the IT/ET
through  third  party  vendor  inquiry or  internal  processes.  We expect to be
substantially  complete with the  conversion  (which  includes  replacement  and
remediation)  and unit testing of the majority of critical  U.S.  systems in the
second  quarter of 1999.  Although our original  timeline has been  extended for
approximately  ten critical  applications,  we now expect to be able to convert,
consolidate,  or replace all such  applications  by late summer.  This timetable
reflects certain delays attributable to identified  incremental  complexities of
the  remediation  processes  as  well  as  slippage  in  the  execution  of  our
remediation plan.  Further delays on these efforts or additional  slippage could
be  detrimental  to our overall  state of  readiness.  Our  international  IT/ET
efforts, as expected, have continued to lag behind our U.S. efforts. However, we
believe our  business  risk is minimized by the  predominant  use of  unmodified
third  party IT in our  international  business  for which  Year 2000  compliant
versions  already  exist.  Current plans call for timely  conversion of critical
international  systems to these compliant versions.  We will continue to closely
monitor  international  progress.  We expect to continue  integration testing on
remediated,  replaced and consolidated U.S. and international systems throughout
1999.

     The following table  identifies by category and status the major identified
IT/ET applications at December 26, 1998:



Note:
     We  based  the   tabulations   on  the  total   inventory   of   identified
     "applications"  that was  completed at the end of 1998. We have defined the
     term  applications  (as used in this  Year  2000  discussion)  to  describe
     separately  identifiable  groups of  programs,  hardware or ET which can be
     both logically segregated by business purpose and separately unit tested as
     to performance  of a single  business  function.  We will either replace or
     retire "Not Compliant"  applications  before Year 2000.  Applications  have
     been  prioritized  and are being  remediated  based on  expected  impact of
     non-remediation.  Of the remaining  472  "In-Process"  applications  in the
     Internally  Developed  category,   which  by  definition  require  internal
     remediation, less than half have been identified as critical.
  



     b.  Material Third Party Relationships

     We believe that our critical  third party  relationships  can be subdivided
generally  into  suppliers,  banks,  franchisees  and  other  service  providers
(primarily  data  exchange  partners).  We  completed  an  inventory of U.S. and
international   restaurant   suppliers  and  have  mailed   letters   requesting
information  regarding  their  Year  2000  status.  We  are in  the  process  of
collecting the responses from the suppliers and assessing their Year 2000 risks.
Of approximately 550 suppliers considered  critical,  approximately 10% are high
risk based on their  responses and  approximately  42% have not yet responded to
inquiries to date. We expect to continue follow-up, but by mid-1999 we expect to
source  through  alternate  compliant  vendors where  possible.  We will develop
contingency plans in the first half of 1999 for U.S. and international suppliers
that we believe have substantial Year 2000 operational risks.

     We have sent letters to or obtained other information  regarding compliance
information  from our primary lending and cash management  banks  ("Relationship
Banks"). We will develop contingency plans by early 1999 for all banks that have
not submitted written representation of Year 2000 readiness. We have limited the
following table to Relationship Banks as we are currently preparing an inventory
of U.S.  depository banks and have just completed the inventory of international
banks responsible for processing  restaurant deposits and disbursements.  We are
following  the process  used for  Relationship  Banks to evaluate  the Year 2000
risks for the U.S. depository and international banks.

     We have approximately 1,200 U.S. and 950 international franchisees. We have
sent  information  to all  U.S.  and  international  franchisees  regarding  the
business risks associated with Year 2000. In addition,  we provided sample IT/ET
project plans and a report of the compliance status in Company-owned restaurants
to the U.S.  franchisees.  In the early part of 1999, we plan to mail letters to
all U.S. and international  franchisees  requesting  information regarding their
Year 2000  status.  In the U.S.,  we intend  to  accumulate  survey  data and an
inventory of point-of-sale  hardware and software in use by our franchisees.  We
then  intend to  contact  POS  vendors  to assist  the  franchise  community  in
determining  Year 2000  compliance.  Outside the U.S.,  our  regional  franchise
offices will be conducting the franchise survey.

     We have  identified  third  party  companies  that  provide  critical  data
exchange  services and mailed letters to these  companies  requesting  Year 2000
status.  We will develop  contingency  plans for companies  that we believe have
significant Year 2000 operational risks. Additionally,  we are in the process of
identifying  all other third party  companies  that  provide  business  critical
services.  We are planning to follow the same process used for the data exchange
service providers.

     The following table indicates by type of third party risk the status of the
readiness process:

                             Responses Received     Responses Not Yet Received
                             -------------------    ---------------------------

     Suppliers                       314                        231
     Relationship Banks               43                         34
     Service Providers                44                         45
                             -------------------    ---------------------------
                                     401                        310
                             ===================    ===========================

     Note:    As we have  not yet  requested  information  from  our  individual
              franchisees  regarding  Year 2000  compliance  status,  this table
              contains no information regarding our franchisees. In addition, we
              have  only  included  Relationship  Banks due to  incomplete  data
              regarding depository and payroll banks.




     The forward-looking  nature and lack of historical  precedent for Year 2000
issues present a difficult disclosure challenge. Only one thing is certain about
the impact of Year 2000 - it is difficult to predict with  certainty  what truly
will  happen  after  December  31,  1999.  We have based our Year 2000 costs and
timetables  on our best  current  estimates,  which we  derived  using  numerous
assumptions  of future events  including the continued  availability  of certain
resources and other factors.  However,  we cannot guarantee that these estimates
will be achieved  and actual  results  could differ  materially  from our plans.
Given our best efforts and execution of remediation, replacement and testing, it
is still  possible  that  there  will be  disruptions  and  unexpected  business
problems  during  the  early  months of 2000.  We  anticipate  making  diligent,
reasonable  efforts  to assess  Year 2000  readiness  of our  critical  business
partners and will ultimately  develop  contingency  plans for business  critical
systems  prior to the end of 1999.  However,  we are  heavily  dependent  on the
continued  normal  operations of not only our key suppliers of chicken,  cheese,
beef,  tortillas  and  other  raw  materials  and our  major  food and  supplies
distributor,  but  also on  other  entities  such  as  lending,  depository  and
disbursement banks and third party  administrators of our benefit plans. Despite
our diligent  preparation,  unanticipated  third party failures,  general public
infrastructure failures, or our failure to successfully conclude our remediation
efforts  as  planned  could have a  material  adverse  impact on our  results of
operations,  financial condition or cash flows in 1999 and beyond.  Inability of
our  franchisees  to remit  franchise fees on a timely basis or lack of publicly
available  hard currency or credit card  processing  capability  supporting  our
retail sales stream could also have  material  adverse  impact on our results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     1997 Fourth Quarter Charge 
     --------------------------

     In the fourth  quarter of 1997, we recorded a $530 million  unusual  charge
($425 million after-tax). The charge included estimates for (1) costs of closing
underperforming  stores during 1998, primarily at Pizza Hut and internationally;
(2) reduction to fair market value,  less costs to sell, of the carrying amounts
of certain  restaurants  we intended to  refranchise  in 1998; (3) impairment of
certain  restaurants  intended to be used in the  business;  (4)  impairment  of
certain  joint  venture  investments  to be  retained;  and (5) costs of related
personnel  reductions.  Of the $530 million charge,  approximately  $401 million
related  to  asset  writedowns  and   approximately   $129  million  related  to
liabilities,  primarily  occupancy-related  costs and, to a much lesser  extent,
severance.  The liabilities were expected to be settled from cash flows provided
by operations. Through December 26, 1998, the amounts utilized apply only to the
actions covered by the charge.

     The charge  included  provisions  related  to 1,392  units  expected  to be
refranchised  or  closed.  Our prior  disclosure  of 1,407 has been  revised  to
eliminate a duplication  in the unit count only of 15 units to be  refranchised.
Following is a  reconciliation  of the 1,392 units included in the charge to the
remaining units at December 26, 1998:

                                                                Total Units
                                    Units Expected to be        Included in
                                   Closed      Refranchised     the Charge
                                 ----------    ------------    -----------
Units at December 27, 1997           740           652           1,392
Units disposed of                   (426)         (320)           (746)
Units retained                       (88)          (20)           (108)
Change in method of disposal        (109)          109               -
Other                                  6           (13)             (7)
                                 ----------    ------------    -----------
Units at December 26, 1998           123           408             531
                                 ==========    ============    ===========

     Although we originally  expected to refranchise or close all 1,392 units by
year-end 1998, the disposal of 531 units was delayed.  This was primarily due to
longer  than  expected  periods to locate  qualified  buyers,  particularly  for
international  units,  extended  negotiations  with some  lessors and  execution
delays in consolidating  the operations of certain units to be closed with other
units that will continue to operate. We expect to dispose of the remaining units
during 1999.




     As we indicated in our third quarter 1998 Form 10-Q, we re-evaluated during
the fourth  quarter of 1998 our prior  estimates  of the fair  market  values of
units to be  refranchised  or closed and  re-evaluated  whether to sell or close
certain  other  units  originally  expected  to be  disposed  of. We made  these
re-evaluations  based primarily on the improved  performance of Pizza Hut in the
U.S.  Largely  as a result of  decisions  to retain  certain  stores  originally
expected to be disposed of,  better-than-expected  proceeds from  refranchisings
and favorable lease settlements on certain closed store leases, we have reversed
$65 million of the charge ($40 million  after-tax) in 1998. These reversals have
increased 1998 facility actions net gain by $54 million ($33 million  after-tax)
and decreased 1998 unusual charges by $11 million ($7 million after-tax).

     Of  the  $530  million  charge,   approximately  $140  million  represented
impairment charges for certain  restaurants  intended to be used in the business
and for certain joint venture investments to be retained, which were recorded as
reductions  of the  carrying  value of those  assets.  Below is a summary of the
other activity  related to the 1997 fourth  quarter charge through  December 26,
1998:


                              Asset Valuation                           
                                 Allowances         Liabilities          Total
                              ----------------    --------------   -------------
December 27, 1997             $      261          $      129       $      390
Utilizations                        (131)                (54)            (185)
(Income) expense impacts:
  Completed transactions             (27)                 (7)             (34)
  Decision changes                   (22)                (17)             (39)
  Estimate changes                    15                  (7)               8
Other                                  1                   -                1
                              ----------------    --------------   -------------
December 26, 1998             $       97          $       44       $      141
                              ================    ==============   =============

     We believe that the remaining  amounts are adequate to complete our current
plan of disposal. However, actual results could differ from our estimates.

     We believe our worldwide  business,  upon completion of the actions covered
by the charge,  will be  significantly  more  focused and  better-positioned  to
deliver  consistent  growth in operating  profit  before  facility  actions.  We
estimate  that the favorable  impact on 1998  operating  profit before  facility
actions related to the 1997 fourth quarter charge was  approximately $64 million
($42 million after-tax),  including $33 million ($21 million after-tax) from the
suspension of depreciation  and  amortization in 1998 for the stores included in
the charge.

     As anticipated in our 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the 1998 benefits of
our 1997 fourth quarter charge of $64 million were largely offset by incremental
spending  related to our Year 2000  issues of $27 million and the decline in our
Asian businesses of $27 million in 1998 compared to 1997.

     See  Note  4  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
disclosures  related to the  components of the 1997 fourth quarter charge and to
all facility actions.

     Euro Conversion
     ---------------

     On January 1, 1999,  eleven of the fifteen member countries of the European
Economic and Monetary Union ("EMU")  adopted the Euro as a common legal currency
and fixed  conversion  rates were  established.  From that date through June 30,
2002,  participating countries will maintain both legacy currencies and the Euro
as legal tender. Beginning January 1, 2002, new Euro-denominated bills and coins
will be issued and a  transition  period of up to six months will begin in which
legacy currencies will be removed from circulation.




     We have  Company-owned  and  franchised  businesses in the adopting  member
countries, which are preparing for the conversion.  Expenditures associated with
conversion efforts to date have been  insignificant.  We currently estimate that
our spending over the ensuing three-year transition period will be approximately
$16 million,  related to the conversion in the EMU member  countries in which we
operate stores. These expenditures  primarily relate to capital expenditures for
new  point-of-sale  and  back-of-house  hardware  and  software.  We expect that
adoption of the Euro by the U.K. would significantly  increase this estimate due
to the size of our businesses there relative to our aggregate  businesses in the
adopting member countries in which we operate.

     The speed of ultimate consumer acceptance of and our competitor's responses
to the Euro are currently unknown and may impact our existing plans. However, we
know that,  from a  competitive  perspective,  we will be required to assess the
impacts of product  price  transparency,  potentially  revise  product  bundling
strategies  and  create  Euro-friendly  price  points  prior to 2002.  We do not
believe  that  these  activities  will have  sustained  adverse  impacts  on our
businesses.  Although the Euro does offer  certain  benefits to our treasury and
procurement activities, these are not currently anticipated to be significant.

     We currently  anticipate that our suppliers and distributors  will continue
to invoice  us in legacy  currencies  until  late 2001.  We expect to begin dual
pricing in our  restaurants in 2001. We expect to compensate  employees in Euros
beginning in 2002.  We believe that the most  critical  activity  regarding  the
conversion  for our  businesses  is the  completion of the rollout of Euro-ready
point-of-sale  equipment  and  software by the end of 2001.  Our  current  plans
should  enable  us to be  Euro-compliant  prior to the  requirements  for  these
activities.  Any delays in our ability to complete our plans,  or in the ability
of our key suppliers to be Euro-compliant,  could have a material adverse impact
on our results of operations, financial conditions or cash flows.

     Other Factors Affecting Comparability

     Unusual Charges
     ---------------

     In 1998,  we had unusual  charges of $15  million  ($3  million  after-tax)
versus unusual charges in 1997 of $184 million ($165 million after-tax).

     Unusual  charges in 1998  included  the  following:  (1) an increase in the
estimated costs of settlement of certain wage and hour litigation and associated
defense and other costs incurred;  (2) severance and other exit costs related to
strategic  decisions  to  streamline  the  infrastructure  of our  international
businesses;  (3) favorable adjustments to our 1997 fourth quarter charge related
to anticipated actions that were not taken,  primarily severance;  (4) writedown
to estimated fair market value less costs to sell of our minority  interest in a
privately held non-core business, previously carried at cost, now held for sale;
and (5) reversals of certain valuation allowances and lease liabilities relating
to  better-than-expected  proceeds from the sale of properties and settlement of
lease  liabilities  associated  with  properties  retained  upon  the  sale of a
Non-core Business.

     Unusual  charges in 1997  included the  following:  (1) $120 million  ($125
million after-tax) of unusual asset impairment and severance charges included in
our 1997 fourth quarter charge  described  above;  (2) charges to further reduce
the  carrying  amounts of Non-core  Businesses  held for  disposal to  estimated
market  value,  less costs to sell;  and (3) charges  relating to the  estimated
costs of  settlement  of certain  wage and hour  litigation  and the  associated
defense and other costs incurred.




     Accounting Changes
     ------------------

     In 1999,  our financial  results will be impacted by a number of accounting
changes.  These changes,  which we believe are material in the  aggregate,  fall
into three categories:

     o    required changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"),
     o    discretionary  methodology  changes  implemented  to  more  accurately
          measure certain liabilities and
     o    policy changes driven by our financial standardization project.

     Following  is a discussion  of those  changes  which have  affected or will
affect comparability.

     a.  Required Changes in GAAP

     In 1999, we will adopt Statement of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), "Accounting
for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This
Statement  will require us to capitalize  approximately  $12 million of costs of
internal  software  development  and of third party  software  purchases that we
would  have  expensed  previously.   Amortization  or  depreciation  of  amounts
capitalized  will be dependent on the useful  lives of the  underlying  software
assets.

     We adopted  Emerging  Issues Task Force  Issue No.  97-11  ("EITF  97-11"),
"Accounting  for Internal Costs Relating to Real Estate  Property  Acquisitions"
upon its  issuance  in March  1998.  EITF  97-11  limits the  capitalization  of
internal real estate  acquisition  costs to those  site-specific  costs incurred
from the point in time that the real estate acquisition is probable. We consider
acquisition  of the  property  probable  upon  final site  approval.  EITF 97-11
resulted  in  approximately  $6 million  ($3 million  after-tax)  of  additional
expense in the last three  quarters  of 1998.  Amounts of  internal  real estate
acquisition  costs  capitalized in 1999 will also be further  reduced from their
1998 levels by a discretionary  policy change we have adopted to limit the types
of  costs  eligible  for  capitalization  to those  direct  costs  described  as
capitalizable  in SOP 98-1. The combined  incremental  impact on 1999 results of
operations  for the  application of EITF 97-11 and the policy change is expected
to be approximately $4 million ($3 million after-tax),  almost 50% of which will
impact the first quarter.

     b.  Discretionary Methodology Changes

     In 1999, we will refine and enhance our existing actuarial  methodology for
estimating the self-insured portion of our casualty losses. Our current practice
is to increase our independent actuary's ultimate loss projections, which have a
51% confidence level, by a consistent percentage to improve the confidence level
of our loss  estimates.  Confidence  level means the likelihood  that our actual
losses  will be equal  to or below  those  estimates.  Based on our  independent
actuary's opinion, our current practice produces a very conservative  confidence
factor at a higher level than our target of 75%.  Our actuary  believes our 1999
change  will  produce  estimates  at our 75%  target  confidence  level for each
self-insured year. We estimate this change in methodology will increase our 1999
results of operations by $5 million ($3 million after-tax). The majority of this
increase will occur in our first 1999  actuarial  evaluation  which we currently
expect to recognize in the first quarter.

     Accounting for pensions  requires us to develop an assumed interest rate on
securities with which the pension  liabilities could be effectively  settled. In
estimating  this  discount  rate,  we look at rates of  return  on  high-quality
corporate  fixed  income  securities  currently  available  and  expected  to be
available  during the period to the maturity of the pension  benefits.  As it is
impractical to find an investment  portfolio which exactly matches the estimated
payment stream of the pension benefits,  we often have projected short-term cash
surpluses.  Effective for 1999, we changed our method of determining the pension
discount rate to better reflect the assumed investment  strategies we would most
likely use to invest any short-term cash surpluses.  




Previously,  we assumed that all short-term  cash surpluses would be invested in
U.S.  government  securities.  Our new  methodology  assumes that our investment
strategies  would be equally  divided  between U.S.  government  securities  and
high-quality  corporate  fixed income  securities.  The change in methodology is
estimated to favorably  impact 1999 results of  operations by  approximately  $6
million ($4 million after-tax).

     c.  Business Standardization Changes

     In 1999, we will begin the  standardization  of our U.S.  people  policies,
which will require changes by certain of our  businesses.  Most of these changes
are  not  expected  to  have a  significant  financial  impact.  As part of this
process,  our  vacation  policies  will  be  conformed  to a  fiscal-year-based,
earn-as-you-go,  use-or-lose  policy from policies under which employees' vested
vacations  were  attributable  to  services  rendered in prior  years.  Over the
two-year implementation period for this vacation policy change, the reduction of
our accrued  vacation  liabilities  could be as much as $20  million.  The total
reduction  and the portion  attributable  to 1999 are not  determinable  at this
time, as final decisions  regarding specific transition rules including possible
vacation  buyouts  for some of the  affected  employee  groups have not yet been
made.

     In  addition,  in 1999,  we will focus on  standardizing  all  systems  and
accounting practices for our U.S. businesses.  We currently estimate the results
of standardizing our accounting  practices will not have a significant impact on
our results of operations.

     Store Portfolio Perspectives
     ----------------------------

     Beginning in 1995, we have been working to reduce our share of total system
units by selling our  restaurants  to existing and new  franchisees  where their
expertise  can  be  leveraged  to  improve  our  concepts'  overall  operational
performance,  while retaining our ownership of key markets. In addition, we also
began  an  aggressive   program  to  close  our   underperforming   stores.  Our
portfolio-balancing  activity  has  reduced,  and will  continue to reduce,  our
reported  revenues  and  increase  the  importance  of  system  sales  as a  key
performance  measure.  Refranchising  at  appropriate  prices  frees up invested
capital while continuing to generate  franchise fees, thereby improving returns.
The  impact of  refranchising  gains is  expected  to  decrease  over time as we
approach a Company/franchise balance more consistent with our major competitors.
The following table summarizes our  refranchising  activities over the last four
years:


     (a)  Includes unfavorable  adjustments to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of
          $2 million. Excluding the adjustments, refranchising net gain was $281
          million.
     (b)  Includes a 1997 fourth quarter  charge of $136 million.  Excluding the
          charge, the 1997 refranchising net gain was $248 million.




     The following table  summarizes our store closure  activities over the last
four years:

     (a)  Includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of
          $56 million. Excluding the adjustments,  1998 store closure costs were
          $29 million.
     (b)  Includes a 1997 fourth quarter  charge of $213 million.  Excluding the
          charge, 1997 store closure costs were $35 million.

     Our  ownership  percentage  (including  joint  venture  units)  of our Core
Businesses'  total  system units  decreased  by almost 6 percentage  points from
year-end 1997 and by 12 percentage  points from year-end 1996 to 32% at December
26, 1998.  This  reduction  was a result of our  portfolio  initiatives  and the
relative  number of new  points of  distribution  added and units  closed by our
franchisees and licensees and by us.

     Additional Factors Expected to Impact 1999 Comparisons with 1998
     ----------------------------------------------------------------

     Our facility actions net gain was $221 million ($129 million  after-tax) in
1998 excluding favorable adjustments to our 1997 fourth quarter charge. Facility
actions net loss (gain) includes refranchising gains or losses, costs of closing
underperforming  stores and  impairment  charges  for  restaurants  we intend to
continue  to use in the  business  or to  close in a  future  quarter.  Facility
actions  net  gain in 1999 is  expected  to be half  the  level  of the net gain
recognized in 1998.  However,  if market conditions are favorable,  we expect to
sell more than the 800-900 units we have currently forecasted which would impact
the amount of our net gain for 1999.

     We are  phasing  in certain  structural  changes  to our  Executive  Income
Deferral  Program  ("EID")  during 1999 and 2000 which are further  discussed in
Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  One such 1999 change requires
all subsequent  payouts under the EID to be made only in our Common Stock rather
than cash or Common Stock at our option.  This  restriction  applies only if the
participant's  original  deferrals were invested in discounted phantom shares of
our Common  Stock.  Previously,  for  accounting  purposes,  we were required to
assume the  payment  was made in cash.  In 1999,  we will no longer  expense the
appreciation,  if any,  attributable to the investments in these phantom shares.
If this  change  had been in effect  from the  beginning  of 1998,  general  and
administrative  expenses would have been  approximately  $10 million ($6 million
after-tax)  lower than  reported.  The 1999 impact of the change is dependent on
movements in the market price of our Common Stock and the effect of forfeitures,
if any, and cannot currently be estimated.

     In 1999, we expect to incur approximately $5 million ($3 million after-tax)
of  additional  charges  related to our  unusual  charge for our 1998  strategic
decision to streamline our international  businesses. In 1999, we also expect to
incur approximately $3 million ($2 million after-tax) of expenses related to the
start-up of a unified food service  purchasing  cooperative and costs associated
with reducing the  workforce in our internal  purchasing  function.  In 1998, we
incurred $2 million ($1 million after-tax) related to the start-up of the co-op.

     In 1998, we completed our relocation of our Wichita,  Kansas  operations to
other facilities.  The total cost we incurred in 1998 of $14 million ($9 million
after-tax) included termination benefits, relocation costs, early retirement and
other expenses related to this relocation.  Due to contractual disputes with the
proposed buyer,  the expected fourth quarter 1998 sale of the facility at a gain
to this  buyer did not occur and is not  considered  imminent.  We  continue  to
expect  to sell the  facility  at a price  which  should  at least  recover  its
carrying  amount,  but  cannot  estimate  either  the  amount  or  timing of any
potential gain at this time.




     Certain cost recovery  agreements  with  Ameriserve and PepsiCo reduced our
1998 general, administrative and other ("G&A") costs by approximately $8 million
($5 million after-tax). These agreements were terminated during 1998.

     Results of Operations

     Our Spin-off in 1997,  our 1997 fourth quarter  charge,  the impacts of the
disposal of our Non-core Businesses and fluctuations in the number and amount of
gains  related  to  refranchised   stores  represent   significant  items  which
complicate year-over-year comparisons.

     Prior to October 7, 1997, our historical financial statements were impacted
by our lack of history as an  independent,  publicly owned company.  The amounts
for certain items,  specifically general and administrative  expenses,  interest
expense  and income  taxes,  included  in our  historical  reported  results for
periods prior to the Spin-off, include allocations or computations which are not
indicative of the amounts we would have incurred if we had been an  independent,
publicly  owned  company  during  all  periods  presented.  See  Note  2 to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Additionally,  comparative information is impacted by the operations of and
disposal  charges  related to our Non-core  Businesses in 1997.  These  disposal
charges  included an estimated  provision  for all expected  future  liabilities
associated  with the disposal of our Non-core  Businesses.  We were  required to
retain these liabilities as part of the Spin-off. Our best estimates of all such
liabilities  have  been  included  in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Financial
Statements. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Actual amounts
incurred may ultimately  differ from these  estimates.  However,  we believe the
amounts, if any, in excess of our previously recorded liabilities are not likely
to have a  material  adverse  effect on our  results  of  operations,  financial
condition or cash flow.

     Following is a summary of the results of the operations and disposal of our
Non-core Businesses:

                                                      1997             1996
                                                   ------------     ------------
     Revenues                                      $    268         $    394
     % of total revenues                                3%               4%
     Non-core Businesses operating 
      profit (loss), before disposal charges       $     13         $    (10)
     Unusual disposal charges                            54              246
     Net loss                                           (26)            (200)




     Worldwide Results of Operations

     (1)  Excludes the effects of the 1997 fourth quarter charge.
     (2)  Computed based on adjusted amounts, if applicable.
     (3)  Excluding the special 1997 KFC renewal fees,  1998 and 1997  increased
          12% and 11% over prior year, respectively.
     (4)  The shares  used to compute  pro forma loss per basic share for the 52
          weeks  ending  December  27, 1997  assumes  the 152 million  shares of
          TRICON Common Stock issued on October 7, 1997 had been outstanding for
          the entire year.
     (5)  The shares used to compute pro forma  earnings  per diluted  share for
          1997 are the same as those used in 1998,  as our capital  structure as
          an independent,  publicly owned company did not exist until October 7,
          1997.




Worldwide Restaurant Unit Activity

(a)  Includes 166 Company and 4 Joint Venture units approved for closure but not
     yet closed at December  26,  1998,  of which 123 were  included in our 1997
     fourth quarter charge.


     System sales  increased $155 million or 1% in 1998.  Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased by $871 million
or 4%.  The  increase  reflected  the  development  of new units,  primarily  by
franchisees and licensees and positive same store sales growth. U.S. development
was primarily at Taco Bell and international  development was primarily in Asia.
This growth in system sales was partially offset by store closures.

     System sales  increased $185 million or 1% in 1997.  Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased $525 million or
3%. New unit growth by  franchisees  and licensees as well as new Company units,
primarily in international markets, was partially offset by store closures.

     Revenues  decreased  $1.2 billion or 13% in 1998.  Company sales  decreased
$1.3 billion or 14%.  Included in 1997  revenues  were the Non-core  Businesses'
revenues of $268  million.  Excluding  the negative  impact of foreign  currency
translation and revenues from the Non-core  Businesses,  revenues decreased $755
million or 8% and Company  sales  decreased  $821 million or 9%. The decrease in
Company sales was primarily due to the portfolio  effect partially offset by new
unit development and effective net pricing. Franchise and license fees increased
$43 million or 7% in 1998.  Excluding  the negative  impact of foreign  currency
translation and the special 1997 KFC renewal fees of $24 million,  franchise and
license fees increased $89 million or 16%. The increase was primarily  driven by
units  acquired from us and new unit  development  primarily in Asia and at Taco
Bell in the  U.S.,  partially  offset  by  store  closures  by  franchisees  and
licensees.

     Revenues decreased $547 million or 5% in 1997. Company sales decreased $626
million or 6% in 1997. The Non-core Businesses contributed $268 million and $394
million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. Excluding the negative impact of foreign
currency  translation,  revenues  decreased $465 million or 5% and Company sales
decreased $555 million or 6%. The decrease in Company sales was primarily due to
the  portfolio  effects  partially  offset  by  higher  effective  net  pricing.
Franchise and license fees  increased $79 million or 16% in 1997.  Excluding the
negative impact of foreign currency translation and the special 1997 KFC renewal
fees of $24 million,  franchise  and license fees  increased $65 million or 13%.
The increase was primarily  driven by new unit  development  and units  acquired
from us, partially offset by store closures by franchisees and licensees.




Restaurant Margin - Worldwide

                                              1998        1997         1996
                                            ---------   ---------    --------

Company sales                                 100.0%     100.0%       100.0%
Food and paper                                 32.1       32.4         33.0
Payroll and employee benefits                  28.6       28.7         28.7
Occupancy and other operating expenses         25.8       27.3         27.8
                                            ---------   ---------    --------
Restaurant margin                              13.5%      11.6%        10.5%
                                            =========   =========    ========

     Our  restaurant  margin as a percent  of sales  increased  almost 190 basis
points for 1998. Portfolio effect contributed  approximately 65 basis points and
the  suspension of  depreciation  and  amortization  relating to our 1997 fourth
quarter charge  contributed  approximately  55 basis points to our  improvement.
Excluding the portfolio  effect and the benefits of the fourth  quarter  charge,
our restaurant margin increased  approximately 70 basis points.  The improvement
was largely due to effective net pricing in excess of increased costs, primarily
labor. Labor increases were driven by higher wage rates, primarily the September
1997 minimum wage increase, an increase in the management complement in our Taco
Bell restaurants and lower favorable insurance-related  adjustments in 1998. The
decrease in occupancy and other operating  expenses related  primarily to higher
spending in 1997 on improving  store  condition and quality  initiatives at Taco
Bell and Pizza Hut as well as an increase in higher favorable  insurance-related
adjustments in 1998.  These favorable  items were partially  offset by increased
store refurbishment expenses at KFC in 1998.

     Our restaurant  margin as a percent of sales  increased  approximately  110
basis points for 1997.  The increase in restaurant  margin in 1997 was partially
driven by effective net pricing in excess of increased  costs,  primarily labor.
Portfolio  effect  contributed  approximately  55 basis  points and the Non-core
Businesses  contributed  approximately  20 basis points of our  improvement.  In
1997,  we also  benefited  from  lower  commodity  costs  primarily  related  to
favorable  cheese and chicken prices.  This margin increase was partially offset
by lower volumes.

General, Administrative and Other Expenses


     Our core G&A increased $3 million in 1998.  The increase  reflected  higher
investment  spending  offset by the favorable  impacts of stores sold or closed,
decreased  restaurant  support center and field  operating  overhead and foreign
currency  translation.  Our  investment  spending  consisted  primarily of costs
related to  spending  on Year 2000  compliance  and  remediation  efforts of $31
million in 1998 versus $4 million in 1997,  along with the costs to relocate our
processing center from Wichita to other existing  restaurant  support centers of
$14 million. In addition, we experienced increased administrative expenses as an
independent,  publicly owned company and incurred additional expenses related to
continuing  efforts to improve and  standardize  administrative  and  accounting
systems.




     Included  in our 1997 and 1996  core G&A were  PepsiCo  allocations  of $37
million and $53 million, respectively,  reflecting a portion of PepsiCo's shared
administrative   expenses   prior  to  the  Spin-off.   The  allocated   PepsiCo
administrative  expenses were based on PepsiCo's total corporate  administrative
expenses  using a ratio of our revenues to PepsiCo's  revenues.  We believe this
basis of allocation was reasonable  based on the facts  available at the date of
such allocation.

     However, our ongoing G&A as an independent,  publicly owned company in 1998
exceeded the annualized  amount of the 1997 PepsiCo  allocation by approximately
$30  million.  The  1998  increase  was  partially  offset  by  the  absence  of
non-recurring  TRICON  start-up  costs of  approximately  $14 million which were
incurred in 1997. The 1998  increased  expenses were higher than the $20 million
we estimated in our 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  primarily due to increased
incentive and stock-based  compensation.  These increased compensation costs are
due to  better-than-expected  operating results, as well as strong growth in the
market value of our Common Stock for the second half of 1998,  partially  offset
by delays in staffing positions at TRICON.

     Equity income from investments in our unconsolidated  affiliates  increased
$10 million in 1998.  This  increase  was due  primarily  to lower  amortization
relating to the impact of the joint venture  investment  impairment  included in
our 1997 fourth quarter  charge and, to a lesser extent,  the impact of new unit
development  primarily by our joint venture in the United  Kingdom.  Net foreign
exchange gains were $6 million in 1998 compared to net foreign  exchange  losses
of $16 million in 1997. This improvement was due primarily to non-recurring 1997
foreign exchange losses,  predominantly in Thailand and the Netherlands,  and to
foreign  exchange  gains  in  1998  primarily  due to  U.S.  dollar  denominated
short-term investments in Canada.

     Our core G&A  increased  $30  million  or 3% in 1997  reflecting  increased
investment  spending,  TRICON start-up costs, higher incentive  compensation and
increased  litigation-related  costs. Investment spending consisted primarily of
costs  related to  improving  and  updating  administrative  systems,  including
initial spending of $4 million on Year 2000 compliance and remediation  efforts,
as well as  investments  in certain  key  international  markets.  These  higher
expenses were  partially  offset by the lapping of a  reorganization  charge for
Pizza  Hut  in  1996,   overall  lower  project  spending  and  field  overhead,
particularly at Pizza Hut, and the favorable impacts of stores sold or closed.

Facility Actions Net (Gain) Loss


     Refranchising  gains, which included initial franchise fees of $44 million,
$41 million and $22 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  as well as a
$100 million  tax-free gain from  refranchising  our  restaurants in New Zealand
through an initial public offering in 1997,  resulted from the  refranchising of
1,389 units in 1998, 1,418 units in 1997 and 659 units in 1996.




     Prior to April 23, 1998,  we provided  store closure costs when we made the
decision  to close a unit.  At that time,  in  response  to the  Securities  and
Exchange   Commission's   ("SEC")   interpretation  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 121,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"), we changed our
store closure  accounting policy. For closure decisions made subsequent to April
23, 1998,  we only  recognize  any required  asset  impairment as a component of
store closure costs when we have closed the  restaurant  within the same quarter
the closure  decision  is made.  The impact of this  change  reduced  1998 store
closure costs by $4 million  which was more than offset by increased  impairment
described in next paragraph.  We closed 661 units in both 1998 and 1997, and 352
units in 1996.

     Impairment  charges were $31 million in 1998.  Prior to April 23, 1998, our
impairment  charges  resulted from our normal  semi-annual  evaluation of stores
which we will  continue to use in the  business.  Stores that meet our "two-year
history of operating  losses,"  our primary  impairment  indicator,  or which we
believe may be impaired due to other changes or circumstances  are evaluated for
impairment.  In 1998, upon adoption of the SEC's  interpretation of SFAS 121, we
also perform  impairment  evaluations  when we expect to actually  close a store
beyond the quarter in which our closure  decision is made.  This change resulted
in additional  impairment  charges of $6 million in 1998. We believe the overall
decrease in  impairment  in 1998 was  significantly  impacted by 1997  decisions
included in our fourth  quarter  charge to dispose of certain  stores  which may
have  otherwise  been  impaired in our  evaluations,  and  improved  performance
primarily at Pizza Hut in the U.S. Impairment charges of $50 million in 1997 and
$62 million in 1996  resulted from our  semi-annual  impairment  evaluations  of
restaurants.

Operating Profits


     Ongoing operating  profits increased $96 million or 14% in 1998.  Excluding
the negative impact of foreign currency  translation,  ongoing operating profits
increased $120 million or 18%. The increase was driven by higher  franchise fees
and  reduced  G&A,  partially  offset  by the  absence  in 1998 of the  Non-core
Businesses'  operating  profit of $13 million  and the special  1997 KFC renewal
fees of $24 million.  Ongoing  operating  profits in 1998 included benefits from
our 1997 fourth quarter charge of approximately $64 million of which $33 million
related to the suspension of depreciation  and  amortization for stores included
in the charge.  The  benefits  from our 1997 fourth  quarter  charge were almost
completely  offset by incremental 1998 Year 2000 spending of $27 million and the
decline in Asia profits of $27 million in 1998 compared to 1997.

     Unallocated  and corporate  expenses  increased $82 million or 93% in 1998.
The  increase  was  primarily  due to  spending  on  Year  2000  compliance  and
remediation  efforts,  costs to relocate our  processing  center from Wichita to
other  facilities  and  expenses  incurred  as an  independent,  publicly  owned
company,  as well as, additional  expenses related to the efforts to improve and
standardize operating, administrative and accounting systems.




     Ongoing operating  profits increased $91 million or 16% in 1997.  Excluding
the negative impact of foreign currency  translation,  ongoing operating profits
increased  $97 million or 17%.  The  increase  relates  primarily  to  increased
franchise  fees driven by the special  1997 KFC renewal  fees of $24 million and
improved  restaurant margin,  partially offset by an increase in unallocated and
corporate  expenses.  The increase was driven primarily by increased  investment
spending  related to improving  and updating  administrative  systems  including
initial  spending  on Year  2000  compliance  and  remediation  efforts,  TRICON
start-up costs and higher incentive compensation.

Interest Expense, Net

                                    1998              1997            1996
                                ------------     -------------     ------------

     External debt              $    291         $     102         $      35
     PepsiCo allocation                -               188               275
                                ------------     -------------     ------------
     Interest expense                291               290               310
     Interest income                 (19)              (14)              (10)
                                ------------     -------------     ------------
     Interest expense, net      $    272         $     276         $     300
                                ============     =============     ============

     Prior to the Spin-off,  our operations were financed through operating cash
flows,  proceeds from  refranchising  activities  and investment by and advances
from  PepsiCo.  At the Spin-off  date,  we borrowed  $4.55  billion under a bank
credit  agreement to replace the financing  previously  provided by PepsiCo and,
additionally,  to  fund  a  dividend  to  PepsiCo.  See  Notes  2 and  9 to  the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  For  periods  prior to the  Spin-off,  our
interest  expense  included   PepsiCo's   allocation  of  its  interest  expense
(PepsiCo's  weighted  average  interest  rate applied to the average  balance of
investments  by and advances  from  PepsiCo) and interest on our external  debt,
including  capital  leases.  We believe such allocated  interest  expense is not
indicative  of  the  interest   expense  that  we  would  have  incurred  as  an
independent,  publicly owned company or will incur in future periods. Subsequent
to the Spin-off date, our interest costs consist  primarily of interest  expense
related to our bank credit  agreement,  Unsecured Notes and other external debt.
Most of the other external debt existed at the Spin-off date.

     Our net interest  expense  decreased  approximately $4 million in 1998. The
decline was due to an increase in interest income,  partially offset by a slight
increase  in interest  expense.  The  increase in interest  income was driven by
higher  average  international  investment  balances.  The  slight  increase  in
interest expense was primarily due to higher average outstanding debt balances.

     Interest expense  decreased in 1997 primarily due to the lower  outstanding
amount of  PepsiCo-provided  financing.  This impact was partially offset by the
higher  interest rate on our bank credit  agreement,  as compared to the PepsiCo
rate used in the allocation process, and also higher outstanding debt levels.





Income Taxes

                               1998              1997                1996
                          --------------   ---------------     -----------------
  Income taxes            $        311     $          76       $         125
  Effective tax rate             41.1%                NM                  NM

 Ongoing*                                                                       
  Income taxes            $        302     $         211       $         183
  Effective tax rate             42.1%             45.9%               57.5%

*    Adjusted  to exclude  the  effects of the  following:  (1) the 1997  fourth
     quarter charge  adjustments  and unusual  charges in 1998; (2) the 1997 New
     Zealand IPO $100 million  tax-free gain, the 1997 fourth quarter charge and
     the  remaining  portion of the 1997  unusual  charges in 1997;  and (3) the
     unusual disposal charges related to the Non-core Businesses in 1996.

     For  periods  prior  to the  Spin-off  in  1997,  income  tax  expense  was
calculated,  to the extent possible,  as if we filed income tax returns separate
from PepsiCo. As PepsiCo managed its tax position on a consolidated basis, which
takes into account the results of all its businesses,  our effective tax rate in
the  future  could  vary  significantly  from  historical  effective  tax  rates
calculated for periods prior to the Spin-off.

     The following reconciles the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to our ongoing
effective rate:


     The 1998 ongoing  effective  tax rate  decreased  3.8 points to 42.1%.  The
decrease in the 1998 ongoing  effective  tax rate was primarily due to favorable
adjustments related to prior years.

     The 1997 ongoing  effective tax rate  decreased  11.6 points to 45.9%.  The
decrease  in the  1997  ongoing  effective  tax rate  was  primarily  due to the
decrease in taxes  attributable to foreign  operations,  partially  offset by an
increase  in state  taxes.  The foreign  decrease  was due to the absence of the
adjustment recorded in 1996 to establish a valuation allowance.  The increase in
state tax was primarily due to an increase in the provision related to prior tax
years.

     The  effective  tax rate  attributable  to foreign  operations  varied from
year-to-year  but in each year was higher than the U.S.  Federal  statutory  tax
rate.  This was  primarily  due to  foreign  tax rate  differentials,  including
foreign  withholding  tax paid without benefit of the related foreign tax credit
for U.S.  income tax purposes and losses of foreign  operations for which no tax
benefit could be currently recognized.





Earnings (Loss) Per Share

The components of earnings (loss) per common share were as follows:

(a)  Based on 156 million shares applicable to diluted  earnings.  See Note 3 to
     the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b)  The shares used to compute pro forma basic loss per common share for the 52
     weeks  ending  December  27, 1997 and  December  28,  1996  assumes the 152
     million  shares of TRICON  Common  Stock issued on October 7, 1997 had been
     outstanding for all periods  presented.  The dilutive effect of any options
     has been excluded because we incurred net losses.
(c)  1998 includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of
     $0.21 per  diluted  share.  1997  includes a loss of $1.98 per basic  share
     included in our total fourth quarter charge of $2.80 per basic share.
(d)  1998 includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of
     $0.04 per  diluted  share.  1997  includes a loss of $0.82 per basic  share
     included in our total fourth quarter charge of $2.80 per basic share.

U.S. Results of Operations

(1)  Excluding  the special 1997 KFC renewal fees,  1998 and 1997  increased 19%
     and 13% over prior year, respectively.
(2)  Excludes   facility   actions  net  gain   (loss)  and   unusual   charges.




U.S. Restaurant Unit Activity

(a)  Includes 151 Company  units  approved  for  closure,  but not yet closed at
     December  26,  1998,  of which 109 units were  included  in our 1997 fourth
     quarter charge.


     System  sales  increased  $511  million  or 4% in 1998.  The  increase  was
attributable to new unit development,  primarily by franchisees and licensees of
Taco Bell and, to a lesser extent,  KFC, and positive same store sales growth at
all three of our brands.  These increases were partially offset by the impact of
store closures.

     The 1997  increase of $114 million or 1% in system sales was  primarily due
to new unit development,  principally by franchisees and licensees at Taco Bell.
This increase was partially offset by the impact of store closures.

     Revenues  decreased  $937  million or 13%  primarily  due to our decline in
Company  sales of $981  million  or 14% in 1998.  Excluding  the  effect  of the
Non-core  Businesses,  our Company  sales  decreased  $715  million or 11%.  The
decline in Company sales was driven by the portfolio  effect partially offset by
positive same store sales growth at all three of our brands.

     We measure  same store sales only for our U.S.  Company  units.  Same store
sales at Pizza Hut  increased 6% in 1998.  The increase  reflects a higher check
average at traditional and delivery units driven by the new product offerings of
"The Edge" and the  "Sicilian"  pizzas as well as the  promotion of the "Stuffed
Crust" Pizza. The increase was partially  offset by volume declines.  KFC's same
store sales  increased  3% in 1998.  The  improvement  was  primarily  driven by
favorable effective net pricing and strong product promotions including "Popcorn
Chicken,"  "Honey  Barbecue"  wings and "Original  Recipe." Same store sales for
Taco Bell  increased  3% in 1998.  The  increase  was driven by an  increase  in
average guest check  resulting  primarily from favorable  effective net pricing.
Same store sales also  benefited from the  introduction  of "Gorditas," a higher
priced menu item. The increase was partially offset by volume declines.

     Franchise and license fees increased $44 million or 12% in 1998.  Excluding
the special 1997 KFC renewal fees (described below),  1998 franchise and license
fees  increased $68 million or 19%. The increase was  primarily  driven by units
acquired  from us and new unit  development,  partially  offset by the impact of
store closures by franchisees and licensees.




     Revenues  decreased  $558  million or 7% in 1997  primarily  due to Company
sales  decreases  of $621  million or 8%.  Excluding  the impact of the Non-core
Businesses,  Company sales decreased $496 million or 7%. The decrease was driven
primarily by the portfolio  effect.  The decline was partially  offset by higher
overall  effective net pricing.  This pricing impact occurred  primarily at Taco
Bell, which more than offset the impact of lower prices at Pizza Hut.

     Same store sales at KFC increased 2% in 1997 driven by product  promotions,
favorable  effective net pricing and increased delivery sales,  partially offset
by lower  transaction  counts.  Same store sales at Pizza Hut  decreased  1% for
1997,  rebounding from a 7% decline  through the second  quarter.  At Pizza Hut,
lower  average  guest checks in 1997 and  decreasing  transaction  counts in the
first  half of the year were  partially  offset in the  second  half by  quality
initiatives,  increasing  transaction  counts and the introduction of "The Edge"
Pizza. Taco Bell same store sales increased 2% in 1997 reflecting the successful
Star Wars and Batman  promotions,  favorable  product  mix  shifts and  pricing,
offset by lower transaction counts.

     Franchise  and license fees  increased $63 million or 20% in 1997. In 1997,
we generated $24 million of special KFC renewal fees. Substantially all of KFC's
franchisees renewed their franchise  agreements,  typically for 20 years, during
1997.  As part of this special  renewal  program at KFC,  certain  participating
franchisees  also  committed  to  attain  over the next  several  years  certain
facility   standards   based  on  physical   assessment  of  that   franchisee's
restaurants.  We  believe  these  upgrades  of the  franchised  facilities  will
ultimately result in higher system sales and, therefore,  higher franchise fees.
Excluding  the special 1997 KFC renewal  fees,  our  franchise  and license fees
increased $39 million or 13% in 1997. The increase was primarily driven by units
acquired from us and new unit development, partially offset by store closures by
franchisees and licensees.

Restaurant Margin - U.S.

                                           1998          1997          1996
                                         ----------    -----------   ----------

Company sales                              100.0%        100.0%        100.0%
Food and paper                              31.0          31.1          32.1
Payroll and employee benefits               30.4          30.5          30.2
Occupancy and other operating expenses      25.0          26.7          27.4
                                         ----------    -----------   ----------
Restaurant margin                           13.6%         11.7%         10.3%
                                         ==========    ===========   ==========

     Our  restaurant  margin as a percentage of sales  increased  over 190 basis
points in 1998.  Portfolio effect contributed  approximately 75 basis points and
the suspension of depreciation and  amortization  relating to our fourth quarter
charge contributed approximately 40 basis points. Excluding the portfolio effect
and the benefit of the fourth quarter charge,  our restaurant  margin  increased
approximately  80 basis points.  In 1998, we benefited from favorable  effective
net pricing in excess of costs,  primarily labor and commodity  costs. Our labor
increases were driven by higher wage rates, primarily the September 1997 minimum
wage  increase,  an  increase  in the  management  complement  at our Taco  Bell
restaurants and lower favorable insurance-related adjustments in 1998. Commodity
cost  increases,  primarily  cheese  and  produce,  were  partially  offset by a
decrease in other commodity  costs.  Our occupancy and other operating  expenses
were favorably  impacted by higher  favorable  insurance-related  adjustments in
1998 and the decreased store condition and quality initiative  spending at Pizza
Hut and Taco Bell.  These  favorable  items were  partially  offset by increased
store refurbishment expenses at KFC in 1998.




     Our  increase in  restaurant  margin of almost 140 basis points in 1997 was
driven  almost  equally by effective  net pricing in excess of increased  costs,
primarily labor, and the portfolio effect. This improvement was partially offset
by the effect of reduced  transaction counts. The higher labor costs were due to
the  increased   minimum  wage  and  to  costs  incurred  to  improve   customer
satisfaction,  partially offset by favorable  actuarial  adjustments to workers'
compensation liabilities. In 1997, we also benefited from lower commodity costs,
primarily  related to favorable  cheese and chicken prices,  and the disposal of
the Non-core Businesses.

     Operating profits from our Core Businesses,  excluding facility actions net
gain and unusual  charges,  increased  $150 million or 26% in 1998. The increase
was driven by reduced  G&A  expenses,  higher  franchise  and  license  fees and
restaurant  margin  improvement  partially  offset by the absence of the special
1997 KFC renewal  fees.  The decline in G&A was  primarily  due to the portfolio
effect and a decrease in restaurant  support center and field operating overhead
costs.  Operating  profits  included  the  benefits  related to our 1997  fourth
quarter charge of approximately $35 million, of which $19 million related to the
suspension  of  depreciation  and  amortization  for the stores  included in the
charge.

     Operating profits from our Core Businesses,  excluding facility actions net
gain and unusual charges  increased $74 million or 14% in 1997. The increase was
primarily due to higher continuing  franchise and license fees, the special 1997
KFC renewal fees and improved  restaurant  margin.  The increases were partially
offset by an increase in G&A and other expenses.

International Results of Operations


(1)  Excludes   facility   actions  net  gain   (loss)  and   unusual   charges.





International Restaurant Unit Activity

(a)  Includes 15 Company and 4 Joint Venture units approved for closure, but not
     yet closed at December  26,  1998,  of which 14 units were  included in our
     1997 fourth quarter charge.


     System sales  decreased $356 million or 5% in 1998.  Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased $360 million or
5%.  The  increase  was  driven  by new  unit  development,  primarily  in Asia,
partially offset by store closures in other countries/markets.

     System sales  increased  $71 million or 1% in 1997.  Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased $411 million or
6% in 1997. This growth was driven by new unit development,  partially offset by
store  closures.   Franchisee   activity  drove  system  unit  development  with
approximately 50% of that activity occurring in Asia.

     Revenues  decreased  $280  million or 12% in 1998.  Excluding  the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  revenues  decreased $86 million or 4%.
Company  sales  decreased  $279 million or 13% in 1998.  Excluding  the negative
impact of foreign currency translation,  Company sales decreased $107 million or
5%. The decrease in 1998 was driven by the portfolio effect, partially offset by
new unit  development  and  effective  net pricing.  Franchise  and license fees
decreased $1 million or less than 1%.  Excluding the negative  impact of foreign
currency  translation,  franchise and license fees increased $21 million or 11%.
The increase was primarily  driven by new unit  development  and units  acquired
from us, partially offset by store closures by franchisees and licensees.

     Revenues  increased  $12  million  or less than 1% in 1997.  Excluding  the
negative impact of foreign currency translation,  revenues increased $93 million
or 4%. This increase relates primarily to higher effective net pricing, new unit
development  in  Asia  and  an  increase  in  franchise  fees   attributable  to
development, partially offset by store closures. Company sales in 1997 decreased
$5 million or less than 1%.  Excluding the negative  impact of foreign  currency
translation, Company sales increased $66 million or 3%. This increase was driven
primarily by higher effective net pricing and unit development, partially offset
by the effect of refranchising our restaurants in New Zealand through an initial
public offering in the second quarter.  Franchise and license fees increased $17
million  or 9% in 1997  primarily  driven  by new  unit  development  and  units
acquired  from  us,  partially  offset  by store  closures  by  franchisees  and
licensees.




Restaurant Margin - International

                                             1998         1997        1996
                                          -----------  ----------   ----------

Company sales                                100.0%       100.0%      100.0%
Food and paper                                35.8         36.5        36.3
Payroll and employee benefits                 22.6         22.7        23.2
Occupancy and other operating expenses        28.6         29.4        29.3
                                          -----------  ----------   ----------
Restaurant margin                             13.0%        11.4%       11.2%
                                          ===========  ==========   ==========

     Our restaurant  margin  increased over 160 basis points in 1998.  Excluding
the negative impact of foreign currency translation, restaurant margin increased
approximately  195 basis  points.  The  increase  was  driven  primarily  by the
suspension of depreciation and amortization  relating to restaurants included in
our 1997  fourth  quarter  charge,  which  contributed  110  basis  points.  The
portfolio  effect  also  contributed   approximately  30  basis  points  to  the
improvement.  The remaining margin  improvement of approximately 55 basis points
resulted  from  favorable  effective  net  pricing in excess of costs in Mexico,
Australia and Spain.  Restaurant  margin  improvement  was  partially  offset by
volume  declines in Asia, led by Korea.  The economic  turmoil  throughout  Asia
resulted in an overall volume  decline,  even though we had volume  increases in
Mexico, Canada and Spain.

     Our restaurant  margin increased over 20 basis points in 1997. The increase
was  driven by  effective  net  pricing in excess of cost  increases,  primarily
labor, offset by volume declines. Foreign currency translation and the portfolio
effect did not have a significant impact.

     Operating profits, excluding facility actions net gain and unusual charges,
increased $19 million or 11% in 1998.  Excluding the negative  impact of foreign
currency  translation,  operating  profits increased $43 million or 25% in 1998.
The increase  was driven by an increase in franchise  fees and a decline in G&A.
Operating profits included benefits related to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of
approximately  $29 million,  of which $14 million  related to the  suspension of
depreciation  and  amortization  for the stores  included in the  charge.  These
benefits  were fully  offset by the decline in Asia  operating  profits and Year
2000 spending.

     Operating  profits,  excluding the fourth  quarter  charge,  other facility
actions and unusual charges, increased $17 million or 11% in 1997. Excluding the
negative impact of foreign currency translation, operating profits increased $23
million or 15%. The increase in 1997 was driven by higher  franchise  fees,  new
unit  development and higher  restaurant  margin  dollars.  These increases were
partially offset by an increase in G&A.

Consolidated Cash Flows

                                                1998         1997         1996
                                             ----------   ----------  ----------

Net cash provided by operating activities    $     674    $     810   $     713
Refranchising of restaurants                       784          770         355
                                             ----------   ----------  ----------
                                             $   1,458    $   1,580   $   1,068
                                             ==========   ==========  ==========
Capital spending                             $     460    $     541   $     620
                                             ==========   ==========  ==========




     Net cash provided by operating  activities decreased $136 million or 17% to
$674  million in 1998.  Cash used for working  capital was $106 million for 1998
compared to cash  provided by working  capital of $27 million in 1997.  The 1998
use was primarily due to an increase in current  deferred tax assets and reduced
income  taxes  payable.  Excluding  net changes in working  capital,  net income
before facility actions and all other non-cash charges was essentially unchanged
despite  the  decline  in the  number of our  restaurants  in the  current  year
relating to our portfolio activities.

     Net cash provided by operating  activities in 1997 increased $97 million or
14% to $810  million.  This was driven by an  increase  in net  income  prior to
facility  actions net loss and unusual charges  recorded in 1997 and an increase
in our normal working  capital  deficit  primarily  related to higher income tax
payables.  These  increases were partially  offset by reduced  depreciation  and
amortization in 1997. The decrease in depreciation and  amortization  related to
refranchisings, store closures and impairment charges.

     Net cash provided by investing  activities  decreased  $164 million to $302
million  in 1998  compared  to $466  million  in  1997.  The 1998  decrease  was
primarily  due to the  prior  year  sale of the  Non-core  Businesses  offset by
increased  proceeds  from  refranchising  and the sales of  property,  plant and
equipment. Capital spending decreased by $81 million or 15%.

     The 1997 increase of $715 million was primarily attributable to an increase
in proceeds from  refranchising of restaurants of $415 million over 1996 and the
proceeds from the sale of the Non-core Businesses of $186 million.
Capital spending in 1997 decreased by $79 million or 13%.

     Net cash used for financing  activities of $1.1 billion decreased  slightly
in 1998 compared to 1997. The 1998 use represents  net debt  repayments.  During
1998, we issued Unsecured Notes resulting in proceeds of $604 million, including
the  settlement of our treasury  lock  agreements.  These  proceeds were used to
reduce existing  borrowings under our unsecured Term Loan Facility and unsecured
Revolving Credit Facility.

     Net cash  used for  financing  activities  almost  tripled  in 1997 to $1.1
billion,  primarily reflecting the net payments to PepsiCo,  partially offset by
the bank borrowings in connection with the Spin-off.  This net use was partially
offset by the increase in short-term  borrowings of $83 million in 1997 versus a
decrease of $80 million in 1996 and payments on the Revolving Credit Facility.

     Financing Activities
     --------------------

     During  1998,  we reduced  our  reliance on bank debt by over $1 billion by
reducing term debt. Term debt was reduced through a combination of proceeds from
the debt  securities  offered  under our  shelf  registration  discussed  below,
proceeds from refranchising activities and operating cash flows. A key component
of our financing philosophy is to build balance sheet liquidity and to diversify
sources of  funding.  Consistent  with that  philosophy,  we have taken steps to
refinance a portion of our existing bank credit  facility  referred to below. In
1997,  we filed  with the SEC a shelf  registration  statement  on Form S-3 with
respect to offerings of up to $2 billion of senior  unsecured debt. In early May
1998, we issued $350 million 7.45%  Unsecured  Notes due May 15, 2005,  and $250
million 7.65%  Unsecured Notes due May 15, 2008,  under our shelf  registration.
The proceeds were used to reduce  existing  borrowings  under our unsecured Term
Loan Facility and unsecured  Revolving  Credit  Facility.  We may offer and sell
from time to time additional debt securities in one or more series,  in amounts,
at prices and on terms we determine  based on market  conditions  at the time of
sale, as discussed in more detail in the registration statement.

     To fund the Spin-off,  we negotiated a $5.25 billion bank credit  agreement
comprised  of a $2 billion  senior,  unsecured  Term Loan  Facility  and a $3.25
billion senior,  unsecured  Revolving Credit Facility which mature on October 2,
2002.  Interest  is based  principally  on the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
("LIBOR") plus a variable margin as defined in the credit agreement.  During the
year ended  December  26, 1998,  we made net payments 




of $1.04 billion and $620 million  under our  unsecured  bank Term Loan Facility
and the unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,  respectively.  Amounts outstanding
under the Revolving Credit Facility are expected to fluctuate from time to time,
but term loan  reductions  cannot be reborrowed.  Such payments  reduced amounts
outstanding  at December 26, 1998,  to $926 million and $1.82 billion from $1.97
billion and $2.44  billion at year-end  1997, on the term facility and revolving
facility,  respectively.  At December 26, 1998, we had unused  revolving  credit
agreement  borrowings  available  aggregating  $1.3 billion,  net of outstanding
letters of credit of $173 million.  The credit facilities are subject to various
affirmative  and negative  covenants  including  financial  covenants as well as
limitations on additional  indebtedness  including  guarantees of  indebtedness,
cash dividends,  aggregate non-U.S. investments,  among other things, as defined
in the credit agreement.

     This substantial  indebtedness  subjects us to significant interest expense
and  principal  repayment  obligations,  which are limited in the near term,  to
prepayment  events as  defined  in the credit  agreement.  Our highly  leveraged
capital  structure could also adversely affect our ability to obtain  additional
financing  in the future or to  undertake  refinancings  on terms and subject to
conditions that are acceptable to us.

     Since October 7, 1997, we have been in compliance  with the bank covenants.
We will continue to closely  monitor on an ongoing  basis the various  operating
issues that could,  in  aggregate,  affect our ability to comply with  financial
covenant requirements.

     We continue to use various  derivative  instruments  with the  objective of
reducing  volatility in our borrowing costs. We have utilized interest rate swap
agreements  to  effectively  convert a portion of our variable rate (LIBOR) bank
debt to fixed rate.  During 1998, we entered into  treasury  lock  agreements to
partially hedge the anticipated issuance of our senior debt securities discussed
above.  We have also entered into interest rate  arrangements to limit the range
of  effective  interest  rates on a portion of our variable  rate bank debt.  At
December 26, 1998, the weighted average interest rate on our variable bank debt,
including the effect of derivatives,  was 6.2%. Other derivative instruments may
be  considered  from time to time as well to manage  our debt  portfolio  and to
hedge foreign currency exchange exposures.

     We  anticipate  that  our  1999  combined  cash  flow  from  operating  and
refranchising activities will be lower than 1998 levels primarily because of our
expectations of reduced refranchising  activity.  However, we believe it will be
sufficient to support our expected  capital  spending and still allow us to make
significant debt repayments.

     Consolidated Financial Condition

     Assets decreased $583 million or 11% to $4.5 billion at year-end 1998. This
decrease is primarily  attributable  to  refranchising  and store closures and a
decrease in U.S. cash which was attributable to improved cash management.

     Liabilities  decreased $1.0 billion or 15% to $5.7 billion primarily due to
net debt repayments.  Partially offsetting this decrease is an increase in other
liabilities largely due to increased deferred compensation liabilities,  pension
liabilities  and  self-insured  casualty  claims.  Additional  salary  and bonus
deferrals  and imputed  earnings on deferrals  under our  compensation  programs
caused the deferred  compensation  liability to increase.  The pension liability
increased based on current actuarial valuations. The increase in casualty claims
is due to the decision in the current year to effectively  self-insure a portion
of our 1998 exposure compared to a fully insured program in 1997.

     Our operating  working  capital  deficit,  which excludes cash,  short-term
investments and short-term borrowings, is typical of restaurant operations where
the vast  majority of sales are for cash,  and food and supply  inventories  are
relatively  small. Our terms of payment to suppliers  generally range from 10-30
days.  Our operating  working  capital  deficit  decreased  $113 million to $960
million at year-end  1998.  This decrease 




was  primarily  the result of a decrease in income taxes payable and an increase
in deferred tax assets.  Also  contributing  to this decrease was a reduction in
the Core  Businesses'  working  capital  deficit  due to our  reduced  number of
restaurants  resulting  from our portfolio  activities and also due to increased
inventories of promotional  items.  This decrease was partially offset by higher
levels of  above-store  accounts  payable and other current  liabilities  due to
timing of payments as well as higher levels of outside  services and an increase
in total incentive compensation accruals.

     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     Derivative Instruments

     Our  policy  prohibits  the  use  of  derivative  instruments  for  trading
purposes,  and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. Our
current use of  derivative  instruments  is primarily  limited to interest  rate
swaps and collars and commodity futures contracts.

     Interest  rate swaps and  collars are entered  into with the  objective  of
reducing the  volatility in borrowing  costs.  In 1998 and 1997, we entered into
interest rate swaps to  effectively  convert a portion of our variable rate bank
debt to fixed rate. Payment dates and the floating rates indices and reset dates
on the swaps match those of our underlying  bank debt. At December 26, 1998, our
payables under the related swaps aggregated $1.6 million.

     Interest  rate collars are entered into with the  objective of reducing the
impact of  variable  interest  rate  changes in our bank debt  thereby  reducing
volatility in borrowing costs. In 1998, we entered into interest rate collars to
guarantee an upper (cap) and lower  (floor) level of interest  rates  associated
with a portion of bank debt.  Collar reset dates and indices  match those of our
underlying  bank debt. We make payments when interest rates fall below the floor
level.  We receive  payments when interest rates rise above the cap. At December
26, 1998, our payables under the related collars were immaterial, and there were
no related receivables.

     Our credit risk related to these  derivatives  is  dependent  upon both the
movement in interest rates and the possibility of non-payment by counterparties.
We  mitigate  credit  risk by  entering  into  the  agreements  only  with  high
credit-quality counterparties, netting payments within each contract and netting
exposures upon default across all contracts with a given counterparty.  However,
we believe the risk of default is minimal.

     Commodity futures  contracts traded on national  exchanges are entered into
with the  objective  of reducing  food costs.  While this  hedging  activity has
historically  been limited,  hedging activity could increase in the future if we
believe it would result in lower total costs. Open contracts, deferred gains and
losses  and  realized  gains  and  losses  were not  significant  for all  years
presented.

     Market Risk of Financial Instruments

     Our primary market risk exposure with regard to financial instruments is to
changes in interest rates,  principally in the United States. In addition,  less
than 2% of our debt is  denominated  in foreign  currencies  which exposes us to
market risk associated with exchange rate movements.  Historically,  we have not
used derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to foreign currency
rate  fluctuations  since the market risk associated  with our foreign  currency
denominated debt was not considered significant.

     At December 26, 1998, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term
interest  rates would  result in a  reduction  of  approximately  $15 million in
annual  pre-tax  earnings.  The  estimated  reduction is based upon the unhedged
portion  of our  variable  rate debt and  assumes  no  change  in the  volume or
composition of debt at December 26, 1998.




     In addition, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term rates at
December 26, 1998 would increase the fair value of our interest rate  derivative
contracts  approximately  $23 million and, the fair value of our Unsecured Notes
would  decrease   approximately  $34  million.   Fair  value  was  estimated  by
discounting the projected interest rate cash flows.

     New Accounting Pronouncements

     See Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements for discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

     Cautionary Statements

     From time to time, in both written reports and oral statements,  we present
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.  The  statements  include  those  identified by such words as "may,"
"will,"  "expect,"  "believe,"  "plan"  and  other  similar  terminology.  These
"forward-looking statements" reflect our current expectations and are based upon
data available at the time of the  statements.  Actual results involve risks and
uncertainties,  including  both those specific to the Company and those specific
to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations.

     Company  risks and  uncertainties  include,  but are not  limited  to,  the
limited  experience  of our  management  group in  operating  the  Company as an
independent,  publicly owned business; potentially substantial tax contingencies
related to the Spin-off,  which, if they occur, require us to indemnify PepsiCo;
our  substantial  debt leverage and the attendant  potential  restriction on our
ability to borrow in the future, as well as the substantial interest expense and
principal  repayment   obligations;   potential  unfavorable  variances  between
estimated and actual liabilities including accruals for wage and hour litigation
and the liabilities related to the sale of the Non-core Businesses;  our failure
or the failure of critical business  partners to achieve timely,  effective Year
2000 remediation; our ability to complete our conversion plans or the ability of
our key suppliers to be Euro-compliant;  and the potential inability to identify
qualified  franchisees  to purchase  the 408 Company  units  remaining  from the
fourth  quarter  1997  charge  as well as other  units  at  prices  we  consider
appropriate  under our  strategy  to reduce the  percentage  of system  units we
operate.

     Industry risks and  uncertainties  include,  but are not limited to, global
and local  business and  economic  and  political  conditions;  legislation  and
governmental  regulation;  competition;  success of  operating  initiatives  and
advertising and promotional efforts; volatility of commodity costs and increases
in minimum wage and other  operating  costs;  availability  and cost of land and
construction;  adoption of new or changes in accounting  policies and practices;
consumer  preferences,  spending patterns and demographic  trends;  political or
economic instability in local markets; and currency exchange rates.




Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                              Item 8 (a) (1) - (2)


No schedules are required because either the required information is not present
or not present in amounts sufficient to require  submission of the schedule,  or
because the  information  required is  included  in the above  listed  financial
statements or notes thereto.



Consolidated Statement of Operations
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended  December  26, 1998,  December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996
(in millions, except per share amounts)











See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended  December  26, 1998,  December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996
(in millions)


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Balance Sheet
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997
(in millions)


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' (Deficit) Equity & Comprehensive Income
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended  December  26, 1998,  December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996
(in millions)


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(tabular amounts in millions, except share data)

Note 1 - Description of Business

     TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries (collectively referred to
as "TRICON" or the  "Company")  was created as an  independent,  publicly  owned
company on October 6, 1997 (the "Spin-off Date") via a tax-free  distribution by
our  former  parent,  PepsiCo,  Inc.  ("PepsiCo"),  of  our  Common  Stock  (the
"Distribution" or "Spin-off") to its shareholders. TRICON is the world's largest
quick service  restaurant company based on the number of system units, with more
than 29,000  restaurants in 101 countries and territories.  References to TRICON
throughout  these  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  are made using the first
person notations of "we" or "our." The worldwide business of our core businesses
of KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell ("Core  Business(es)"),  include the operations,
development and  franchising  and licensing of a system of both  traditional and
non-traditional quick service restaurant units featuring dine-in,  carryout and,
in some  instances,  drive-thru  or delivery  service.  Each Core  Business  has
proprietary  menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality
ingredients  as well  as  unique  recipes  and  special  seasonings  to  provide
appealing,  tasty and attractive food at competitive  prices. We also previously
operated other non-core concepts disposed of in 1997, which included  California
Pizza Kitchen,  Chevys Mexican Restaurant,  D'Angelo's Sandwich Shops, East Side
Mario's and Hot `n Now (collectively, the "Non-core Businesses"). As of year-end
1998, 32% of total  worldwide units were operated by us or  international  joint
ventures  in which we  participate  and 68% by our  franchisees  and  licensees.
Approximately 31% of our system units are located outside the U.S. In late 1994,
we  determined  that each Core  Business  system  should  be  rebalanced  toward
franchising  and that  underperforming  units  should be closed and,  since that
time,  3,730  units have been  refranchised  and 1,941  units  have been  closed
through December 26, 1998.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Our preparation of the accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in
conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from our estimates.

     Principles of  Consolidation  and Basis of  Preparation.  The  accompanying
Consolidated  Financial  Statements present our financial  position,  results of
operations  and  cash  flows as if we had been an  independent,  publicly  owned
company for all prior periods presented.  Intercompany accounts and transactions
have been  eliminated.  Investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  in which we
exercise  significant  influence  but do not  control are  accounted  for by the
equity  method.  Our  share of the net  income  or loss of those  unconsolidated
affiliates  and net foreign  exchange  gains or losses are  included in general,
administrative and other expenses.  The Consolidated  Financial Statements prior
to the Spin-off  Date  represent the combined  worldwide  operations of the Core
Businesses and the Non-core Businesses disposed of in 1997.

     In addition, PepsiCo made certain allocations of its previously unallocated
interest and general and administrative expenses related to the years ended 1997
and 1996, as well as  computations of separate tax provisions for its restaurant
segment, to facilitate the presentation.




     Prior to the Spin-off,  our operations were financed  through our operating
cash flows, refranchising proceeds and investments by and advances from PepsiCo.
For this  reason,  our  historical  financial  statements  prior to the Spin-off
include interest expense on our relatively  insignificant  external debt plus an
allocation  of interest  expense  which had not  previously  been  allocated  by
PepsiCo. PepsiCo based its interest allocations on its weighted average interest
rate applied to the average  annual  balance of investments by and advances from
PepsiCo.

     PepsiCo based its allocations of general and administrative expenses on our
revenue as a percent of PepsiCo's total revenue.

The amounts,  by year,  of the  historical  allocations  described  above are as
follows:

                                                    through     
                                                 Spin-off Date        1996
                                                ---------------  -------------

Interest allocated                                  $   188         $   275

PepsiCo weighted-average interest rate                 6.1%            6.2%

General and administrative expense allocated        $    37         $    53

     We believe that the bases of allocation of interest expense and general and
administrative  expenses were  reasonable  based on the facts and  circumstances
available  at  the  date  of  their  allocation.   However,   based  on  current
information,  such  amounts are not  indicative  of amounts  which we would have
incurred as an independent, publicly owned company for all periods presented.

      In  addition,  as noted in our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Shareholders'
(Deficit) Equity and Comprehensive Income, our capital structure changed in 1997
as a result of the Distribution and bears little relationship to the average net
outstanding  investments by and advances from PepsiCo prior to the Spin-off.  In
connection  with the Spin-off,  we borrowed $4.55 billion to fund a dividend and
repayments  to PepsiCo,  which  exceeded the net  aggregate  balance owed at the
Spin-off Date by $1.1 billion.

     For periods prior to the Spin-off,  PepsiCo  calculated income tax expense,
to the extent  possible,  as if we had filed  separate  income tax  returns.  As
PepsiCo  managed its tax  position  on a  consolidated  basis,  which takes into
account the results of all of its businesses, our historical effective tax rates
prior to 1998 are not indicative of our future tax rates.

     Changes in Accounting Principles.

     Comprehensive Income.  Effective December 28, 1997, we adopted Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")  No.  130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive
Income." This  Statement  requires that all items  recognized  under  accounting
standards as components of  comprehensive  earnings be reported in the financial
statements.  We have included these disclosures in the accompanying Consolidated
Statement of Shareholders'  (Deficit) Equity and  Comprehensive  Income. We have
classified  items  of  other  comprehensive  earnings  by  their  nature  in our
financial  statements.  Prior years' financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to these requirements.




     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income includes reclassification amounts as
follows:


     Accumulated   Other   Comprehensive   Income  consisted  of  the  following
components as of December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997:

                                                           1998         1997
                                                         --------     ---------
 Foreign currency translation adjustment                 $ (148)      $   (128)
 Minimum pension liability adjustment                        (2)           -
                                                         --------     ---------
 Total accumulated other comprehensive income            $  (150)     $   (128)
                                                         ========     =========

     Segment Disclosures.  Effective December 28, 1997, we adopted SFAS No. 131,
"Disclosures  About  Segments of an Enterprise and Related  Information"  ("SFAS
131"). This Statement  supersedes SFAS No. 14, "Financial Reporting for Segments
of a Business  Enterprise"  and requires that a public company report annual and
interim  financial and descriptive  information  about its reportable  operating
segments.  Operating segments, as defined, are components of an enterprise about
which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by
the chief operating  decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in
assessing  performance.  This Statement allows  aggregation of similar operating
segments  into a single  operating  segment  if the  businesses  are  considered
similar  under the criteria of this  Statement.  For  purposes of applying  this
Statement, we consider our U.S. Core Businesses to be similar and therefore have
aggregated them. As required, our financial information has been reported on the
basis that we use internally for evaluating segment performance and deciding how
to allocate resources to segments.  Upon adoption of SFAS 131, certain corporate
expenses PepsiCo previously  allocated to our business segments are now reported
as unallocated expenses. We have restated prior year amounts to be comparable to
the current year presentation.

     Internal  Development Costs.  Effective March 18, 1998, we adopted Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 97-11 ("EITF 97-11"), "Accounting for Internal Costs
Relating  to  Real  Estate  Property   Acquisitions."   EITF  97-11  limits  the
capitalization of internal real estate acquisition costs to those  site-specific
costs  incurred  subsequent  to the time  that the real  estate  acquisition  is
considered probable. We consider acquisition of the property probable upon final
site  approval.  Prior to the adoption of EITF 97-11,  all  preacquisition  real
estate  activities  were  considered  capitalizable.  The adoption of EITF 97-11
resulted in additional expenses of $6 million ($3 million after-tax) in 1998 for
internal development costs no longer capitalizable.

     Fiscal Year.  Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday in December and, as
a result,  a  fifty-third  week is added every five or six years.  Fiscal  years
1998, 1997 and 1996 comprised 52 weeks. The first,  second and third quarters of
each year include 12 weeks each, while the fourth quarter includes 16 weeks. Our
subsidiaries operate on similar fiscal calendars with period end dates suited to
their  businesses.  Period end dates are within one week of TRICON's  period end
date with the exception of our international businesses,  which close one period
or month earlier to facilitate consolidated reporting.

     Direct Marketing Costs. We report substantially all of our direct marketing
costs in occupancy and other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations,  which include costs of advertising and other marketing  activities.
We charge direct marketing costs to expense ratably in relation to revenues over
the year in which incurred.  Direct marketing costs deferred at year-end consist
of media and related ad  production  costs.  We expense these costs in the first
year the media or ad is used. Our advertising  expenses were $462 million,  $544
million and $571 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.




     Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses, which
we expense as incurred,  were $21 million,  $21 million and $20 million in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Stock-Based   Employee   Compensation.   We  measure  stock-based  employee
compensation cost for financial statement purposes in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
its related  interpretations  and include  pro forma  information  in Note 13 as
required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based  Compensation"  ("SFAS 123").  Accordingly,  we measure compensation
cost for the stock option  grants to our  employees as the excess of the average
market  price of our Common Stock at the grant date over the amount the employee
must pay for the stock.  Our policy is to generally  grant stock  options at the
average market price of the underlying Common Stock at the date of grant.

     Earnings  (Loss)  Per  Common  Share.  In  the  accompanying   Consolidated
Statement of Operations, we have omitted loss per share information for 1997 and
1996 as our capital structure as an independent,  publicly owned company did not
exist in those years.

     Derivative  Instruments.  From time to time, we utilize interest rate swaps
and collars to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in variable interest rates.

     We  recognize  the  interest  differential  to be  paid or  received  on an
interest  rate swap as an  adjustment  to interest  expense as the  differential
occurs.  We  recognize  the interest  differential  to be paid or received on an
interest rate collar as an  adjustment to interest  expense only if the interest
rate falls  below or exceeds  the  contractual  collared  range.  We reflect the
recognized  interest  differential  not yet settled in cash in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance Sheet as a current  receivable  or payable.  If we were to
terminate an interest  rate swap or collar  position,  any gain or loss realized
upon  termination  would be deferred and amortized to interest  expense over the
remaining  term of the underlying  debt  instrument it was intended to modify or
would be recognized  immediately if the underlying  debt instrument were settled
prior to maturity.

     We defer  gains and losses on futures  contracts  that are  designated  and
effective as hedges of future  commodity  purchases and include them in the cost
of the related raw  materials  when  purchased.  Changes in the value of futures
contracts that we use to hedge commodity  purchases are highly correlated to the
changes in the value of the purchased  commodity.  If the degree of  correlation
between the futures  contracts and the purchase  contracts were to diminish such
that the two were no longer considered highly correlated,  we would recognize in
income subsequent changes in the value of the futures contracts.

     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents.  Cash  equivalents  represent  funds  we have
temporarily  invested (with original  maturities not exceeding  three months) as
part of managing our day-to-day operating cash receipts and disbursements.

     Inventories. We value our inventories at the lower of cost (computed on the
first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.

     Property,  Plant and  Equipment.  We state  property,  plant and  equipment
("PP&E") at cost less  accumulated  depreciation  and  amortization,  impairment
writedowns and valuation allowances.  We calculate depreciation and amortization
on a  straight-line  basis  over the  estimated  useful  lives of the  assets as
follows:  5 to 25 years for  buildings  and  improvements  and 3 to 20 years for
machinery and equipment.  We suspend  depreciation  and  amortization  on assets
related  to  restaurants  that are  held  for  disposal.  Our  depreciation  and
amortization  expense was $372  million,  $460 million and $521 million in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.




     Intangible Assets.  Intangible assets include both identifiable intangibles
and  goodwill  arising  from the  allocation  of purchase  prices of  businesses
acquired.  Where  appropriate,  the  intangibles are allocated to the individual
store  level  at  the  times  of  acquisition.   We  base  amounts  assigned  to
identifiable  intangibles  on  independent  appraisals  or  internal  estimates.
Goodwill  represents  the  residual  purchase  price  after  allocation  to  all
identifiable  net  assets.  Our  intangible  assets  are  stated  at  historical
allocated  cost  less  accumulated   amortization,   impairment  writedowns  and
valuation allowances.  We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis as
follows: 20 years for reacquired  franchise rights, 3 to 34 years for trademarks
and  other  identifiable  intangibles  and 20 years  for  goodwill.  We  suspend
amortization  on intangible  assets  allocated to restaurants  that are held for
disposal.  Our amortization expense was $52 million, $70 million and $95 million
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Franchise  and License  Fees.  We execute  franchise or license  agreements
covering each point of  distribution  which provide the terms of our arrangement
with the  franchisee/licensee.  Our  franchise  and certain  license  agreements
generally require the franchisee/licensee to pay an initial, non-refundable fee.
Our agreements  also require  continuing  fees based upon a percentage of sales.
Subject to our approval and payment of a renewal fee, a franchisee may generally
renew its agreement upon its expiration.

     We recognize  initial fees as revenue when we have performed  substantially
all initial services required by the franchising/licensing  agreement,  which is
generally upon opening of a store.  We recognize  continuing fees as earned with
an  appropriate  provision for  estimated  uncollectible  amounts.  We recognize
renewal fees in earnings when a renewal agreement becomes effective.  We include
initial  fees  collected  upon  the  sale of a  restaurant  to a  franchisee  in
refranchising gains (losses).

     Our  direct  costs of the sales and  servicing  of  franchise  and  license
agreements are charged to expense as incurred.

     Refranchising Gains (Losses). Refranchising gains (losses) include gains or
losses  on sales of our  restaurants  to new and  existing  franchisees  and the
related  initial  franchise  fees.  We include  direct  administrative  costs of
refranchising in the gain or loss calculation.  We recognize gains on restaurant
refranchisings  when the sale transaction  closes,  the franchisee has a minimum
amount of the purchase  price in at-risk  equity and we are  satisfied  that the
franchisee can meet its financial obligations. Otherwise, we defer refranchising
gains  until those  criteria  have been met. We  recognize  estimated  losses on
restaurants to be refranchised and suspend  depreciation and amortization  when:
(1) we make a decision to refranchise a store; (2) the estimated fair value less
costs to sell is less than the carrying  amount of the store;  and (3) the store
can be immediately removed from operations.  When we make a decision to retain a
store  previously held for  refranchising,  we revalue the store at the lower of
its  net  book  value  at  our  original  disposal  decision  date  less  normal
depreciation  during the period held for  disposal  or its  current  fair market
value.  This value becomes the store's new cost basis. We charge (or credit) any
difference between the store's carrying amount and its new cost to refranchising
gains  (losses).  When we make a decision to close a store  previously  held for
refranchising,  we reverse any previously recognized refranchising loss and then
record the store closure costs as described below.

     Store Closure Costs. To conform to the Securities and Exchange Commission's
interpretation  of  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of," our store  closure  accounting  policy  was  changed in 1998.
Effective  for closure  decisions  made on or  subsequent  to April 23, 1998, we
recognize store closure costs when we have closed the restaurant within the same
quarter our  decision is made.  Prior to April 23,  1998,  we  recognized  store
closure costs and generally  suspended  depreciation  and  amortization  when we
decided to close a restaurant in a future  quarter.  Store closure costs include
the cost of  writing-down  (impairing)  the  carrying  amount of a  restaurant's
assets to estimated fair market value less costs of disposal. The impact of this
accounting policy change was not significant.




     When we make a decision to retain a store  previously held for closure,  we
revalue  the  store  at the  lower of net book  value at the  original  disposal
decision  date less normal  depreciation  during the period held for disposal or
the current fair market value. This value becomes the store's new cost basis. We
charge (or credit) any difference  between the store's  carrying  amount and its
new cost to store closure costs.  When we make a decision to refranchise a store
previously held for closure, we reverse any previously  recognized store closure
costs and then record the  estimated  refranchising  loss,  if any, as described
above.

     In addition, for all periods presented, we recorded a liability for the net
present value of any remaining  operating lease  obligations  after the expected
closure date, net of estimated  sublease income,  if any. If we decide to retain
or  refranchise  a store held for  closure,  we reverse the  post-closing  lease
liability previously recorded.

     Impairment  of Long-Lived  Assets to be Held and Used in the  Business.  We
review our long-lived assets, including any allocated intangible assets, related
to  each  restaurant  to be held  and  used in the  business  semi-annually  for
impairment,  or whenever  events or changes in  circumstances  indicate that the
carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable.  We evaluate restaurants
using a  "two-year  history of  operating  losses" as our primary  indicator  of
potential impairment.  Based on the best information available, we write down an
impaired  restaurant to its estimated  fair market value,  which becomes its new
cost basis.  We generally  measure  estimated  fair market value by  discounting
estimated future cash flows. In addition, when we decide to close a store beyond
the  quarter  in  which  the  closure  decision  is  made,  it is  reviewed  for
impairment.  The impairment evaluation is based on the estimated cash flows from
continuing  use until the  expected  disposal  date plus the  expected  terminal
value.

     Considerable  management  judgment is  necessary  to  estimate  future cash
flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates.

     Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Enterprise-Level
Goodwill.  Our  methodology  for  determining  and  measuring  impairment of our
investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  and  enterprise-level  goodwill  is
similar to the methodology we use for our restaurants except (a) the recognition
test for an  investment  in an  unconsolidated  affiliate  compares the carrying
amount  of our  investment  to a  forecast  of our  share of the  unconsolidated
affiliate's  undiscounted  cash flows  including  interest and taxes  instead of
undiscounted  cash flows before  interest and taxes used for our restaurants and
(b) enterprise-level  goodwill is generally evaluated at a country level instead
of by individual  restaurant.  Also, we record impairment charges related to our
investments in unconsolidated  affiliates whenever other circumstances  indicate
that a decrease in the value of an investment  has occurred  which is other than
temporary.

     Reclassifications.  We have reclassified  certain items in the accompanying
Consolidated  Financial  Statements for prior periods to be comparable  with the
classification  we adopted for the fiscal year ended  December 26,  1998.  These
reclassifications had no effect on previously reported net losses.




Note 3 - Earnings Per Common Share ("EPS")

                                                          ------------

Net income                                                $     445
                                                          ============

Basic EPS:
Weighted-average common shares outstanding                      153
                                                          ============

Basic EPS                                                 $    2.92
                                                          ============

Diluted EPS:
Weighted-average common shares outstanding                      153
Shares assumed issued on exercise of dilutive 
  share equivalents                                              20
Shares assumed purchased with proceeds of dilutive 
  share equivalents                                             (17)
                                                          ------------
Shares applicable to diluted earnings                           156
                                                          ============

Diluted EPS                                               $    2.84
                                                          ============

     Unexercised  employee  stock  options to purchase  approximately  1 million
shares  of our  Common  Stock  for the year  ended  December  26,  1998 were not
included in the  computation of diluted EPS because their  exercise  prices were
greater than the average market price of our Common Stock during the year.

     We have omitted EPS data for the years ended December 27, 1997 and December
28, 1996 since we were not an independent, publicly owned company with a capital
structure of our own during those years.

Note 4 - Items Affecting Comparability of Net Income (Loss)

1997 Fourth Quarter Charge 
- --------------------------

     Our 1997 fourth  quarter  charge of $530 million ($425  million  after-tax)
represented actions taken to refocus our business. The charge included estimates
for (1) costs of closing  underperforming stores during 1998, primarily at Pizza
Hut and internationally; (2) reduction to fair market value, less costs to sell,
of the carrying  amounts of certain  restaurants  we intended to  refranchise in
1998; (3) impairment of certain restaurants intended to be used in the business;
(4)  impairment  of certain joint venture  investments  to be retained;  and (5)
costs of related personnel  reductions.  The 1997 fourth quarter charge included
liabilities of approximately  $129 million and asset writedowns of approximately
$401 million.  The liabilities  consisted primarily of  occupancy-related  costs
and, to a much  lesser  extent,  severance.  The  components  of the 1997 fourth
quarter charge are detailed below:




     In 1998,  favorable  adjustments of $54 million ($33 million after-tax) and
$11 million ($7 million  after-tax)  were included in facility  actions net gain
and  unusual  charges,  respectively.  These  adjustments  primarily  relate  to
decisions  to retain  certain  stores  originally  expected to be  disposed  of,
better-than-expected  proceeds from  refranchisings  and lease  settlements with
certain lessors related to stores closed.

Facility Actions Net (Gain) Loss


(a)  1998 includes $54 million ($33 million after-tax) of favorable  adjustments
     to our 1997 fourth quarter charge described above.
(b)  1997 includes $410 million ($300 million  after-tax)  related to our fourth
     quarter charge described above.

Facility actions net (gain) loss consists of three components:

o    Gains  and  losses  on  sales  of  our  restaurants  to  new  and  existing
     franchisees,
o    Costs of closing our underperforming stores and
o    Impairment charges both for restaurants we intend to continue to use in the
     business and,  since April 23, 1998,  restaurants we intend to close beyond
     the quarter in which the closure decision is made.





     The components of facility  actions net (gain) loss for 1998, 1997 and 1996
were as follows:

(a)  Includes initial franchise fees in the U.S. of $39 million, $39 million and
     $22 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  and in International of
     $5 million and $2 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. See Note 5.
(b)  Includes a tax-free  gain of $100  million in 1997 from  refranchising  our
     restaurants in New Zealand through an initial public offering.
(c)  Impairment  charges  for 1998 were  recorded  against the  following  asset
     categories:

     Property, plant and equipment                    $      25
     Intangible assets:
       Goodwill                                               4
       Reacquired franchise rights                            2
                                                    ---------------
     Total Impairment                                 $      31
                                                    ===============

      In executing our refranchising initiatives,  we most often offer groups of
restaurants.  As discussed in Note 2, we only  consider  the  underlying  stores
"held for disposal" where a group of stores is expected to be sold at a loss.






      The following  table  displays a summary of the 1998  activity  related to
stores  closed  or  held  for  closure  and  stores  refranchised  or  held  for
refranchising.  We believe  that the  remaining  carrying  amounts for  facility
actions are adequate to complete our current plan of disposal.


     The carrying  value of assets held for disposal  (which include  stores,  a
minority  interest  investment  in a non-core  business and our idle  processing
facility in Wichita,  Kansas) by reportable operating segment as of December 26,
1998 and December 27, 1997 were as follows:

                              1998                       1997
                           -----------                -----------
      U.S.                 $     111                  $    149
      International               46                        93
                           -----------                -----------
      Total                $     157                  $    242
                           ===========                ===========

     We  anticipate  that all assets with the possible  exception of the Wichita
facility will be sold within the next twelve months.

     The results of  operations  for stores held for  disposal or disposed of in
1998 and 1997 were as follows:


     We expect that the loss of  restaurant  margin  from the  disposal of these
stores will be mitigated by the increased royalty fees for stores  refranchised,
lower general and  administrative  expenses and reduced interest costs primarily
resulting  from the  reduction of debt by the  after-tax  cash proceeds from our
refranchising  activities.  The margin  reported above includes the benefit from
the suspension of depreciation  and  amortization of  approximately  $37 million
($23  million in the U.S. and $14 million in  International)  and $17 million in
the U.S. in 1998 and 1997, respectively, on assets held for disposal.

Unusual Charges

                         1998              1997                1996
                    ---------------    --------------     ---------------
U.S.                $         11       $        85        $       246
International                  4                99                  -
                    ---------------    --------------     ---------------
Worldwide           $         15       $       184        $       246
                    ===============    ==============     ===============
After-tax           $          3       $       165        $       189
                    ===============    ==============     ===============





     Unusual charges in 1998 included: (1) an increase in the estimated costs of
settlement of certain wage and hour litigation and associated  defense and other
costs  incurred;  (2)  severance  and other  exit  costs  related  to  strategic
decisions to streamline the infrastructure of our international businesses;  (3)
favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge related to anticipated
actions that were not taken,  primarily  severance;  (4) write-down to estimated
fair  market  value less costs to sell of our  minority  interest in a privately
held non-core  business,  previously carried at cost, now held for sale; and (5)
reversals of certain  valuation  allowances  and lease  liabilities  relating to
better-than-expected  proceeds  from the sale of  properties  and  settlement of
lease  liabilities  associated  with  properties  retained  upon  the  sale of a
Non-core Business.

     Unusual charges in 1997 included: (1) $120 million ($125 million after-tax)
of unusual asset  impairment and severance  charges  included in our 1997 fourth
quarter  charge  described  above;  (2) charges to further  reduce the  carrying
amounts of the Non-core  Businesses held for disposal to estimated market value,
less  costs  to  sell;  and (3)  charges  relating  to the  estimated  costs  of
settlement of certain wage and hour  litigation and the  associated  defense and
other costs incurred.

     Unusual  charges  in 1996  resulted  from our  decision  to  dispose of our
Non-core  Businesses.  The charge  represented  the  reduction  of the  carrying
amounts of the Non-core Businesses to estimated fair market value, less costs to
sell.  The  estimated  fair  market  value  was  initially  determined  by using
estimated  selling  prices based upon the opinion of an investment  banking firm
retained to assist in the selling activity.

Note 5 - Franchise and License Fees

     Our franchise and certain  license  arrangements  for our  traditional  and
non-traditional points of distribution,  respectively, provide for initial fees.
The agreements  also require the  franchisee or licensee to pay continuing  fees
based upon a percentage  of sales.  Initial  franchise  fees from  refranchising
activities  arise  from an  initiative  we  adopted  in late 1994 to reduce  our
percentage  ownership  of total  system  units by selling  our stores to new and
existing  franchisees.  We include  initial  franchise  fees from  refranchising
activities as part of refranchising gains.


Initial fees in 1997 include $24 million of special KFC renewal fees.

Note 6 - Property, Plant and Equipment, net

                                                  1998                1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land                                          $      707          $      834
Buildings and improvements                         2,861               3,163
Capital leases, primarily buildings                  124                 152
Machinery and equipment                            1,795               2,040
                                              -------------       -------------
                                                   5,487               6,189
Accumulated depreciation and amortization         (2,491)             (2,720)
Valuation allowances                                (100)               (208)
                                              -------------       -------------
                                              $    2,896          $    3,261
                                              =============       =============



Note 7 - Intangible Assets, net

                                                   1998           1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reacquired franchise rights                    $     418      $     544
Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles        123            132
Goodwill                                             110            136
                                               ------------   -------------
                                               $     651      $     812
                                               ============   =============

     We have  subtracted  accumulated  amortization  of $473  million  and  $508
million and valuation allowances of $18 million and $66 million at year-end 1998
and 1997, respectively, in determining the above amounts.


Note 8 - Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities

                                                   1998           1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accounts payable                               $     476      $     453
Accrued compensation and benefits                    310            297
Other accrued taxes                                   98            103
Other current liabilities                            399            410
                                               ------------   -------------
                                               $   1,283      $   1,263
                                               ============   =============



Note 9 - Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt


We have  included  any  related  discount or premium in the  carrying  amount of
long-term debt.


     On October 2, 1997, we entered into a $5.25  billion bank credit  agreement
comprised  of a $2 billion  senior,  unsecured  Term Loan  Facility  and a $3.25
billion senior, unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (collectively referred to as
the  "Facilities")   which  mature  on  October  2,  2002.  Our  principal  U.S.
Subsidiaries have guaranteed the Facilities.
Amounts  borrowed  under  the  Term  Loan  Facility  that  we  repay  may not be
reborrowed.




     We used $4.5  billion  of the  initial  $4.55  billion  borrowed  under the
Facilities to make a Spin-off related payment to PepsiCo.  We used the remaining
$50  million  of the  proceeds  to  provide  cash  collateral  securing  certain
obligations  previously secured by PepsiCo,  to pay fees and expenses related to
the Spin-off  and  establishment  of the  Facilities  and for general  corporate
purposes.  Interest on amounts  borrowed is payable at least  quarterly at rates
which are  variable,  based  principally  on the London  Interbank  Offered Rate
("LIBOR") plus a variable margin factor as defined in the credit  agreement.  At
December 26, 1998, the weighted  average interest rate on our variable rate debt
was 6.2%,  which  includes  the effects of  associated  interest  rate swaps and
collars.  See Note 11 for a discussion  of our use of interest  rate swaps,  our
management of inherent  credit risk and fair value  information  related to debt
and interest rate swaps.

     At  December  26,  1998,  we had  unused  borrowings  available  under  the
Revolving Credit Facility of $1.3 billion,  net of outstanding letters of credit
of  $173  million.  Once  we have  repaid  the  Term  Loan  in  full,  mandatory
prepayments may be required of the Revolving  Credit Facility which would reduce
the amount available. Absent this circumstance, under the terms of the Revolving
Credit Facility,  we may borrow up to $3.25 billion less outstanding  letters of
credit until maturity.  We pay a facility fee on the Revolving  Credit Facility.
The variable margin factor and facility fee rate is determined based on the more
favorable of our leverage ratio or third-party senior debt ratings as defined in
the agreement. Facility fees accrued at December 26, 1998 were $1.7 million.

     The  Facilities  are  subject  to  various  covenants  including  financial
covenants relating to maintenance of specific leverage and fixed charge coverage
ratios. In addition,  the Facilities contain  affirmative and negative covenants
including,  among other things,  limitations on certain additional  indebtedness
including  guarantees  of  indebtedness,   cash  dividends,  aggregate  non-U.S.
investment and certain other  transactions,  as defined in the agreement.  Since
October 6, 1997, we have complied with all covenants  governing the  Facilities.
The Facilities  contain  mandatory  prepayment  terms for certain capital market
transactions and refranchising of restaurants as defined in the agreement.

     In 1997,  we filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  a shelf
registration  statement  with respect to offerings of up to $2 billion of senior
unsecured  debt. In May 1998, we issued $350 million 7.45%  Unsecured  Notes due
May  15,  2005  and  $250  million  7.65%  Unsecured  Notes  due  May  15,  2008
(collectively referred to as the "Notes"). We used the proceeds, net of issuance
costs, to reduce existing  borrowings  under the Facilities.  We carry the Notes
net of related discounts,  which are being amortized over the life of the Notes.
The  unamortized  discount  for both issues was  approximately  $1.1  million at
December 26, 1998 and the amortization during 1998 was not significant. Interest
is payable  May 15 and  November  15 and  commenced  on November  15,  1998.  In
anticipation  of the  issuance  of the Notes,  we entered  into $600  million in
treasury locks (the "Locks") to reduce  interest rate  sensitivity in pricing of
the Notes.  Concurrent with the issuance of the Notes, the Locks were settled at
a gain, which is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the Notes.
The  effective  interest  rate on the 2005  Notes and the 2008 Notes is 7.6% and
7.8%, respectively.

     Interest  expense on the short-term  borrowings and long-term debt was $291
million,  $290  million and $310 million in 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.
Interest  expense in 1997 and 1996 included the PepsiCo  interest  allocation of
$188 million and $275 million, respectively.

     The annual  maturities of long-term  debt through 2003,  excluding  capital
lease obligations, are 1999 - $34 million; 2000 - $4 million; 2001 - $2 million;
2002 - $2.72 billion; 2003 - $1 million; and $604 million thereafter.





Note 10 - Leases

     We  have  non-cancelable  commitments  under  both  capital  and  long-term
operating  leases,  primarily for our  restaurants.  Capital and operating lease
commitments expire at various dates through 2087 and, in many cases, provide for
rent  escalations  and renewal  options.  Most leases  require us to pay related
executory costs, which include property taxes, maintenance and insurance.

Future minimum commitments and sublease receivables under non-cancelable  leases
are set forth below:

                           Commitments                 Sublease Receivables
                ------------------------------    ------------------------------
                                                     Direct        
                  Capital        Operating         Financing         Operating
                -----------    --------------     -------------     ------------

1999            $      22      $      227         $        2        $       14
2000                   21             194                  2                12
2001                   20             171                  2                11
2002                   18             152                  2                 9
2003                   18             130                  2                 8
Thereafter            128             704                 12                43
                -----------    --------------     -------------     ------------
                $     227      $    1,578         $       22        $       97
                ===========    ==============     =============     ============


     At year-end  1998,  the present  value of minimum  payments  under  capital
leases was $117  million,  after  deducting  $110 million  representing  imputed
interest.

The details of rental expense and income are set forth below:

                                 1998           1997             1996
                             -----------   ------------     ------------
   Rental expense
     Minimum                 $     308     $     341        $     333
     Contingent                     25            30               32
                             -----------   ------------     ------------
                             $     333     $     371        $     365
                             ===========   ============     ============

   Minimum rental income     $      18     $      19        $      16
                             ===========   ============     ============

Contingent  rentals are based on sales  levels in excess of  stipulated  amounts
contained in the lease agreements.

Note 11 - Financial Instruments

Derivative Instruments
- ----------------------

     Our  policy  prohibits  the  use  of  derivative  instruments  for  trading
purposes,  and we have  procedures in place to monitor and control their use. As
of December 26, 1998, our use of derivative  instruments was limited to interest
rate swaps and collars  entered into with financial  institutions  and commodity
futures contracts traded on national exchanges.

     We enter  into  interest  rate  swaps and  collars  with the  objective  of
reducing our exposure to interest  rate risk.  During 1998 and 1997,  we entered
into interest rate swaps to  effectively  convert a portion of our variable rate
bank debt to fixed rate.  Reset dates and the floating rate indices on the swaps
match  those of the  underlying  bank  debt.  Accordingly,  any  market  risk or
opportunity associated with swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the
related debt. At December 26, 1998, we had outstanding  interest rate swaps with




notional  amounts  of $1.2  billion.  Under the  contracts,  we agree with other
parties to exchange,  at specified  intervals,  the difference  between variable
rate and fixed rate  amounts  calculated  on a  notional  principal  amount.  At
December 26, 1998, our average pay rate was 5.9%. Our payables under the related
swaps  aggregated $1.6 million at December 26, 1998. The swaps mature at various
dates through 2001.

     During 1998, we entered into interest rate collars to reduce  interest rate
sensitivity  on a portion of our variable rate bank debt.  Interest rate collars
effectively  lock in a range of interest rates by  establishing a cap and floor.
Reset dates and the floating  index on the collars match those of the underlying
bank debt.  If interest  rates  remain  within the  collared  cap and floor,  no
payments are made. If rates rise above the cap level,  we receive a payment.  If
rates fall below the floor level,  we make a payment.  At December 26, 1998,  we
had  outstanding  interest rate collars with  notional  amounts of $700 million.
Under the contracts,  we agree with other parties to exchange, as required,  the
difference  between  the  effective  LIBOR rate and the cap or floor rate if the
effective LIBOR rates fall outside the collared range. At December 26, 1998, our
average pay rate on collars was 5.4%.  Our  payables  under the related  collars
were immaterial and there were no related  receivables at December 26, 1998. The
collars mature at various dates through 1999.

     Our credit risk from the swap and collar  agreements  is dependent  both on
the movement in interest rates and possibility of non-payment by counterparties.
We mitigate  credit risk by entering  into these  agreements  with  high-quality
counterparties,  netting swap payments  within  contracts and limiting  payments
associated with the collars to differences outside the collared range.

     Open commodity  future  contracts and deferred gains and losses at year-end
1998 and 1997,  as well as gains and losses  recognized as part of cost of sales
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, were not significant.

Fair Value
- ----------

     Excluding  the  financial  instruments  included  in the table  below,  the
carrying amounts of our financial instruments approximate fair value.

     The carrying amounts and fair values of TRICON's financial  instruments are
as follows:



     We estimated the fair value of debt,  debt-related  derivative  instruments
and guarantees using market quotes and  calculations  based on market rates. See
Note 18 for  recently  issued  accounting  pronouncements  relating to financial
instruments.




Note 12 - Pension Plans and Postretirement Medical Benefits

     We  sponsor   noncontributory   defined   benefit  pension  plans  covering
substantially all full-time U.S. salaried employees and certain hourly employees
and noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain international
employees.  In  addition,  we provide  postretirement  health  care  benefits to
eligible  retired  employees  and  their  dependents,  principally  in the  U.S.
Salaried retirees who have 10 years of service and attain age 55 are eligible to
participate in the  postretirement  benefit plans;  since 1994, these plans have
included retiree cost sharing provisions. Prior to the Spin-off, PepsiCo covered
the participants with plans that had similar  benefits.  Under an agreement with
PepsiCo,   we  have  assumed  or  retained   pension   liabilities   related  to
substantially  all of our  participants.  Assets of the PepsiCo  plans have been
allocated  and  transferred  in  accordance  with  regulatory  rules between the
PepsiCo plans and our plans. We base benefits  generally on years of service and
compensation or stated amounts for each year of service.






The assumptions used to compute the information above are set forth below:


     We have  assumed  the annual  increase  in cost of  postretirement  medical
benefits  was 6.5% in 1998 and will be 6.5% in 1999.  We are  assuming  the rate
will decrease  0.5% for 2000 and 2001,  reaching an ultimate rate of 5.5% in the
year 2001 and  remain at that  level  thereafter.  We  implemented  a cap on our
medical liability for certain retirees,  which is expected to be reached between
the years 2001-2004; at that point our cost will not increase.




     Assumed  health  care cost  trend  rates have a  significant  effect on the
amounts reported for our postretirement  health care plans. The effects of a one
percentage  point  increase or  decrease  in the assumed  health care cost trend
rates on postretirement  benefit  obligations are $1.4 million and $1.3 million,
respectively.  The effects of a one percentage point increase or decrease in the
assumed  health  care  cost  trend  rates on total  service  and  interest  cost
components are not significant.

     Accounting for pensions  requires us to develop an assumed interest rate on
securities with which the pension  liabilities could be effectively  settled. In
estimating  this  discount  rate,  we look at rates of  return  on  high-quality
corporate  fixed  income  securities  currently  available  and  expected  to be
available  during the  period to  maturity  of the  pension  benefits.  As it is
impractical to find an investment  portfolio which exactly matches the estimated
payment stream of the pension benefits,  we often have projected short-term cash
surpluses.  In 1998,  we changed  the method for  determining  our  pension  and
postretirement  medical  benefit  discount  rate to better  reflect  the assumed
investment  strategies  we would most likely use to invest any  short-term  cash
surpluses.  Previously,  we assumed that all short-term  cash surpluses would be
invested in U.S.  government  securities.  Our new methodology  assumes that our
investment   strategies  would  be  equally  divided  between  U.S.   government
securities  and  high-quality   corporate  fixed  income  securities.   Our  new
methodology  resulted in a reduction  of  approximately  $24 million in our 1998
accumulated benefit obligation as compared to the previous method. Our change in
methodology had no effect on our 1998 net income.

Note 13 - Employee Stock-Based Compensation

         At year-end  1998, we had three stock option plans in effect:  the 1997
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  ("LTIP"),   the  TRICON  Global  Restaurants,   Inc.
Restaurant  General Manager Stock Option Plan ("YUMBUCKS") and the TRICON Global
Restaurants,  Inc.  SharePower  Plan  ("SharePower").  We may grant  options  to
purchase up to 22.5  million  shares of stock under the LTIP at a price equal to
or greater than the average market price of the stock on the date of grant.  New
options we grant can have  varying  vesting  provisions  and  exercise  periods.
Options granted vest in periods ranging from immediate to 2006 and expire ten to
fourteen  years after  grant.  Potential  awards to employees  and  non-employee
directors  under the LTIP include stock options,  performance  restricted  stock
units,  incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock.
We have issued only stock options and performance  restricted  stock units under
the LTIP.  We may grant  options to purchase  up to 7.5 million  shares of stock
under  YUMBUCKS at a price equal to or greater than the average  market price of
the  stock on the date of  grant.  YUMBUCKS  options  granted  have a four  year
vesting period and expire ten years after grant.  We do not anticipate  that any
further  grants will be made pursuant to the  SharePower  plan although  options
previously granted could be outstanding through 2006.

     At the  Spin-off  Date,  we converted  certain of the  unvested  options to
purchase  PepsiCo  stock that were held by our employees to TRICON stock options
under  either the LTIP or the  SharePower  plan.  We  converted  the  options at
amounts and  exercise  prices that  maintained  the amount of  unrealized  stock
appreciation that existed  immediately prior to the Spin-off.  The vesting dates
and exercise  periods of the options were not affected by the conversion.  Based
on their  original  PepsiCo grant date,  our  converted  options vest in periods
ranging from one to ten years and expire ten to fifteen years after grant.




     Had we  determined  compensation  cost  for all  TRICON  option  grants  to
employees and  non-employee  directors  consistent with SFAS 123, our net income
(loss) and basic and diluted  earnings  per Common Share would have been reduced
(increased) to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                 1998                 1997
                                            ----------------     ---------------
Net Income (Loss)
  As reported                               $       445          $    (111)
  Pro forma                                         422               (112)

Basic Earnings per Common Share
  As reported                               $      2.92
  Pro forma                                        2.77

Diluted Earnings per Common Share
  As reported                               $      2.84
  Pro forma                                        2.70

     SFAS 123 pro forma loss per Common Share data for 1997 is not meaningful as
we were not an independent, publicly owned company prior to the Spin-off.

     The  effects  of  applying  SFAS 123 in the pro forma  disclosures  are not
likely to be  representative  of the  effects on pro forma net income for future
years because variables such as the number of option grants, exercises and stock
price  volatility  included in the  disclosures  may not be indicative of future
activity.

     We estimated  the fair value of each option grant made during 1998 and 1997
subsequent  to the  Spin-off  as of the date of grant  using  the  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

                                              1998                   1997
                                        -----------------      -----------------
        Risk-free interest rate               5.5%                   5.8%
        Expected life (years)                 6.0                    6.6
        Expected volatility                  28.8%                  27.5%
        Expected dividend yield               0.0%                   0.0%




     A  summary  of  the  status  of  all  options   granted  to  employees  and
non-employee  directors  as of December  26, 1998 and  December  27,  1997,  and
changes  during the years then ended is  presented  below:  (tabular  options in
thousands)


     The following table summarizes  information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December 26, 1998:


     In November  1997, we granted two awards of  performance  restricted  stock
units of TRICON's Common Stock to our Vice  Chairman/President.  The awards were
made  under  the LTIP and may be paid in  Common  Stock of TRICON or cash at the
discretion of the Board of Directors. Payments of the awards of $2.7 million and
$3.6  million  are  contingent  upon  the  Vice  Chairman/President's  continued
employment through January 25, 2001 and 2006,  respectively,  and our attainment
of certain  pre-established  earnings  thresholds,  as defined. We expense these
awards over the performance  periods  stipulated  above;  the amount included in
earnings in 1998 and 1997 was $1.3 million and $150,000, respectively.




Note 14 - Other Compensation and Benefit Programs

     We sponsor a  contributory  plan to provide  retirement  benefits under the
provision of Section  401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code  ("401(k)  Plan") for
eligible full-time U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees.  Participants may
elect to contribute up to 15% of their eligible  compensation on a pretax basis.
We are  not  required  to make  contributions  to the  Plan.  In  1998,  a Stock
Ownership  Program  ("YUMSOP")  was added to the TRICON Common Stock  investment
option.   Under  YUMSOP,  we  make  a  partial   discretionary   match  of  each
participant's  contribution  to the TRICON  Common Stock Fund.  We determine our
percentage match at the beginning of each year based on the immediate prior year
performance of our Core Businesses.

      In addition,  we sponsor two deferred  compensation benefit programs,  the
Executive Income Deferral Program and the Restaurant Deferred  Compensation Plan
(the "EID Plan" and the "RDC  Plan") for  eligible  employees  and  non-employee
directors.  These plans allow  participants to defer receipt of all or a portion
of their annual  salary and  incentive  compensation.  As defined by the benefit
programs,  we  credit  the  amounts  deferred  with  earnings  based on  certain
investment options selected by the participants. We expense the earnings amounts
as incurred.  Our obligations  under these programs as of year-end 1998 and 1997
were $70 million and $37 million, respectively.

     In late 1997,  we  introduced  a new  investment  option  for both  benefit
programs allowing participants to defer certain incentive  compensation into the
purchase  of  phantom  shares of our  Common  Stock at a 25%  discount  from the
average  market  price at the date of  deferral.  Participants  bear the risk of
forfeiture  of both the  discount and any amounts  deferred if they  voluntarily
separate  from  employment  during the two year vesting  period.  We expense the
intrinsic value of the discount over the vesting period.

     We will phase in certain structural changes to the EID Plan during 1999 and
2000. These changes include limiting phantom  investment  options,  primarily to
our Common Stock,  and requiring the  distribution  of investments in the TRICON
Common  Stock  option  to be paid in shares of our  Common  Stock.  Due to these
structural  changes,  in 1998 we agreed to pay a one time  premium on January 1,
2000 to  participants  with an account  balance as of  December  31,  1999.  The
premium payment will equal 10% of the participant's  account balance,  excluding
investments  in  discount  stock  option  and  1999  deferrals,  as of the  date
specified by the EID Plan.

     During 1998,  RDC  participants  also became  eligible to purchase  phantom
shares of our Common Stock under YUMSOP as defined above.

     We expensed $22 million,  including the estimated  premium  payment for the
EID  Plan,  for  1998 and  insignificant  amounts  for  1997 and 1996 for  these
programs.

Note 15 - Shareholders' Rights Plan

     On July 21, 1998, our Board of Directors  declared a dividend  distribution
of one right for each  share of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of August 3, 1998
(the "Record  Date").  Each right  initially  entitles the registered  holder to
purchase a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share (a "Unit") of Series
A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock, without par value, at a purchase price
of $130 per Unit,  subject to adjustment.  The rights,  which do not have voting
rights, will become exercisable for our Common Stock ten business days following
a public  announcement that a person or group has acquired,  or has commenced or
intends to  commence a tender  offer  for,  15% or more,  or 20% or more if such
person or group  owned 10% or more on the  adoption  date of this  plan,  of our
Common Stock. In the event the rights become  exercisable for Common Stock, each
right will entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person as defined in the
Agreement)  to purchase,  at the right's  then-current  exercise  price,  TRICON
Common  Stock having a value of twice the  exercise  price of the right.  In the
event the rights  become  exercisable  for Common  Stock and  thereafter  we are



acquired in a merger or other business combination,  each right will entitle its
holder to purchase,  at the right's then-current exercise price, common stock of
the acquiring company having a value of twice the exercise price of the right.

     We can redeem the rights in their entirety,  prior to becoming exercisable,
at $0.01 per right under certain specified conditions. The rights expire on July
21, 2008,  unless we extend that date or we have  earlier  redeemed or exchanged
the rights as provided in the Agreement.

     This description of the rights is qualified in its entirety by reference to
the Rights Agreement between TRICON and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, dated
as of July 21, 1998 (including the exhibits thereto).

Note 16 - Income Taxes

     The details of our income tax provision are set forth below:

                                    1998             1997              1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
Current:      Federal          $     231        $     106          $     154
              Foreign                 55               77                 93
              State                   22               31                 28
                               -----------      -----------        ------------
                                     308              214                275
                               -----------      -----------        ------------
Deferred:     Federal                 (2)             (66)              (127)
              Foreign                 10              (59)                (5)
              State                   (5)             (13)               (18)
                               -----------      -----------        ------------
                                       3             (138)              (150)
                               -----------      -----------        ------------
                               $     311        $      76          $     125
                               ===========      ===========        ============


     Our U.S. and foreign income (loss) before income taxes are set forth below:

                                    1998             1997              1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S.                           $     542        $      13          $     (21)
Foreign                              214              (48)                93
                               -------------    -------------      ------------
                               $     756        $     (35)         $      72
                               =============    =============      ============





     Our  reconciliation  of income  taxes  calculated  at the U.S.  Federal tax
statutory rate to our income tax provision is set forth below:



     The details of our 1998 and 1997 deferred tax liabilities  (assets) are set
forth below:

                                                           1998         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment      $    243    $    253
Other                                                           8           5
                                                         ---------   ---------
Gross deferred tax liabilities                           $    251    $    258
                                                         =========   =========

Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards          $   (107)   $    (89)
Employee benefits                                             (58)        (48)
Self-insured casualty claims                                  (46)        (57)
Stores held for disposal                                      (62)       (105)
Various liabilities and other                                (183)       (141)
                                                         ---------   ---------
Gross deferred tax assets                                    (456)       (440)
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance                       133         111
                                                         ---------   ---------
Net deferred tax assets                                      (323)       (329)
                                                         ---------   ---------
Net deferred tax (asset) liability                       $    (72)   $    (71)
                                                         =========   =========

Included in:
Prepaid expenses, deferred income taxes and 
  other current assets                                   $   (137)   $    (92)
Other assets                                                    -         (12)
Deferred income taxes                                          65          33
                                                         ---------   ---------
                                                         $    (72)   $    (71)
                                                         ========    =========

     Our  valuation  allowance  related to deferred tax assets  increased by $22
million in 1998  primarily  due to additions  related to current year  operating
losses and temporary differences in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions.

     A determination  of the  unrecognized  deferred tax liability for temporary
differences  related to our  investments  in foreign  subsidiaries  and  foreign
corporate  joint  ventures  that are  essentially  permanent  in duration is not
practicable.



     We have available net operating loss carryforwards totaling $625 million at
year-end  1998 to reduce  future tax of TRICON  and  certain  subsidiaries.  The
carryforwards  are  related to a number of foreign and state  jurisdictions.  Of
these  carryforwards,  $37  million  expire in 1999 and $554  million  expire at
various times between 2000 and 2013. The remaining $34 million of  carryforwards
do not expire.

Note 17 - Reportable Operating Segments

     We are  engaged  principally  in  developing,  operating,  franchising  and
licensing  the  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut  and  Taco  Bell  concepts.  We also
previously  operated  the  Non-core  Businesses,  all of which were sold in 1997
prior to the Spin-off.

     KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell operate  throughout the U.S. and in 80, 88 and
12  countries  and  territories  outside  the  U.S.,   respectively.   Principal
international  markets include Australia,  Canada,  China, Japan, Mexico, Puerto
Rico and the U.K. At year-end  1998,  we had 12  investments  in  unconsolidated
affiliates outside the U.S. which operate KFC and/or Pizza Hut restaurants,  the
most  significant of which are corporate  joint ventures  located in Japan,  the
U.K. and China.

     We identify  our  operating  segments  based on  management  responsibility
within the U.S.  and  International.  For  purposes  of  applying  SFAS 131,  we
consider our U.S. Core  Businesses to be similar and have aggregated them into a
single reportable operating segment.  Other than the U.S., no individual country
represented 10% or more of our total revenues, profits or assets.












(a)  Results  from the  United  States in 1997 and 1996  included  the  Non-core
     Businesses disposed of in 1997. Excluding the unusual disposal charges, the
     Non-core Businesses contributed the following:

                                            1997                   1996
                                       --------------         -------------
       Revenues                        $     268              $    394
       Operating profit (loss)                13                   (10)
       Interest expense, net                   3                     5
       Income before income taxes             10                   (15)
(b)  Included  equity income of  unconsolidated  affiliates  of $18 million,  $8
     million and $7 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
(c)  See Note 4 for a discussion and breakout by reportable operating segment of
     facility actions net gain (loss) and unusual charges.
(d)  Corporate  and  unallocated  expenses  increased in 1998  primarily  due to
     spending on Year 2000 compliance and remediation efforts, costs to relocate
     our  processing  center  from  Wichita  to other  facilities  and  expenses
     incurred as an  independent,  publicly  owned company as well as additional
     expenses  related to the efforts to improve and  standardize our operating,
     administrative and accounting systems.
(e)  Included amounts  allocated by PepsiCo prior to the Spin-off of $37 million
     and $53  million in 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  related  to general  and
     administrative expenses and $188 million and $275 million in 1997 and 1996,
     respectively, related to interest expense.
(f)  Included  investment in  unconsolidated  affiliates  of $159 million,  $143
     million and $228 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
(g)  Included restricted cash,  capitalized debt issuance costs, advances to our
     voluntary employees' beneficiary  association trust, leasehold improvements
     in certain of our office facilities and non-core assets held for sale.



     See  Note  4  for  additional  operating  segment  disclosures  related  to
impairment,  suspension of depreciation and amortization and the carrying amount
of assets held for disposal.

     The 1997 and 1996 financial data we reported above is materially consistent
with restaurant  segment  information  previously  reported by PepsiCo.  We made
adjustments  to these amounts  primarily to remove the impact of the  restaurant
distribution  business previously included by PepsiCo in its restaurant segment,
and to include the investment in and our equity income (loss) of  unconsolidated
affiliates  within the international  segment.  We made this change to align our
reporting  with the way we internally  review and make  decisions  regarding our
international business.

Note 18 - New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted

     a.   Accounting  for the Costs of Computer  Software  Developed or Obtained
          for Internal Use

     Statement  of  Position  98-1  (SOP  98-1),  "Accounting  for the  Costs of
Computer  Software  Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," was issued in March
1998.  SOP 98-1  identifies the  characteristics  of  internal-use  software and
specifies that once the preliminary project stage is complete,  certain external
direct costs,  certain direct  internal  payroll and  payroll-related  costs and
interest costs incurred during the development of computer software for internal
use should be  capitalized  and  amortized.  SOP 98-1 is effective for financial
statements  for fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  1998 and must be
applied to internal-use  computer  software costs incurred in those fiscal years
for all projects,  including those projects in progress upon initial application
of this SOP. We currently expense all these costs as incurred.

     b.  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").
This Statement  establishes  accounting and reporting  standards  requiring that
every derivative instrument  (including certain derivative  instruments embedded
in other  contracts)  be  recorded  in the  balance  sheet as either an asset or
liability  measured at its fair value.  This Statement  requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized  currently in earnings unless specific
hedge  accounting  criteria are met.  Special  accounting for qualifying  hedges
allows a  derivative's  gains and  losses to offset the  related  change in fair
value on the hedged item in the income  statement,  and requires  that a company
must formally  document,  designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions
that receive hedge accounting.

     SFAS 133 is  effective  for fiscal years  beginning  after June 15, 1999. A
company may also  implement  the  Statement  as of the  beginning  of any fiscal
quarter after  issuance  (that is, fiscal  quarters  beginning June 16, 1998 and
thereafter).  SFAS 133 cannot be applied  retroactively.  When adopted, SFAS 133
must  be  applied  to (a)  derivative  instruments  and (b)  certain  derivative
instruments  embedded  in  hybrid  contracts  that  were  issued,  acquired,  or
substantively  modified after December 31, 1997 (and, at the company's election,
before January 1, 1998).

     We have  not  yet  quantified  the  effects  of  adopting  SFAS  133 on our
financial  statements or  determined  the timing of or method of our adoption of
SFAS 133. However,  the Statement could increase  volatility in our earnings and
other comprehensive income.






Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies

     Relationship with PepsiCo After Spin-off

     After the Spin-off,  PepsiCo had no ownership  interest in us.  Immediately
after the  Spin-off,  however,  certain of our shares  were held by the  PepsiCo
pension trust on behalf of PepsiCo  employees.  We entered into  separation  and
other related agreements (the "Separation Agreement"), outlined below, governing
the Spin-off  transaction and our subsequent  relationship  with PepsiCo.  These
agreements  provide  certain  indemnities  to the  parties,  and provide for the
allocation of tax and other assets,  liabilities  and  obligations  arising from
periods prior to the Spin-off. In addition, prior to the Spin-off, our U.S. Core
Businesses each entered into a multi-year  agreement with Pepsi-Cola  Company, a
wholly owned subsidiary of PepsiCo, regarding the purchase of beverage products.
Prior to the Spin-off and PepsiCo's  sale to Ameriserve of PFS, our primary U.S.
food  and  supplies  distributor,   our  Core  Businesses  signed  a  multi-year
distribution  agreement with PFS. Neither contract is for quantities expected to
exceed normal usage.

     The Separation  Agreement  provided for, among other things, our assumption
of all  liabilities  relating to the  restaurant  businesses,  inclusive  of the
Non-core  Businesses,  and our  indemnification of PepsiCo with respect to these
liabilities.  We have included our best  estimates of these  liabilities  in the
accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements.  Subsequent to Spin-off, claims
have been made by certain Non-core  Business  franchisees and a purchaser of one
of the businesses.  We are disputing the validity of these claims;  however,  we
believe that any  settlement  of these claims at amounts in excess of previously
recorded  liabilities  is not  likely to have a material  adverse  effect on our
results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     In  addition,  we must pay a fee to  PepsiCo  for all  letters  of  credit,
guarantees and  contingent  liabilities  relating to our businesses  under which
PepsiCo  remains  liable.  This  obligation  ends at the time they are released,
terminated or replaced by a qualified  letter of credit covering the full amount
of  contingencies  under  the  letters  of  credit,  guarantees  and  contingent
liabilities.  Our fee payments to PepsiCo during 1998 were  immaterial.  We have
also indemnified PepsiCo for any costs or losses it incurs with respect to these
letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities.

     Under  the  separation  agreements,  PepsiCo  maintains  full  control  and
absolute  discretion with regard to any combined or consolidated tax filings for
periods  through the  Spin-off  Date.  PepsiCo also  maintains  full control and
absolute discretion regarding any common tax audit issues.  Although PepsiCo has
contractually agreed to, in good faith, use its best efforts to settle all joint
interests in any common audit issue on a basis  consistent  with prior practice,
there can be no assurance that  determinations made by PepsiCo would be the same
as we  would  reach,  acting  on our own  behalf.  We  have  agreed  to  certain
restrictions  on future  actions to help ensure that the Spin-off  maintains its
tax-free status. Our restrictions  include,  among other things,  limitations on
our liquidation, merger or consolidation with another company, certain issuances
and redemptions of our Common Stock, our granting of stock options and our sale,
refranchising,  distribution or other disposition of assets. If we fail to abide
by these  restrictions  or to obtain waivers from PepsiCo and, as a result,  the
Spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free reorganization,  we will be obligated to
indemnify PepsiCo for any resulting tax liability which could be substantial. We
have  not  been  required  to  make  any  payments   under  these   indemnities.
Additionally,  under  the  terms of the tax  separation  agreement,  PepsiCo  is
entitled to the federal  income tax benefits  related to the exercise  after the
Spin-off of vested PepsiCo options held by our employees.




     Other Commitments and Contingencies

     We were directly or indirectly  contingently  liable in the amounts of $327
million and $302 million at year-end  1998 and 1997,  respectively,  for certain
lease   assignments  and  guarantees.   In  connection  with  these   contingent
liabilities,  after  the  Spin-off  Date,  we were  required  to  maintain  cash
collateral balances at certain institutions of approximately $30 million,  which
is included in Other Assets in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. At
year-end 1998, $261 million represented  contingent  liabilities to lessors as a
result of assigning our interest in and obligations  under real estate leases as
a  condition  to the  refranchising  of Company  restaurants.  The $261  million
represented  the present value of the minimum  payments of the assigned  leases,
excluding any renewal option periods, discounted at our pre-tax cost of debt. On
a nominal basis, the contingent liability resulting from the assigned leases was
$385 million.  The balance of the  contingent  liabilities  primarily  reflected
guarantees  to  support   financial   arrangements  of  certain   unconsolidated
affiliates and other restaurant franchisees.

     We are  currently,  and for a significant  portion of the three years ended
December  26,  1998,  have  been,  effectively  self-insured  for most  workers'
compensation,  general liability and automobile liability losses, subject to per
occurrence  and aggregate  annual  liability  limitations.  During the first two
quarters of 1997,  prior to the  Spin-off,  we  participated  with  PepsiCo in a
guaranteed  cost  program  for  certain  coverages.   We  are  also  effectively
self-insured for health care claims for eligible participating employees subject
to certain deductibles and limitations.  We determine our liabilities for claims
reported and for claims incurred but not reported based on information  provided
by independent actuaries.

     In July  1998,  we entered  into  severance  agreements  with  certain  key
executives which are triggered by a termination,  under certain  conditions,  of
the  executive  following a change in control of the Company,  as defined in the
agreements.  Once  triggered,  the affected  executives  would receive twice the
amount of their  annual base salary and their  annual  incentive  in a lump sum,
outplacement  services and a tax gross-up for any excise taxes.  The  agreements
expire  December  31,  2000.  Since  the  timing  of any  payments  under  these
agreements cannot be anticipated, the amounts are not estimable.  However, these
payments,  if made,  could be  substantial.  In connection with the execution of
these  agreements,  the  Compensation  Committee of our Board of  Directors  has
authorized  amendment  of the  deferred and  incentive  compensation  plans and,
following a change in control,  an  establishment  of rabbi trusts which will be
used to provide  payouts under these  deferred  compensation  plans  following a
change in control.

     We are subject to various  claims and  contingencies  related to  lawsuits,
taxes,  environmental  and other  matters  arising  out of the normal  course of
business.  Like  some  other  large  retail  employers,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
recently  have  been  faced  in a  few  states  with  allegations  of  purported
class-wide wage and hour violations.

     On May 11, 1998, a purported  class action lawsuit against Pizza Hut, Inc.,
and one of its franchisees,  PacPizza,  LLC, entitled  Aguardo,  et al. v. Pizza
Hut, Inc., et al.  ("Aguardo"),  was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California of the County of San Francisco. The lawsuit was filed by three former
Pizza Hut  restaurant  general  managers  purporting to represent  approximately
1,300 current and former California restaurant general managers of Pizza Hut and
PacPizza.  The lawsuit alleges  violations of state wage and hour laws involving
unpaid  overtime  wages  and  vacation  pay and seeks an  unspecified  amount in
damages.  This lawsuit is in the early discovery  phase. A trial date of October
28, 1999 has been set.





     On  October  2, 1996,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled Mynaf, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Mynaf"),  was filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California  of the County of Santa Clara.  The lawsuit was
filed  by two  former  restaurant  general  managers  and two  former  assistant
restaurant general managers  purporting to represent all current and former Taco
Bell restaurant  general managers and assistant  restaurant  general managers in
California.  The lawsuit  alleges  violations of  California  wage and hour laws
involving  unpaid overtime wages. The complaint also includes an unfair business
practices claim. The four named plaintiffs claim individual damages ranging from
$10,000 to $100,000 each. On September 17, 1998, the court  certified a class of
approximately 3,000 current and former assistant restaurant general managers and
restaurant general managers.  Taco Bell petitioned the appellate court to review
the trial court's  certification  order. The petition was denied on December 31,
1998. Taco Bell has filed a petition for review to the California  Supreme Court
which is currently pending. No trial date has been set.

     Plaintiffs in the Aguardo and Mynaf  lawsuits  seek damages,  penalties and
costs of litigation,  including  attorneys'  fees, and also seek declaratory and
injunctive relief. We intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits.  However,  the
outcome of these lawsuits  cannot be predicted at this time. We believe that the
ultimate  liability,  if any,  arising from such claims or  contingencies is not
likely to have a material  adverse  effect on our annual  results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows. It is, however,  reasonably possible that any
ultimate liability could be material to our year-over-year growth in earnings in
the quarter and year recorded.

     On August  29,  1997,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled  Bravo, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Bravo"),  was filed in the Circuit
Court of the State of Oregon of the County of  Multnomah.  The lawsuit was filed
by two former Taco Bell shift  managers  purporting  to represent  approximately
16,000  current and former  hourly  employees  statewide.  The  lawsuit  alleges
violations  of state  wage and hour laws,  principally  involving  unpaid  wages
including  overtime,  and  rest  and  meal  period  violations,   and  seeks  an
unspecified amount in damages.  Under Oregon class action procedures,  Taco Bell
was allowed an  opportunity  to "cure" the unpaid wage and hour  allegations  by
opening a claims process to all putative class members prior to certification of
the class.  In this cure process,  Taco Bell has currently paid out less than $1
million.  On January 26,  1999,  the Court  certified a class of all current and
former  shift  managers  and crew  members  who claim one or more of the alleged
violations.

     On February 10, 1995, a class action  lawsuit,  entitled  Ryder,  et al. v.
Taco  Bell  Corp.  ("Ryder"),  was filed in the  Superior  Court of the State of
Washington for King County on behalf of approximately  16,000 current and former
Taco Bell employees  claiming unpaid wages resulting from alleged uniform,  rest
and meal  period  violations  and  unpaid  overtime.  In April  1996,  the Court
certified the class for purposes of injunctive relief and a finding on the issue
of  liability.  The trial was held during the first quarter of 1997 and resulted
in a  liability  finding.  In August  1997,  the Court  certified  the class for
purposes  of  damages as well.  Prior to the  damages  phase of the  trial,  the
parties reached a court-approved settlement process in April 1998.

     We  have  provided  for  the  estimated   costs  of  the  Bravo  and  Ryder
litigations, based on a projection of eligible claims, the cost of each eligible
claim and the  estimated  legal fees  incurred  by  plaintiffs.  We believe  the
ultimate  cost of the  Bravo and Ryder  cases in excess of the  amounts  already
provided  will not be material to our annual  results of  operations,  financial
condition, or cash flows.




Note 20 - Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



(a)  Earnings  per share data has not been  provided  for  periods  prior to the
     fourth quarter of 1997 as our capital structure as an independent, publicly
     owned company did not exist prior to the Spin-off.


See Note 4 for details of facility actions net gain (loss) and unusual charges.






Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements

To Our Shareholders:

     We are responsible for the preparation,  integrity and fair presentation of
the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  related  notes and other  information
included  in this annual  report.  The  financial  statements  were  prepared in
accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and include certain
amounts based upon our estimates and assumptions,  as required.  Other financial
information  presented  in the  annual  report  is  derived  from the  financial
statements.

     We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, designed
to  provide  reasonable  assurance  as  to  the  reliability  of  the  financial
statements, as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition.
The system is supported by formal policies and  procedures,  including an active
Code of Conduct  program  intended  to ensure  employees  adhere to the  highest
standards of personal and  professional  integrity.  Our internal audit function
monitors and reports on the adequacy of and compliance with the internal control
system,  and  appropriate  actions  are  taken to  address  significant  control
deficiencies  and  other  opportunities  for  improving  the  system as they are
identified.

     The  financial  statements  have  been  audited  and  reported  on  by  our
independent  auditors,  KPMG LLP,  who were given free  access to all  financial
records  and related  data,  including  minutes of the  meetings of the Board of
Directors   and   Committees   of  the  Board.   We  believe   that   management
representations made to the independent auditors were valid and appropriate.

     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,  which is composed solely of
outside directors, provides oversight to our financial reporting process and our
controls to safeguard  assets  through  periodic  meetings with our  independent
auditors,  internal auditors and management.  Both our independent  auditors and
internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee.

     Although no cost-effective internal control system will preclude all errors
and  irregularities,  we believe our  controls as of December  26, 1998  provide
reasonable assurance that our assets are reasonably safeguarded.







Robert C. Lowes
Chief Financial Officer









Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:

     We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet of TRICON
Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries ("TRICON") as of December 26, 1998 and
December 27, 1997, and the related consolidated  statements of operations,  cash
flows and shareholders'  (deficit) equity and  comprehensive  income for each of
the years in the three-year  period ended December 26, 1998. These  consolidated
financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  TRICON's  management.   Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TRICON as of
December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997,  and the results of its  operations and
its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 26,
1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.








KPMG LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
February 10, 1999













Item 9.  Changes  In  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure.

     None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Information  regarding  directors is  incorporated  by  reference  from the
Company's definitive proxy statement which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after December 26, 1998.

     Information regarding executive officers of the Company is included in Part
I.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

     Information  regarding executive  compensation is incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will be filed with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission  no later than 120 days after  December 26,
1998.  Information  appearing in the sections entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Report on  Executive  Compensation"  and  "Performance  Graph"  contained in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement shall not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K,  notwithstanding  any general  statement  contained
herein incorporating portions of such proxy statement by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     Information  regarding  security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is  incorporated  by reference  from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement  which will be filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission no
later than 120 days after December 26, 1998.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     Tricon and PepsiCo have entered into certain  agreements,  described below,
governing  their  relationship  subsequent to the Spin-off and providing for the
allocation of tax and certain other  liabilities  and  obligations  arising from
periods prior to and after the Spin-off.  The following  summarizes the material
terms of such  agreements,  but is  qualified  by  reference to the text of such
agreements.

     Separation Agreement

     PepsiCo  and  Tricon  have  entered  into  a  Separation   Agreement   (the
"Separation  Agreement"),  which  provides  for,  among  other  things,  certain
services,  records and personnel which PepsiCo and Tricon will make available to
each other after the Spin-off.  The  Separation  Agreement also provides for the
assumption by Tricon of liabilities relating to PepsiCo's restaurant  businesses
inclusive of the Non-Core  Businesses  and the  indemnification  of PepsiCo with
respect to such liabilities.  Pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement,
Tricon paid to PepsiCo the sum of $4.5 billion as  repayment of certain  amounts
due to PepsiCo from Tricon and to fund a dividend to PepsiCo prior to Spin-off.

     Tax Separation Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon have entered into a Tax  Separation  Agreement (the "Tax
Separation   Agreement"),   on  behalf  of  themselves   and  their   respective
consolidated  groups,  that reflects each party's  rights and  obligations  with
respect  to  payments  and  refunds of taxes  that are  attributable  to periods
beginning  prior  to  and  including  the  Spin-off  and  taxes  resulting  from
transactions  effected  in  connection  with the  Spin-off.  The Tax  Separation
Agreement  also  expresses  each party's  intention  with respect to certain tax
attributes of Tricon after the Spin-off.  The Tax Separation  Agreement provides
for payments  between the two companies for certain tax  adjustments  made after
the Spin-off that cover pre-Spin-off tax 


liabilities.  Other provisions cover the handling of audits, settlements,  stock
options,  elections,  accounting  methods and return  filing in cases where both
companies have an interest in the results of these activities.

     Pursuant to the Tax Separation Agreement, Tricon has agreed to refrain from
engaging in certain  transactions  for two years following the Spin-off  without
the prior written consent of PepsiCo.  Transactions  subject to this restriction
include,  among other things,  the  liquidation,  merger or  consolidation  with
another company,  certain  issuances and redemptions of Tricon Common Stock, the
granting  of stock  options,  the  sale,  refranchising,  distribution  or other
disposition  of  assets  in  a  manner  that  would  adversely  affect  the  tax
consequences of the Spin-off or any transaction  effected in connection with the
Spin-off, and the discontinuation of certain businesses. If the Company fails to
abide by this restriction  and, as a result,  the Spin-off fails to qualify as a
tax-free reorganization,  the Company will be obligated to indemnify PepsiCo for
any resulting tax liability, which could be substantial.

     Employee Programs Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon  entered  into an  Employee  Programs  Agreement,  which
allocated assets,  liabilities and responsibilities between them with respect to
certain  employee  compensation and benefit plans and programs and certain other
related matters.

     Telecommunications, Software and Computing Services Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon have  entered  into a  Telecommunications,  Software and
Computing Services Agreement setting forth the arrangements  between the parties
with respect to internal software,  third-party  agreements,  telecommunications
services and computing services.

     Certain Letters of Credit, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities

     Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Tricon agreed to use its best efforts
to release,  terminate or replace, prior to the Spin-off, all letters of credit,
guarantees  and  contingent   liabilities   relating  to  PepsiCo's   restaurant
businesses  under which  PepsiCo was liable.  Nevertheless,  after the Spin-off,
PepsiCo  remains  liable on certain of such  letters of credit,  guarantees  and
contingent  liabilities  which  were  not  able to be  released,  terminated  or
replaced prior to the Spin-off.  Pursuant to the Separation Agreement,  from and
after the  Spin-off,  Tricon will pay a fee to PepsiCo  with respect to any such
letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities until such time as they
are  released,  terminated  or replaced  by a qualified  letter of credit with a
maximum drawing amount equal to the full amount of all remaining obligations and
foreseeable  claims  under such  letters of credit,  guarantees  and  contingent
liabilities.  At all times Tricon is required to indemnify  PepsiCo with respect
to such letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities.

     Information  about  the  agreements  described  above  is  included  in the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes  in Part II, Item 8 pages 48
through 82, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     Information  regarding certain  relationships  and related  transactions is
also  incorporated  by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement
which will be filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission no later than
120 days after December 26, 1998.




                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)  (1) Financial Statements:  Consolidated  financial statements filed as part
         of this report are listed under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

     (2)  Financial  Statement  Schedules:  No schedules  are  required  because
          either the  required  information  is not  present  or not  present in
          amounts sufficient to require  submission of the schedule,  or because
          the  information  required is included in the financial  statements or
          the related notes thereto filed as a part of this Form 10-K.

     (3)  Exhibits:  The exhibits listed in the  accompanying  Index to Exhibits
          are  filed  as  part  of  this  Form  10-K.   The  Index  to  Exhibits
          specifically  identifies each management contract or compensatory plan
          required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.

(b)  No reports on Form 8-K were filed  during the quarter  ended  December  26,
     1998.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this Form 10-K annual
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 22, 1999

                                   TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.


                                   By: /s/ Andrall E. Pearson                  
                                       -----------------------


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Form 10-K annual  report has been signed by the  following  persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                              Title                        Date


/s/ Andrall E. Pearson        Chairman of the Board            March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------  and Chief Executive
Andrall E. Pearson            Officer (principal
                              executive officer)
                              


/s/ Robert C. Lowes           Chief Financial                  March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------  Officer (principal
Robert C. Lowes               financial officer)
                              


/s/ Robert L. Carleton        Senior Vice President            March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------  and Controller
Robert L. Carleton            (principal accounting
                              officer)
                              


/s/ D. Ronald Daniel          Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
D. Ronald Daniel


/s/ James Dimon               Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
James Dimon

/s/ Massimo Ferragamo         Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Massimo Ferragamo


/s/ Robert Holland, Jr.       Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Robert Holland, Jr.





Signature                              Title                        Date


/s/ Sidney Kohl               Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Sidney Kohl


/s/ Kenneth G. Langone        Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Kenneth G. Langone


/s/ David C. Novak            Vice Chairman of the             March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------  Board and President
David C. Novak              


/s/ Jackie Trujillo           Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Jackie Trujillo


/s/ Robert J. Ulrich          Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Robert J. Ulrich


/s/ Jeanette S. Wagner        Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
Jeanette S. Wagner


/s/ John L. Weinberg          Director                         March 22, 1999
- ----------------------------
John L. Weinberg









                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                                  Exhibit Index
                                    (Item 14)


Exhibit
Number                              Description of Exhibits
- -------                             ------------------------

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation of Tricon.

3.2       Amended and restated Bylaws of Tricon.

4.1*      Indenture,  dated as of May 1,  1998,  between  Tricon  and The  First
          National  Bank of Chicago,  pertaining to 7.45% Senior Notes and 7.65%
          Senior Notes due May 15, 2005 and May 15, 2008, respectively, which is
          incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Tricon's  Report
          on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 13, 1998.

4.2       Rights  Agreement,  dated  as of July 21,  1998,  between  Tricon  and
          BankBoston,  N.A.,  which is  incorporated  herein by  reference  from
          Exhibit 4.01 to Tricon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended June 13, 1998.

10.1      Separation Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon. effective as of
          August 26, 1997, and the First  Amendment  thereto dated as of October
          6, 1997,  which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.1
          to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
          December 27, 1997.

10.2      Tax Separation Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon effective as
          of August 26, 1997,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference  from
          Exhibit  10.2 to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 27, 1997.

10.3      Employee Programs Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon effective
          as of August 26, 1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference from
          Exhibit  10.3 to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 27, 1997.

10.4      Telecommunications,  Software and Computing Services Agreement between
          PepsiCo,  Inc. and Tricon  effective  as of August 26, 1997,  which is
          incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to Tricon's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.5      Amended  and  Restated  Sales  and  Distribution   Agreement   between
          AmeriServe Food Distribution,  Inc., Tricon,  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
          KFC, effective as of November 1, 1998.

10.6      Credit Agreement dated as of October 2, 1997 among Tricon, the lenders
          party thereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Administrative  Agent, and
          Chase Manhattan Bank as Issuing Bank, which is incorporated  herein by
          reference  from Exhibit 10 to Tricon's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
          for the quarter ended September 6, 1997.

10.7+     Tricon Director  Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as effective October 7,
          1997,  which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.




10.8+     Tricon 1997 Long Term  Incentive  Plan, as effective  October 7, 1997,
          which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.8 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.9+     Tricon Executive Incentive  Compensation Plan, as effective October 7,
          1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.10+    Tricon Executive Income Deferral  Program,  as effective  October 7,
          1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.11 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.11+    Tricon Long Term  Savings  Program,  as  effective  October 7, 1997,
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.12 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.12+    Tricon  Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation  Plan (in draft form), as
          effective  October 7, 1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference
          from  Exhibit  10.13 to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.13+    Tricon  Pension  Equalization  Plan,  as effective  October 7, 1997,
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.14 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.14+    Employment  Agreement between Tricon and Andrall E. Pearson dated as
          of June 25,  1997,  and  subsequently  amended as of October 20, 1997,
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.15 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.15+    Terms of Employment Agreement between Tricon and Robert L. Carleton,
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.16 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.16     Form of Directors'  Indemnification  Agreement,  which is incorporated
          herein by reference  from Exhibit  10.17 to Tricon's  Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.17     Form of  Severance  Agreement  (in the event of a change in  control),
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.18 to
          Tricon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          5, 1998.

10.18+    Employment Agreement between Tricon and Robert C. Lowes, dated as of
          July 22, 1997.

10.19+    Employment Agreement between Tricon and Christian L. Campbell, dated
          as of September 3, 1997.

10.20     Tricon Purchasing Coop Agreement,  dated as of March 1, 1999,  between
          Tricon and the Unified FoodService Purchasing Coop, LLC.

12.1      Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges




21.1      Active Subsidiaries of Tricon.

23.1      Consent of KPMG LLP

27.1      Financial Data Schedule

- -------------------

*     Neither Tricon nor any of its subsidiaries is party to any other long-term
      debt instrument under which securities authorized exceed 10 percent of the
      total  assets of Tricon  and its  subsidiaries  on a  consolidated  basis.
      Copies of  instruments  with respect to long-term  debt of lesser  amounts
      will be furnished to the Commission upon request.

+     Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan.






                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.1

                       RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                         Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.


     FIRST:  The name of the  corporation  is TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.,
hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation."

     SECOND: The Corporation shall have authority to issue 1,000,000,000 shares,
without par value,  of which  750,000,000  shall be Common Shares,  and of which
250,000,000  shares  shall  be  Preferred  Shares,  with the  following  powers,
preferences and rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions.

     (a)  Except as otherwise  provided by law, each Common Share shall have one
          vote,  and,  except as otherwise  provided in respect of any series of
          Preferred Shares hereafter  classified or reclassified,  the exclusive
          voting  power for all  purposes  shall be vested in the holders of the
          Common Shares. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding
          up of the Corporation,  whether voluntary or involuntary,  the holders
          of the Common Shares shall be entitled, after payment or provision for
          payment of the debts and other  liabilities of the Corporation and the
          amount  to  which  the  holders  of any  series  of  Preferred  Shares
          hereafter   classified   or   reclassified   having  a  preference  on
          distribution  in the  liquidation,  dissolution  or  winding up of the
          Corporation  shall be entitled,  to share ratably in the remaining net
          assets of the Corporation.

     (b)  The  Board  of  Directors  is   authorized,   subject  to  limitations
          prescribed by the North Carolina  Business  Corporation  Act ("NCBCA")
          and these  Articles of  Incorporation,  to adopt and file from time to
          time  articles of amendment  that  authorize the issuance of Preferred
          Shares  which  may be  divided  into  two or  more  series  with  such
          preferences,   limitations,  and  relative  rights  as  the  Board  of
          Directors  may  determine;  provided,  however,  that no holder of any
          Preferred  Share shall be  authorized  or entitled to receive upon the
          involuntary  liquidation  of the  Corporation  an  amount in excess of
          $100.00 per Preferred Share.

     (c)  Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock. A series of Preferred
          Shares of the Corporation is hereby  created,  and the designation and
          amount  thereof  and the  voting  powers,  preferences  and  relative,
          participating, optional and other special rights of the shares of such
          series, and the  qualifications,  limitations or restrictions  thereof
          are as follows:

          1.   Designation  and  Amount.  The  shares  of such  series  shall be
               designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and
               the number of shares constituting such series shall be 750,000.

          2.   Dividends and Distributions.


               (A)  Subject to the prior and  superior  rights of the holders of
                    any  Preferred  Shares  ranking  prior and  superior  to the
                    shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock with
                    respect  to  dividends,  the  holders  of shares of Series A
                    Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock shall be entitled to
                    receive,  when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors
                    out of funds legally  available  for the purpose,  quarterly
                    dividends  payable  in cash  on the  first  day of  January,
                    April,  July and  October in each year (each such date being
                    referred to herein as a "Quarterly  Dividend Payment Date"),
                    commencing  on the first  Quarterly  Dividend  Payment  Date
                    after the first  issuance  of a share or fraction of a share
                    of  Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock,  in an
                    amount per share  (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the
                    greater of (a) $10.00 or (b)  subject to the  provision  for
                    adjustment  hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate
                    per share amount of all cash dividends,  and 1,000 times the
                    aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash
                    dividends  or  other  distributions  other  than a  dividend
                    payable in Common Shares or a subdivision of the outstanding
                    Common Shares (by  reclassification or otherwise),  declared
                    on  the  Common   Shares  of  the   Corporation   since  the
                    immediately  preceding  Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or,
                    with respect to the first Quarterly  Dividend  Payment Date,
                    since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share
                    of Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock.  In the
                    event the Corporation  shall at any time after July 21, 1998
                    (the "Rights  Declaration Date") (i) declare any dividend on
                    Common Shares  payable in Common  Shares,(ii)  subdivide the
                    outstanding  Common Shares, or (iii) combine the outstanding
                    Common Shares into a smaller number of shares,  then in each
                    such case the amount to which  holders of shares of Series A
                    Junior   Participating   Preferred   Stock   were   entitled
                    immediately  prior to such  event  under  clause  (b) of the
                    preceding  sentence  shall be adjusted by  multiplying  such
                    amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of
                    Common Shares  outstanding  immediately after such event and
                    the denominator of which is the number of Common Shares that
                    were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

               (B)  The Corporation  shall declare a dividend or distribution on
                    the  Series  A  Junior  Participating   Preferred  Stock  as
                    provided  in  Paragraph  (A)  above   immediately  after  it
                    declares a dividend  or  distribution  on the Common  Shares
                    (other than a dividend  payable in Common Shares);  provided
                    that,  in the event no dividend or  distribution  shall have
                    been declared on the Common Shares during the period between
                    any Quarterly  Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent
                    Quarterly  Dividend  Payment  Date, a dividend of $10.00 per
                    share on the Series A Junior  



                    Participating  Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable
                    on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

               (C)  Dividends  shall  begin  to  accrue  and  be  cumulative  on
                    outstanding   shares  of   Series  A  Junior   Participating
                    Preferred  Stock from the  Quarterly  Dividend  Payment Date
                    next  preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A
                    Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock,  unless the date of
                    issue of such  shares  is prior to the  record  date for the
                    first  Quarterly   Dividend  Payment  Date,  in  which  case
                    dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date
                    of issue of such  shares,  or unless  the date of issue is a
                    Quarterly  Dividend  Payment  Date  or is a date  after  the
                    record  date for the  determination  of holders of shares of
                    Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock entitled to
                    receive a  quarterly  dividend  and  before  such  Quarterly
                    Dividend  Payment  Date,  in  either  of which  events  such
                    dividends  shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such
                    Quarterly   Dividend   Payment  Date.   Accrued  but  unpaid
                    dividends  shall not bear  interest.  Dividends  paid on the
                    shares of Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock in
                    an amount less than the total  amount of such  dividends  at
                    the  time  accrued  and  payable  on such  shares  shall  be
                    allocated pro rata on a share-by-share  basis among all such
                    shares at the time  outstanding.  The Board of Directors may
                    fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares
                    of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to
                    receive  payment  of a  dividend  or  distribution  declared
                    thereon,  which  record  date  shall be no more than 30 days
                    prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

          3.   Voting  Rights.   The  holders  of  shares  of  Series  A  Junior
               Participating  Preferred  Stock shall have the  following  voting
               rights:

               (A)  Subject to the  provision  for  adjustment  hereinafter  set
                    forth, each share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
                    Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all
                    matters  submitted  to a  vote  of the  shareholders  of the
                    Corporation.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time
                    after the Rights  Declaration  Date (i) declare any dividend
                    on Common Shares  payable in Common  Shares,  (ii) subdivide
                    the  outstanding   Common  Shares,   or  (iii)  combine  the
                    outstanding  Common Shares into a smaller  number of shares,
                    then in each  such  case the  number  of votes  per share to
                    which  holders  of shares  of Series A Junior  Participating
                    Preferred  Stock  were  entitled  immediately  prior to such
                    event  shall be  adjusted  by  multiplying  such number by a
                    fraction  the  numerator  of which is the  number  of Common
                    Shares  outstanding  immediately  after  such  event and the
                    denominator  of which is the  number of Common  Shares  that
                    were outstanding immediately prior to such event.



               (B)  Except as otherwise  provided  herein or by law, the holders
                    of shares of Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock
                    and the holders of Common  Shares shall vote together as one
                    class on all matters  submitted to a vote of shareholders of
                    the Corporation.

              (C)  (i)   If at any  time  dividends  on any  Series A Junior
                         Participating Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an
                         amount equal to six (6)  quarterly  dividends  thereon,
                         the  occurrence  of such  contingency  shall  mark  the
                         beginning  of  a  period   (herein  called  a  "default
                         period")  which shall  extend  until such time when all
                         accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly
                         dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend
                         period on all  shares of Series A Junior  Participating
                         Preferred  Stock  then  outstanding   shall  have  been
                         declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each
                         default  period,   all  holders  of  Preferred   Shares
                         (including holders of the Series A Junior Participating
                         Preferred Stock) with dividends in arrears in an amount
                         equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, voting as
                         a class,  irrespective of series,  shall have the right
                         to elect two (2) directors.

                    (ii) During any default  period,  such  voting  right of the
                         holders  of  Series  A Junior  Participating  Preferred
                         Stock may be exercised  initially at a special  meeting
                         called pursuant to  subparagraph  (iii) of this Section
                         3(C) or at any  annual  meeting  of  shareholders,  and
                         thereafter at annual meetings of shareholders, provided
                         that  neither  such  voting  right nor the right of the
                         holders of any other  series of  Preferred  Shares,  if
                         any, to  increase,  in certain  cases,  the  authorized
                         number  of  directors  shall be  exercised  unless  the
                         holders  of ten  percent  (10%) in number of  Preferred
                         Shares  outstanding  shall be  present  in person or by
                         proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common
                         Shares  shall not affect the exercise by the holders of
                         Preferred  Shares of such voting right.  At any meeting
                         at which the holders of Preferred Shares shall exercise
                         such voting right initially  during an existing default
                         period,  they shall have the right,  voting as a class,
                         to elect directors to fill such  vacancies,  if any, in
                         the Board of  Directors as may then exist up to two (2)
                         directors  or, if such right is  exercised at an annual
                         meeting,  to elect  two (2)  directors.  If the  number
                         which may be so elected at any special meeting does not
                         amount  to the  required  number,  the  holders  of the
                         Preferred  Shares  shall  have the  right to make  such
                         increase  in  the  number  of  directors  as  shall  be
                         necessary  to  permit  the  election  by  them  of  the
                         required  number.  After the  holders of the  Preferred
                         Shares  shall  have  exercised  their  right  to  elect
                         directors   in  any  default   period  and  during  the
                         continuance  of such  period,  the 



                         number of  directors  shall not be  increased  or  
                         decreased except by vote of the  holders of  Preferred
                         Shares as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of 
                         any equity securities  ranking  senior to or pari passu
                         with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.

                    (iii)Unless the holders of Preferred  Shares  shall,  during
                         an existing default period,  have previously  exercised
                         their right to elect directors,  the Board of Directors
                         may order, or any shareholder or shareholders owning in
                         the  aggregate  not less than ten percent  (10%) of the
                         total number of shares of Preferred Shares outstanding,
                         irrespective of series,  may request,  the calling of a
                         special  meeting of the  holders of  Preferred  Shares,
                         which  meeting   shall   thereupon  be  called  by  the
                         President,  a  Vice-President  or the  Secretary of the
                         Corporation.  Notice of such  meeting and of any annual
                         meeting  at  which  holders  of  Preferred  Shares  are
                         entitled to vote  pursuant to this  Paragraph  (C)(iii)
                         shall be given to each  holder of  record of  Preferred
                         Shares by  mailing a copy of such  notice to him at his
                         last  address  as the same  appears on the books of the
                         Corporation.  Such  meeting  shall be called for a time
                         not  earlier  than 20 days and not  later  than 60 days
                         after  such  order  or  request  or in  default  of the
                         calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order
                         or  request,  such  meeting  may be called  on  similar
                         notice by any shareholder or shareholders owning in the
                         aggregate  not less than ten percent (10%) of the total
                         number  of  shares  of  Preferred  Shares  outstanding.
                         Notwithstanding   the   provisions  of  this  Paragraph
                         (C)(iii),  no such  special  meeting  shall  be  called
                         during the period within 60 days immediately  preceding
                         the date  fixed  for the  next  annual  meeting  of the
                         shareholders.

                    (iv) In any default  period,  the holders of Common  Shares,
                         and  other  classes  of  stock  of the  Corporation  if
                         applicable,  shall continue to be entitled to elect the
                         whole  number  of   directors   until  the  holders  of
                         Preferred  Shares shall have  exercised  their right to
                         elect two (2)  directors  voting as a class,  after the
                         exercise of which right (x) the directors so elected by
                         the  holders of  Preferred  Shares  shall  continue  in
                         office until their  successors  shall have been elected
                         by such holders or until the  expiration of the default
                         period,  and (y) any vacancy in the Board of  Directors
                         may (except as provided  in  Paragraph  (C)(ii) of this
                         Section  3) be  filled  by  vote of a  majority  of the
                         remaining directors  theretofore elected by the holders
                         of the class of stock which elected the director  whose
                         office  shall have become  vacant.  References  in this
                         Paragraph (C) to directors  elected by the holders of a
                         particular  class  of  stock  shall  include  directors
                         elected by such directors to 



                         fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the 
                         foregoing sentence.

                    (v)  Immediately  upon the  expiration of a default  period,
                         (x) the right of the holders of  Preferred  Shares as a
                         class to elect directors  shall cease,  (y) the term of
                         any  directors  elected  by the  holders  of  Preferred
                         Shares as a class shall  terminate,  and (z) the number
                         of  directors  shall be such  number as may be provided
                         for  in  the  Restated  Articles  of  Incorporation  or
                         By-laws of the Corporation (the "By-laws") irrespective
                         of any  increase  made  pursuant to the  provisions  of
                         Paragraph  (C)(ii) of this Section 3 (such number being
                         subject,  however,  to change  thereafter in any manner
                         provided  by  law  or  in  the  Restated   Articles  of
                         Incorporation  or By-laws).  Any vacancies in the Board
                         of Directors  effected by the provisions of clauses (y)
                         and (z) in the  preceding  sentence  may be filled by a
                         majority of the remaining directors.

               (D)  Except  as set  forth  herein,  holders  of  Series A Junior
                    Participating  Preferred  Stock shall have no special voting
                    rights and their  consent  shall not be required  (except to
                    the extent they are  entitled to vote with holders of Common
                    Shares as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.

          4.   Certain Restrictions.

               (A)  Whenever   quarterly   dividends   or  other   dividends  or
                    distributions  payable on the Series A Junior  Participating
                    Preferred  Stock as  provided  in Section 2 are in  arrears,
                    thereafter  and until all accrued and unpaid  dividends  and
                    distributions,  whether or not declared, on shares of Series
                    A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock  outstanding  shall
                    have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not

                    (i)  declare   or  pay   dividends   on,   make  any   other
                         distributions  on, or redeem or purchase  or  otherwise
                         acquire for  consideration  any shares of stock ranking
                         junior  (either as to  dividends  or upon  liquidation,
                         dissolution  or  winding  up) to the  Series  A  Junior
                         Participating  Preferred  Stock; 

                    (ii) declare  or  pay   dividends   on  or  make  any  other
                         distributions  on any  shares  of  stock  ranking  on a
                         parity  (either as to  dividends  or upon  liquidation,
                         dissolution  or  winding  up) with the  Series A Junior
                         Participating  Preferred  Stock,  except dividends paid
                         ratably on the Series A Junior Participating  Preferred
                         Stock and all such parity stock on which  dividends are
                         payable  or in  arrears  in  proportion  to  the  total
                         amounts  to which the  holders  of all such  shares are
                         then entitled;



                    (iii)redeem   or   purchase   or   otherwise   acquire   for
                         consideration  shares of any stock  ranking on a parity
                         (either   as  to   dividends   or   upon   liquidation,
                         dissolution  or  winding  up) with the  Series A Junior
                         Participating   Preferred  Stock,   provided  that  the
                         Corporation  may  at  any  time  redeem,   purchase  or
                         otherwise  acquire  shares of any such parity  stock in
                         exchange  for  shares of any  stock of the  Corporation
                         ranking   junior   (either  as  to  dividends  or  upon
                         dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A
                         Junior Participating Preferred Stock; or

                    (iv) purchase or  otherwise  acquire for  consideration  any
                         shares  of  Series  A  Junior  Participating  Preferred
                         Stock,  or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with
                         the  Series A  Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock,
                         except in  accordance  with a  purchase  offer  made in
                         writing or by  publication  (as determined by the Board
                         of  Directors)  to all holders of such shares upon such
                         terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of
                         the respective annual dividend rates and other relative
                         rights and  preferences  of the  respective  series and
                         classes,  shall  determine in good faith will result in
                         fair  and  equitable  treatment  among  the  respective
                         series or classes.

               (B)  The  Corporation  shall not  permit  any  subsidiary  of the
                    Corporation   to   purchase   or   otherwise   acquire   for
                    consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation  unless
                    the Corporation  could,  under Paragraph (A) of this Section
                    4,  purchase or  otherwise  acquire such shares at such time
                    and in such manner.

          5.   Reacquired  Shares.  Any shares of Series A Junior  Participating
               Preferred   Stock   purchased  or   otherwise   acquired  by  the
               Corporation  in  any  manner  whatsoever  shall  be  retired  and
               cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares
               shall upon their  cancellation  become  authorized  but  unissued
               Preferred  Shares and may be  reissued as part of a new series of
               Preferred  Shares to be created by resolution or  resolutions  of
               the  Board  of   Directors,   subject  to  the   conditions   and
               restrictions on issuance set forth herein.

          6.   Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.

               (A)  Upon  any  liquidation,  dissolution  or  winding  up of the
                    Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of
                    shares of stock  ranking  junior  (either as to dividends or
                    upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A
                    Junior Participating  Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto,
                    the  holders  of  shares  of  Series A Junior  Participating
                    Preferred  Stock  shall  have  received  an amount  equal to
                    $1,000 per share of Series A Participating  Preferred Stock,
                    plus an amount  equal to accrued  and unpaid  dividends  and
                    distributions thereon,  whether or not declared, to the date
                    of 


                    such  payment  (the  "Series  A  Liquidation   Preference").
                    Following  the  payment  of the full  amount of the Series A
                    Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be
                    made  to  the   holders   of   shares  of  Series  A  Junior
                    Participating  Preferred  Stock unless,  prior thereto,  the
                    holders of Common  Shares shall have  received an amount per
                    share  (the  "Common  Adjustment")  equal  to  the  quotient
                    obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference
                    by (ii)  1,000 (as  appropriately  adjusted  as set forth in
                    subparagraph  (C)  below to  reflect  such  events  as stock
                    splits, stock dividends and  recapitalizations  with respect
                    to the  Common  Shares)  (such  number in clause  (ii),  the
                    "Adjustment  Number").  Following  the  payment  of the full
                    amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common
                    Adjustment in respect of all outstanding  shares of Series A
                    Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock and  Common  Shares,
                    respectively,  holders  of  Series  A  Junior  Participating
                    Preferred  Stock and holders of Common  Shares shall receive
                    their  ratable  and  proportionate  share  of the  remaining
                    assets  to be  distributed  in the  ratio of the  Adjustment
                    Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Shares and Common
                    Shares, on a per share basis, respectively.

               (B)  In the event,  however, that there are not sufficient assets
                    available  to  permit  payment  in  full  of  the  Series  A
                    Liquidation  Preference and the  liquidation  preferences of
                    all other series of Preferred  Shares, if any, which rank on
                    a parity  with the Series A Junior  Participating  Preferred
                    Stock,  then  such  remaining  assets  shall be  distributed
                    ratably to the holders of such parity  shares in  proportion
                    to their respective liquidation  preferences.  In the event,
                    however,  that there are not sufficient  assets available to
                    permit payment in full of the Common  Adjustment,  then such
                    remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders
                    of Common Shares.

               (C)  In the event  the  Corporation  shall at any time  after the
                    Rights  Declaration  Date (i) declare any dividend on Common
                    Shares  payable  in  Common   Shares,   (ii)  subdivide  the
                    outstanding  Common Shares, or (iii) combine the outstanding
                    Common Shares into a smaller number of shares,  then in each
                    such case the Adjustment Number in effect  immediately prior
                    to  such  event  shall  be  adjusted  by  multiplying   such
                    Adjustment  Number by a fraction  the  numerator of which is
                    the number of Common Shares  outstanding  immediately  after
                    such  event and the  denominator  of which is the  number of
                    Common  Shares that were  outstanding  immediately  prior to
                    such event.

               (D)  Notwithstanding  the other  provisions of this Section 6, no
                    holder of shares of Series A Junior Participating  Preferred
                    Stock shall be  authorized  or entitled to receive  upon the



                    involuntary  liquidation  of the  Corporation  an  amount in
                    excess of $100.00 per share.

          7.   Consolidation,  Merger,  etc. In case the Corporation shall enter
               into any consolidation,  merger, combination or other transaction
               in which the Common  Shares  are  exchanged  for or changed  into
               other stock or securities,  cash and/or any other property,  then
               in any such  case the  shares  of  Series A Junior  Participating
               Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly  exchanged or
               changed  in an amount per share  (subject  to the  provision  for
               adjustment  hereinafter  set  forth)  equal  to 1,000  times  the
               aggregate  amount of stock,  securities,  cash  and/or  any other
               property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for
               which each Common Share is changed or exchanged. In the event the
               Corporation  shall at any time after the Rights  Declaration Date
               (i)  declare  any  dividend  on Common  Share  payable  in Common
               Shares,  (ii) subdivide the outstanding  Common Shares,  or (iii)
               combine the  outstanding  Common Shares into a smaller  number of
               shares,  then in each  such  case  the  amount  set  forth in the
               preceding  sentence  with  respect to the  exchange  or change of
               shares of Series A Junior Participating  Preferred Stock shall be
               adjusted by  multiplying  such amount by a fraction the numerator
               of which is the number of Common Shares  outstanding  immediately
               after  such event and the  denominator  of which is the number of
               Common  Shares that were  outstanding  immediately  prior to such
               event.

          8.   No  Redemption.  The  shares  of  Series A  Junior  Participating
               Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.

          9.   Ranking. The Series A Junior Participating  Preferred Stock shall
               rank junior to all other  series of the  Corporation's  Preferred
               Shares,   if  any,  as  to  the  payment  of  dividends  and  the
               distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall
               provide otherwise.

          10.  Amendment.  At any  time  when  any  shares  of  Series  A Junior
               Participating  Preferred  Stock  are  outstanding,  the  Restated
               Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended
               in any manner which would  materially alter or change the powers,
               preferences   or   special   rights   of  the   Series  A  Junior
               Participating  Preferred  Stock so as to  affect  them  adversely
               without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more
               of the  outstanding  shares  of  Series  A  Junior  Participating
               Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.

          11.  Fractional Shares. Series A Junior Participating  Preferred Stock
               may be issued in  fractions  of a share which  shall  entitle the
               holder,  in  proportion to such holder's  fractional  shares,  to
               exercise  voting  rights,   receive  dividends,   participate  in
               distributions  and to have the  benefit  of all  other  rights of
               holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.



     THIRD: The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State
of North  Carolina is 225  Hillsborough  Street,  Raleigh,  Wake  County,  North
Carolina 27603; and the name of its initial  registered agent at such address is
CT Corporation System.

     FOURTH:  No  holder  of  any  share  of  the  Corporation,  whether  now or
hereinafter  authorized,  shall have any preemptive right to subscribe for or to
purchase any shares or other securities of the  Corporation,  nor have any right
to cumulate  his votes for the  election of  Directors.  At all  meetings of the
Shareholders of the Corporation, a quorum being present, all matters (other than
the  election  of  Directors)  shall be decided by the vote of the  holders of a
majority  of the stock of the  Corporation,  present in person or by proxy,  and
entitled to vote thereat.

     FIFTH:  The  following  provisions  are intended for the  management of the
business and for the  regulation  of the affairs of the  Corporation,  and it is
expressly  provided that the same are intended to be in  furtherance  and not in
limitation of the powers conferred by statute:

     (a)  The Board of Directors shall have the exclusive power and authority to
          direct  management of the business and affairs of the  Corporation and
          shall  exercise  all  corporate  powers,  and possess  all  authority,
          necessary or  appropriate  to carry out the intent of this  provision,
          and which are  customarily  exercised  by the board of  directors of a
          public  company.   In  furtherance  of  the  foregoing,   but  without
          limitation,  the Board of Directors shall have the exclusive power and
          authority to: (a) elect all executive  officers of the  Corporation as
          the Board may deem  necessary or desirable from time to time, to serve
          at the  pleasure  of the  Board;  (b)  fix  the  compensation  of such
          officers; (c) fix the compensation of Directors; and (d) determine the
          time  and  place  of  all  meetings  of the  Board  of  Directors  and
          Shareholders of the Corporation.  A scheduled  meeting of Shareholders
          may be postponed  by the Board of Directors by public  notice given at
          or prior to the time of the meeting.

     (b)  The number of Directors  constituting the Board of Directors shall not
          be less than three nor more than fifteen, as may be fixed from time to
          time by resolution  duly adopted by the Board of  Directors.  Provided
          that the number of members of the Board of Directors equals or exceeds
          the number required under the NCBCA to stagger the terms of Directors,
          from and after the first annual  Shareholders'  meeting,  the Board of
          Directors  shall be divided  into three  classes,  as nearly  equal in
          number as may be  possible,  to serve  respectively  until the  annual
          meetings  in  1998,  1999 and 2000 in the  classes  designated  by the
          shareholder of the Corporation at the 1997 Annual  Meeting,  and until
          their  successors  shall be elected and shall qualify,  and thereafter
          the successors  shall be elected to serve for terms of three years and
          until  their  successors  shall be elected and shall  qualify.  In the
          event of any  increase  or decrease  in the number of  Directors,  the
          additional  or  eliminated  directorships  shall be so  classified  or
          chosen such that all classes of Directors shall remain or become equal
          in number, as nearly as may be possible.

     (c)  A vacancy  occurring  on the Board of  Directors,  including,  without
          limitation,  a vacancy  resulting  from an  increase  in the number of
          Directors or from the failure by  Shareholders  of the  Corporation to
          elect the full authorized 



          number of Directors, may only be filled by a majority of the remaining
          Directors or by the sole remaining Director in office. In the event of
          the death, resignation,  retirement,  removal or disqualification of a
          Director during his elected term of office,  his successor shall serve
          until the next  Shareholders'  meeting at which Directors are elected.
          Directors may be removed from office only for cause.

     (d)  The Board of Directors  may adopt,  amend or repeal the  Corporation's
          Bylaws,  in whole or in part,  including  amendment  or  repeal of any
          Bylaw adopted by the Shareholders of the Corporation.

     (e)  The  Corporation  may in  its  Bylaws  confer  upon  Directors  powers
          additional to the foregoing and the powers and  authorities  conferred
          upon them by statute.

     (f)  The Corporation  reserves the right to amend, alter, change, or repeal
          any  provision  herein  contained,  in the  manner  now  or  hereafter
          prescribed  by law,  and all the rights  conferred  upon  Shareholders
          hereunder are granted, and are to be held and enjoyed, subject to such
          rights of amendment, alteration, change or repeal.

     (g)  The only  qualifications  for  Directors of the  Corporation  shall be
          those set forth in these Articles of Incorporation. Directors need not
          be residents  of the State of North  Carolina or  Shareholders  of the
          Corporation.

     (h)  The Board of Directors may create and make appointments to one or more
          committees of the Board  comprised  exclusively  of Directors who will
          serve at the pleasure of the Board and who may have and exercise  such
          powers of the Board in directing  the  management  of the business and
          affairs  of the  Corporation  as the Board may  delegate,  in its sole
          discretion,  consistent  with the  provisions  of the  NCBCA and these
          Articles of Incorporation. The Board of Directors may not delegate its
          authority over the expenditure of funds of the Corporation except to a
          committee  of the Board  and  except  to one or more  officers  of the
          Corporation  elected by the Board.  No committee  comprised of persons
          other than members of the Board of Directors shall possess or exercise
          any  authority  in the  management  of the business and affairs of the
          Corporation.

     SIXTH:

     (a)  The  Corporation  shall,  to the  fullest  extent  from  time  to time
          permitted by law,  indemnify its  Directors  and officers  against all
          liabilities  and expenses in any suit or  proceedings,  whether civil,
          criminal,  administrative or investigative, and whether or not brought
          by or on behalf of the Corporation,  including all appeals  therefrom,
          arising out of their status as such or their  activities in any of the
          foregoing  capacities,  unless  the  activities  of the  person  to be
          indemnified  were at the time taken known or believed by such Director
          or officer to be clearly in conflict  with the best  interests  of the
          Corporation.  The  Corporation  shall  likewise and to the same extent
          indemnify any person who, at the request of the Corporation, is or was
          serving as a Director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of
          another foreign or domestic corporation,  partnership,  joint venture,
          trust 
  


          or other  enterprise,  or as a  trustee  or  administrator  under  any
          employee benefit plan.

     (b)  The  right  to  be  indemnified   hereunder  shall  include,   without
          limitation,  the right of a Director or officer to be paid expenses in
          advance of the final disposition of any proceedings upon receipt of an
          undertaking  to  repay  such  amount  unless  it shall  ultimately  be
          determined that he or she is entitled to be indemnified hereunder.

     (c)  A person  entitled  to  indemnification  hereunder  shall also be paid
          reasonable costs, expenses and attorneys' fees (including expenses) in
          connection  with the  enforcement  of  rights  to the  indemnification
          granted hereunder.

     (d)  The foregoing rights of indemnification  shall not be exclusive of any
          other rights to which those  seeking  indemnification  may be entitled
          and shall not be limited by the  provisions of Section  55-8-51 of the
          NCBCA or any successor statute.

     (e)  The Board of Directors  may take such action as it deems  necessary or
          desirable  to carry out these  indemnification  provisions,  including
          adopting   procedures  for   determining   and  enforcing  the  rights
          guaranteed  hereunder,   and  the  Board  of  Directors  is  expressly
          empowered  to adopt,  approve and amend from time to time such Bylaws,
          resolutions or contracts  implementing such provisions or such further
          indemnification arrangement as may be permitted by law.

     (f)  Neither the amendment or repeal of this  Article,  nor the adoption of
          any  provision of these  Articles of these  Articles of  Incorporation
          inconsistent with this Article, shall eliminate or reduce any right to
          indemnification afforded by this Article to any person with respect to
          their status or any activities in their official  capacities  prior to
          such amendment, repeal or adoption.

     SEVENTH:  To the full extent from time to time  permitted by law, no person
who is  serving  or who has served as a  Director  of the  Corporation  shall be
personally liable in any action for monetary damages for breach of any duty as a
Director,  whether such action is brought by or in the right of the  Corporation
or otherwise.  Neither the amendment or repeal of this Article, nor the adoption
of any  provision  of these  Articles of  Incorporation  inconsistent  with this
Article,  shall eliminate or reduce the protection afforded by this Article to a
Director of the Corporation with respect to any matter which occurred, or in any
cause of action,  suit or claim which but for this Article would have accrued or
arisen, prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption.

     EIGHTH:  The  provisions of Article 9A of the NCBCA shall not be applicable
to the Corporation.

     NINTH: Except as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the
Shareholders of the  Corporation  shall have access as a matter of right only to
the books and records of the Corporation as may be required to be made available
to qualified shareholders by the NCBCA.



     TENTH:  To the extent that there ever may be  inconsistency  between  these
Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Corporation as may be adopted or
amended from time to time, the Articles of Incorporation shall always control.













                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2
                                                     
                                                      Restated February 18, 1999


                                     BYLAWS

                                       OF

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.



                               ARTICLE 1 - OFFICES

     Section 1. Offices. The principal office of Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.
(the  "Corporation")  in the  State  of North  Carolina  shall be in the City of
Raleigh. The Corporation may have offices at such other places, either within or
without the State of North Carolina,  as the Board of Directors may from time to
time determine.


                      ARTICLE 2 - MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

     Section 1. Place of Meeting. Meetings of Shareholders shall be held at such
places,  either  within  or  without  the State of North  Carolina,  as shall be
designated in the notice of the meeting.

     Section 2. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of Shareholders shall be held
on such date and at such time as the Board of  Directors  shall  determine  each
year  in  advance  thereof,  for  the  purpose  of  electing  Directors  of  the
Corporation  and the transaction of such business as may be a proper subject for
action at the meeting.

     Section 3. Special Meetings. Special Meetings of Shareholders shall be held
at such  places  and  times as  determined  by the Board of  Directors  in their
discretion as provided in the Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 4. Notice of  Meetings.  At least 10 and no more than 60 days prior
to any annual or special meeting of Shareholders,  the Corporation  shall notify
Shareholders  of the date,  time and place of the meeting  and, in the case of a
special meeting or where otherwise  required by the Articles of Incorporation or
by statute,  shall briefly describe the purpose or purposes of the meeting. Only
business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice may be conducted
at a special meeting. Unless otherwise required by the Articles of Incorporation
or by  statute,  the  Corporation  shall  be  required  to give  notice  only to
Shareholders  entitled  to  vote  at  the  meeting.  If  an  annual  or  special
Shareholders'  meeting is adjourned to a 




different date, time or place, notice thereof need not be given if the new date,
time or place is announced at the meeting  before  adjournment.  If a new record
date for the adjourned meeting is fixed pursuant to Article 7, Section 5 hereof,
notice of the adjourned  meeting shall be given to persons who are  Shareholders
as of the new record  date.  If mailed,  notice  shall be deemed to be effective
when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, correctly
addressed to the Shareholders' address shown in the Corporation's current record
of Shareholders.

     Section 5. Quorum,  Presiding  Officer.  Except as otherwise  prescribed by
statute,  the Articles of Incorporation  or these Bylaws,  at any meeting of the
Shareholders  of the  Corporation,  the  presence  in  person or by proxy of the
holders of record of a majority of the issued and outstanding  shares of capital
stock of the Corporation  entitled to vote thereat shall constitute a quorum for
the  transaction of business.  In the absence of a quorum at such meeting or any
adjournment or adjournments thereof, the holders of record of a majority of such
shares so present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat may adjourn
the  meeting  from time to time  until a quorum  shall be  present.  At any such
adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present,  any business may be transaction
which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally  called.  Meetings
of  Shareholders  shall be presided over by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the
Board,  or, if neither is present,  by another  officer or Director who shall be
designated  to  serve  in  such  event  by  the  Board.  The  Secretary  of  the
Corporation,  or an Assistant  Secretary  designated by the officer presiding at
the meeting, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.

     Section 6. Voting.  Except as otherwise prescribed by statute, the Articles
of  Incorporation  or these Bylaws,  at any meeting of the  Shareholders  of the
Corporation,  each  Shareholder  shall be  entitled  to one vote in person or by
proxy for each share of voting  capital stock of the  Corporation  registered in
the name of such  Shareholder on the books of the  Corporation on the date fixed
pursuant  to  these  Bylaws  as  the  record  date  for  the   determination  of
Shareholders  entitled  to vote at such  meeting.  No proxy shall be voted after
eleven (11) months from its date unless said proxy provides for a longer period.
Shares of its voting  capital stock  belonging to the  Corporation  shall not be
voted either  directly or  indirectly.  The vote for the election of  Directors,
other matters  expressly  prescribed by statute,  and, upon the direction of the
presiding  officer of the  meeting,  the vote on any other  question  before the
meeting, shall be by ballot.

     Section 7. Notice of Shareholder Proposal. No business may be transacted at
an annual  meeting  of  Shareholders,  other  than  business  that is either (a)
specified in the notice of meeting (or any  supplement  thereto)  given by or at
the  direction  of the  Board of  Directors  (or any duly  authorized  committee
thereof),  (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the
direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized  committee  thereof)
or (c) otherwise  properly  brought before the annual meeting by any Shareholder
of the  Corporation (i) who is a 



Shareholder  of record on the date of the giving of the notice  provided  for in
this  Section 7 and on the record  date for the  determination  of  Shareholders
entitled to vote at such annual  meeting and (ii) who  complies  with the notice
procedures set forth in this Section 7.

     In  addition  to any other  applicable  requirements,  for  business  to be
properly  brought before an annual meeting by a  Shareholder,  such  Shareholder
must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of
the Corporation.

     To be timely, a Shareholder's  notice to the Secretary must be delivered to
or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not
less than  ninety  (90) days prior to the  anniversary  date of the  immediately
preceding annual meeting of Shareholders;  provided,  however, that in the event
that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days
before or after such anniversary  date, notice by the Shareholder in order to be
timely  must be so  received  not later than the close of  business on the tenth
(10th)  day  following  the day on which  such  notice of the date of the annual
meeting was mailed or such public  disclosure of the date of the annual  meeting
was made, whichever first occurs.

     To be in proper written form, a Shareholder's  notice to the Secretary must
set forth as to each matter such Shareholder proposes to bring before the annual
meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the
annual  meeting and the reasons to be brought  before the annual meeting and the
reasons for conducting  such business at the annual  meeting,  (ii) the name and
record  address  of such  Shareholder,  (iii) the class or series  and number of
shares of capital stock of the  Corporation  which are owned  beneficially or of
record  by  such  Shareholder,   (iv)  a  description  of  all  arrangements  or
understandings  between  such  Shareholder  and  any  other  person  or  persons
(including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such
Shareholder and any material  interest of such  Shareholder in such business and
(v) a  representation  that such  Shareholder  intends to appear in person or by
proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.

     No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of Shareholders except
business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this  Section  7;  provided,  however,  that,  once  business  has been
properly  brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such  procedures,
nothing  in this  Section  7 shall  be  deemed  to  preclude  discussion  by any
Shareholder  of  any  such  business.  If  the  Chairman  of an  annual  meeting
determines  that business was not properly  brought before the annual meeting in
accordance  with the  foregoing  procedures,  the Chairman  shall declare to the
meeting that the business was not properly  brought  before the meeting and such
business shall not be transacted.



     Section 8.  Postponement of  Shareholders  Meeting.  A scheduled  annual or
special  meeting of  Shareholders  may be postponed by the Board of Directors by
public notice given at or prior to the time of the meeting.

     Section 9.  Shareholder  Nominations  of  Directors.  Only  persons who are
nominated in  accordance  with the  following  procedures  shall be eligible for
election as directors of the Corporation. Nominations of persons for election to
the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of Shareholders,  or at
any  special  meeting  of  Shareholders  called  for  the  purpose  of  electing
directors,  (a) by or at the  direction of the Board of  Directors  (or any duly
authorized  committee  thereof) or (b) by any Shareholder of the Corporation (i)
who is a Shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice  provided
for  in  this  Section  9 and  on the  record  date  for  the  determination  of
Shareholders  entitled to vote at such  meeting and (ii) who  complies  with the
notice procedures set forth in this Section 9.

     In addition to any other  applicable  requirements,  for a nomination to be
made by a Shareholder, such Shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in
proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.

     To be timely, a Shareholder's  notice to the Secretary must be delivered to
or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a)
in the case of an annual  meeting,  not less than  ninety (90) days prior to the
anniversary  date of the immediately  preceding  annual meeting of Shareholders;
provided,  however,  that in the event that the  annual  meeting is called for a
date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary  date,
notice by the  Shareholder  in order to be timely must be so received  not later
than the close of business on the tenth  (10th) day  following  the day on which
such  notice  of the  date of the  annual  meeting  was  mailed  or such  public
disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made,  whichever  first occurs;
and (b) in the case of a special meeting of Shareholders  called for the purpose
of electing directors,  not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th)
day  following  the day on which  notice of the date of the special  meeting was
mailed  or  public  disclosure  of the date of the  special  meeting  was  made,
whichever first occurs.

     To be in proper written form, a Shareholder's  notice to the Secretary must
set forth (a) as to each person whom the  Shareholder  proposes to nominate  for
election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address
of the person, (ii) the principal  occupation or employment of the person, (iii)
the class or series  and number of shares of  capital  stock of the  Corporation
which are owned  beneficially  or of  record  by the  person  and (iv) any other
information  relating to the person that would be required to be  disclosed in a
proxy  statement  or  other  filings  required  to be  made in  connection  with
solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  and the rules and  regulations
promulgated thereunder;  and (b) as to the Shareholder giving the notice (i) the
name and record address of such Shareholder, (ii) the class or 




series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation  which are owned
beneficially  or of  record  by such  Shareholder,  (iii) a  description  of all
arrangements  or  understandings  between  such  Shareholder  and each  proposed
nominee and any other  person or persons  (including  their  names)  pursuant to
which  the  nomination(s)   are  to  be  made  by  such   Shareholder,   (iv)  a
representation  that such Shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at
the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other
information  relating to such Shareholder that would be required to be disclosed
in a proxy  statement or other filings  required to be made in  connection  with
solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  and the rules and  regulations
promulgated thereunder.  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of
each proposed  nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if
elected.

     No person shall be eligible  for election as a director of the  Corporation
unless  nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9.
If the  Chairman of the meeting  determines  that a  nomination  was not made in
accordance  with the  foregoing  procedures,  the Chairman  shall declare to the
meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be
disregarded.


                         ARTICLE 3 - BOARD OF DIRECTORS

     Section 1. General Powers.  Except as otherwise  expressly  provided in the
Articles of Incorporation  or by statute,  the Board of Directors shall have the
exclusive  power and authority to direct  management of the business and affairs
of the  Corporation  and shall  exercise all corporate  powers,  and possess all
authority,  necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of this  provision,
and which  are  customarily  exercised  by the  board of  directors  of a public
company.

     Section  2.  Number,   Term  and  Qualification.   The  number,   term  and
qualification  of  Directors  of the  Corporation  shall be as  provided  in the
Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 3.  Removal.  Directors  may be removed  from  office  only for the
reasons, if any, specified in the Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 4. Vacancies.  Vacancies  occurring in the Board of Directors shall
be filled only as provided in the Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 5. Compensation. Compensation for the services of Directors as such
shall be  determined  exclusively  by the Board of  Directors as provided in the
Articles of Incorporation.



                        ARTICLE 4 - MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS

     Section 1. Annual and Regular Meetings.  All annual and regular meetings of
the Board of Directors  shall be held at such places and times as  determined by
the Board of  Directors  in their  discretion  as  provided  in the  Articles of
Incorporation.

     Section 2.  Special  Meetings.  Special  meetings of the Board of Directors
shall be held at such places and times as  determined  by the Board of Directors
in their discretion as provided in the Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 3. Notice of Meetings.  Unless the Board of Directors by resolution
determines  otherwise in accordance  with authority set forth in the Articles of
Incorporation, all meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice
of the date,  time,  place or purpose of the meeting.  The Secretary  shall give
such notice of any meetings  called by the Board by such means of  communication
as may be specified by the Board.

     Section 4. Quorum. A majority of the Directors in office shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors.

     Section 5. Manner of Acting.  A majority of Directors  who are present at a
meeting at which a quorum is present will constitute the required vote to effect
any action taken by the Board of Directors.

     Section 6. Action Without Meeting. Action required or permitted to be taken
at a meeting  of the Board of  Directors  may be taken  without a meeting if the
action is taken by all members of the Board. The action must be evidenced by one
or more written  consents  signed by each Director  before or after such action,
describing  the action  taken,  and  included  in the  minutes or filed with the
corporate  records.  Action taken  without a meeting is effective  when the last
Director signs the consent,  unless the consent specifies a different  effective
date.

     Section 7. Meeting by  Communications  Device.  The Board of Directors  may
permit  Directors to participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors by, or
conduct the meeting through the use of, any means of  communication by which all
Directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A
Director  participating  in a meeting  by this  means is deemed to be present in
person at the meeting.



                             ARTICLE 5 - COMMITTEES

     Section 1.  Election and Powers.  The Board of  Directors  may appoint such
committees  with such members who shall have such powers and authority as may be
determined  by the Board as provided in the  Articles of  Incorporation.  To the
extent specified by the Board of Directors or in the Articles of  Incorporation,
each  committee  shall  have and may  exercise  the  powers  of the Board in the
management  of the  business  and  affairs of the  Corporation,  except  that no
committee shall have authority to do the following:

     (a)  Authorize distributions.

     (b)  Approve or propose to  Shareholders  action required to be approved by
          Shareholders.

     (c)  Fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any of its committees.

     (d)  Amend the Articles of Incorporation.

     (e)  Adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws.

     (f)  Approve a plan of merger not requiring Shareholder approval.

     (g)  Authorize or approve the reacquisition of shares,  except according to
          a formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors.

     (h)  Authorize  or  approve  the  issuance,  sale or  contract  for sale of
          shares, or determine the designation and relative rights,  preferences
          and limitations of a class or series of shares,  except that the Board
          of Directors may authorize a committee (or a senior executive  officer
          of the Corporation) to do so within limits specifically  prescribed by
          the Board of Directors.

     Section 2. Removal;  Vacancies. Unless the Board of Directors by resolution
determines  otherwise in accordance with authority  specified in the Articles of
Incorporation,  any member of a committee may be removed at any time exclusively
by the Board of Directors with or without cause, and vacancies in the membership
of a committee as a result of death,  resignation,  disqualification  or removal
shall be filled by a majority  of the whole  Board of  Directors.  The Board may
discharge any committee, either with or without cause, at any time.




     Section 3. Meetings.  The provisions of Article 4 governing meetings of the
Board of Directors,  action without meeting, notice, waiver of notice and quorum
and  voting  requirements  shall  apply to the  committees  of the Board and its
members to the extent not otherwise  prescribed  by the Board in the  resolution
authorizing the establishment of the committee.

     Section 4. Minutes.  Each committee  shall keep minutes of its  proceedings
and shall report thereon to the Board of Directors at or before the next meeting
of the Board.


                              ARTICLE 6 - OFFICERS

     Section 1.  Titles.  Pursuant to  authority  conferred  in the  Articles of
Incorporation,  the  Board of  Directors  shall  have the  exclusive  power  and
authority to elect from time to time such officers of the Corporation, including
a Chairman and a President (one of whom shall be the Chief Executive Officer), a
Vice Chairman,  one or more Executive Vice  Presidents,  one or more Senior Vice
Presidents,  one or more Vice Presidents,  a Chief Financial  Officer, a General
Counsel,  a  Controller,  a  Treasurer,  a  Secretary,  one  or  more  Assistant
Controllers,  one or  more  Assistant  Treasurers,  and  one or  more  Assistant
Secretaries,  and such other officers as shall be deemed  necessary or desirable
from time to time.  The officers shall have the authority and perform the duties
set  forth  herein  or as from  time to time may be  prescribed  by the Board of
Directors.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same  individual,  but no
officer may act in more than one capacity  where action of two or more  officers
is required.

     The officers of the Corporation may appoint one or more individuals to hold
a title which  includes  Assistant  or Deputy  together  with one of the officer
titles indicated  above. An individual  holding such title by virtue of being so
appointed  rather than by virtue of being  elected to such position by the Board
of  Directors  shall not be an officer of the  Corporation  for  purposes of the
Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws.

     Section 2.  Election;  Removal.  Pursuant  to  authority  conferred  in the
Articles of  Incorporation,  the  officers of the  Corporation  shall be elected
exclusively  by the Board of  Directors  and shall serve at the  pleasure of the
Board as specified at the time of their  election,  until their  successors  are
elected  and  qualify,  or until the  earlier of their  resignation  or removal.
Pursuant to authority  conferred in the Articles of  Incorporation,  any officer
may be removed by the Board at any time with or without cause.

     Section 3. Compensation. Pursuant to authority conferred in the Articles of
Incorporation,  the  compensation of the officers shall be fixed by the Board of
Directors.



     Section 4. General Powers of Officers.  Except as may be otherwise provided
in these Bylaws or in the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, the Chairman,
the Vice Chairman, the President,  any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice
President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel,
the  Controller,  the  Treasurer,  the  Secretary,  or any one of them,  may (i)
execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation,  in the name of any division
of the Corporation, or in both names, any agreement, contract, deed, instrument,
power of attorney or other document pertaining to the business or affairs of the
Corporation  or any  division  of the  Corporation,  and  (ii)  delegate  to any
employee or agent the power to execute and deliver any such agreement, contract,
deed, instrument, power of attorney or other document.

     Section 5. Chief  Executive  Officer.  The Chief  Executive  Officer of the
Corporation shall report directly to the Board.  Except in such instances as the
Board may confer powers in particular  transactions upon any other officer,  and
subject to the control and direction of the Board,  the Chief Executive  Officer
shall manage the business and affairs of the Corporation  and shall  communicate
to the Board and any committee  thereof reports,  proposals and  recommendations
for their respective  consideration or action. He may do and perform all acts on
behalf of the Corporation.

     Section 6. Chairman. The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the Board of
Directors and the Shareholders and shall have such other powers and perform such
other duties as the Board may prescribe or as may be prescribed in these Bylaws.

     Section 7. Vice  Chairman.  The Vice  Chairman  shall have such  powers and
perform such duties as the Board or the Chairman (to the extent he is authorized
by the  Board of  Directors  to  prescribe  the  authority  and  duties of other
officers)  may from  time to time  prescribe  or as may be  prescribed  by these
Bylaws.

     Section 8. President. The President shall have such powers and perform such
duties  as the  Board  and the  Chief  Executive  Officer  (to the  extent he is
authorized  by the Board of Directors to prescribe  the  authority and duties of
other officers) may from time to time prescribe or as may be prescribed by these
Bylaws.

     Section 9.  Executive  Vice  Presidents,  Senior Vice  Presidents  and Vice
Presidents.  The Executive  Vice  Presidents,  Senior Vice  Presidents  and Vice
Presidents  shall have such powers and  perform  such duties as the Board or the
Chief  Executive  Officer  (to the  extent  he is  authorized  by the  Board  of
Directors to prescribe the authority and duties of other officers) may from time
to time prescribe or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws.



     Section 10. Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall have
powers and perform such duties as the Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer (to
the extent he is authorized by the Board of Directors to prescribe the authority
and  duties  of other  officers)  may from time to time  prescribe  or as may be
prescribed in these  Bylaws.  The Chief  Financial  Officer shall present to the
Board such  balance  sheets,  income  statements,  budgets  and other  financial
statements  and  reports  as the Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer  (to the
extent he is authorized by the Board of Directors to prescribe the authority and
duties of other officers) may require and shall perform such other duties as may
be prescribed  or assigned  pursuant to these Bylaws and all other acts incident
to the position of Chief Financial Officer.

     Section  11.  Controller.  The  Controller  shall  be  responsible  for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records of all assets,  liabilities,  capital
and transactions of the  Corporation.  The Controller shall prepare such balance
sheets, income statements, budgets and other financial statements and reports as
the Board or the Chief Executive  Officer or the Chief Financial Officer (to the
extent they are  authorized by the Board of Directors to prescribe the authority
and duties of other  officers) may require,  and shall perform such other duties
as may be  prescribed  or assigned  pursuant to these  Bylaws and all other acts
incident to the position of Controller.

     Section 12. Treasurer.

     (a) The  Treasurer  shall  have the  care  and  custody  of all  funds  and
securities of the Corporation  except as may be otherwise  ordered by the Board,
and shall cause such funds (i) to be invested  or  reinvested  from time to time
for the benefit of the  Corporation  as may be designated by the Board or by the
Chairman, the Vice Chairman,  the President,  the Chief Financial Officer or the
Treasurer  (to the extent they are  authorized by the Board of Directors to make
such designations),  or (ii) to be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in
such banks or depositories as may be designated by the Board or by the Chairman,
the President,  the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer (to the extent they
are authorized by the Board of Directors to make such  designations),  and shall
cause  such  securities  to be placed in  safekeeping  in such  manner as may be
designated by the Board or by the Chairman,  the President,  the Chief Financial
Officer or the  Treasurer  (to the extent  they are  authorized  by the Board of
Directors to make such designations).

     (b) The Treasurer or such other person or persons as may be designated  for
such purpose by the Board or by the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial
Officer or the  Treasurer  (to the extent  they are  authorized  by the Board of
Directors  to make such  designations)  may endorse in the name and on behalf of
the  Corporation  all  instruments  for the  payment of money,  bills of lading,
warehouse receipts,  insurance policies and other commercial documents requiring
such endorsement.



     (c) The Treasurer or such other person or persons as may be designated  for
such purpose by the Board or by the Chairman, the President, the Chief Financial
Officer or the  Treasurer  (to the extent  they are  authorized  by the Board of
Directors to make such designations), (i) may sign all receipts and vouchers for
payments  made to the  Corporation;  (ii) shall  provide a statement of the cash
account of the  Corporation  to the Board as often as it shall require the same;
and (iii) shall enter  regularly  in the books to be kept for that  purpose full
and  accurate  account  of all  moneys  received  and  paid  on  account  of the
Corporation and of all securities received and delivered by the Corporation.

     (d) The  Treasurer  shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or
assigned pursuant to these Bylaws and all other acts incident to the position of
Treasurer.

     Section 13. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings
of the  Shareholders,  the Board and the Committees of the Board.  The Secretary
shall  attend to the giving and  serving of all notices of the  Corporation,  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of these Bylaws and as required by the laws of
the State of North  Carolina.  The  Secretary  shall  cause to be  prepared  and
maintained  (i) at the office of the  Corporation a stock ledger  containing the
names and addresses of all  Shareholders  and the number of shares held by each,
and (ii) any list of Shareholders required by law to be prepared for any meeting
of Shareholders. The Secretary shall be responsible for the custody of all stock
books  and of all  unissued  stock  certificates.  The  Secretary  shall  be the
custodian of the seal of the Corporation.  The Secretary shall affix or cause to
be affixed the seal of the Corporation,  and when so affixed may attest the same
and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned pursuant to
these Bylaws and all other acts incident to the position of Secretary.

     Section 14. Voting upon Securities.  Unless otherwise  ordered by the Board
of Directors,  the Chairman,  the President,  any Executive Vice President,  any
Senior Vice President or any Vice President  shall have full power and authority
on behalf of the Corporation to attend, act and vote at meetings of the security
holders of any entity in which this Corporation may hold securities, and at such
meetings  shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers  incident
to the ownership of such  securities and which,  as the owner,  the  Corporation
might have  possessed  and  exercised if present.  The Board of Directors may by
resolution  from time to time confer such power and authority upon any person or
persons.

     Section 15. Continuing Determination by Board. All powers and duties of the
officers  shall  be  subject  to a  continuing  determination  by the  Board  of
Directors.



                            ARTICLE 7 - CAPITAL STOCK

     Section 1. Certificates.  Unless the Board determines otherwise,  shares of
the capital stock of the Corporation  shall be represented by certificates.  The
name  and  address  of the  persons  to whom  shares  of  capital  stock  of the
Corporation  are issued,  with the number of shares and date of issue,  shall be
entered on the stock  transfer  records  of the  Corporation.  Certificates  for
shares  of the  capital  stock  of the  Corporation  shall  be in such  form not
inconsistent  with the Articles of  Incorporation of the Corporation as shall be
approved by the Board of Directors.  Each  certificate  shall be signed  (either
manually  or by  facsimile)  by (a) the  Chairman,  the  President  or any  Vice
President,  and by the Secretary,  any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any
Assistant  Treasurer  or  (b)  any  two  officers  designated  by the  Board  of
Directors.  Each  certificate  may be sealed with the seal of the Corporation or
facsimile thereof.

     Section 2.  Transfer of Shares.  Transfers  of shares  shall be made on the
stock transfer records of the Corporation, and transfers shall be made only upon
surrender of the  certificate  for the shares  sought to be  transferred  by the
holder  of  record  or  by  a  duly  authorized   agent,   transferee  or  legal
representative.  All  certificates  surrendered for transfer or reissue shall be
cancelled before new certificates for the shares shall be issued.

     Section 3. Transfer Agent and Registrar. The Board of Directors may appoint
one or more  transfer  agents and one or more  registrars  of transfers  and may
require all stock  certificates  to be signed or  countersigned  by the transfer
agent and registered by the registrar.

     Section  4.  Regulations.  The Board of  Directors  may make such rules and
regulations  as  it  deems   expedient   concerning  the  issue,   transfer  and
registration of shares of capital stock of the Corporation.

     Section 5. Fixing Record Date. For the purpose of determining  Shareholders
entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Shareholders,  or entitled to
receive  payment  of any  dividend,  or in  order  to  make a  determination  of
Shareholders for any other purpose,  the Board of Directors may fix in advance a
date as the record date for the  determination of Shareholders.  The record date
shall  not be more  than 60 days  before  the  meeting  or  action  requiring  a
determination  of  Shareholders.  A determination  of  Shareholders  entitled to
notice  of or to vote at a  Shareholders'  meeting  shall be  effective  for any
adjournment  of the  meeting  unless the Board of  Directors  fixes a new record
date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days
after the date fixed for the  original  meeting.  If no record date is fixed for
the  determination of Shareholders,  the record date shall be the day the notice
of the  meeting is mailed or the day the action  requiring  a  determination  of
Shareholders is taken.



     Section  6.  Lost  Certificates.  In case of  loss,  theft,  mutilation  or
destruction  of any  certificate  evidencing  shares of the capital stock of the
Corporation,  another may be issued in its place upon proof of such loss, theft,
mutilation  or  destruction  and  upon  the  giving  of an  indemnity  or  other
undertaking  to the  Corporation  in such  form and in such sum as the Board may
direct.


                         ARTICLE 8 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

     Section 1.  Dividends and other  Distributions.  The Board of Directors may
from time to time declare and the  Corporation  may pay  dividends or make other
distributions  with respect to its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the
terms and conditions provided by law.

     Section 2. Seal.  The seal of the  Corporation  shall be any form  approved
from time to time by the Board of Directors.

     Section 3. Waiver of Notice.  Whenever  notice is required to be given to a
Shareholder,  Director or other person under the provisions of these Bylaws, the
Articles of Incorporation or applicable  statute,  a waiver in writing signed by
the person or persons  entitled to the notice,  whether before or after the date
and time  stated in the  notice,  and  delivered  to the  Corporation,  shall be
equivalent to giving the notice.

     Section 4. Depositaries.  The Chairman, the President,  the Chief Financial
Officer, and the Treasurer are each authorized to designate depositaries for the
funds of the  Corporation  deposited  in its name or that of a  division  of the
Corporation, or both, and the signatories with respect thereto in each case, and
from time to time, to change such  depositaries and  signatories,  with the same
force and effect as if each such  depository  and the  signatories  with respect
thereto and changes  therein had been  specifically  designated or authorized by
the Board; and each depositary  designated by the Board or by the Chairman,  the
President,  the Chief Financial  Officer,  or the Treasurer shall be entitled to
rely upon the  certificate  of the Secretary or any  Assistant  Secretary of the
Corporation setting forth the fact of such designation and of the appointment of
the officers of the  Corporation  or of other persons who are to be  signatories
with respect to the withdrawal of funds deposited with such depositary,  or from
time to time the fact of any change in any depositary or in the signatories with
respect thereto.

     Section 5. Signatories.  Unless otherwise designated by the Board or by the
Chairman,  the President,  the Chief  Financial  Officer or the  Treasurer,  all
notes, drafts, checks,  acceptances and orders for the payment of money shall be
(a) signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, and (b) countersigned by
the Controller or any Assistant Controller, or either signed or countersigned by
the Chairman,  the Vice Chairman,  the President,  any Executive Vice President,
any Senior Vice  



President or any Vice President in lieu of either the officers designated in (a)
or the officers designated in (b) of this Section.

     Section 6. Proxies.  Unless  otherwise  provided for by a resolution of the
Board,  the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any Vice  President  or  Secretary or
Assistant  Secretary  designated by the Board,  may from time to time appoint an
attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation to cast, in the name
and on  behalf  of the  Corporation,  the votes  which  the  Corporation  may be
entitled  to cast as the  holder  of  stock  or other  securities  in any  other
corporation,  any  of  whose  stock  or  other  securities  may be  held  by the
Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such
other  corporation or to consent in writing,  in the name of the  Corporation as
such  holder,  to any action by such other  corporation,  and may  instruct  the
person or persons so  appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving
such consent,  and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf
of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise,  all such written
proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.

     Section 7. Fiscal Year. The Fiscal year of the  Corporation  shall be fixed
by the Board of Directors.

     Section 8. Amendments. These Bylaws may be amended or repealed by the Board
of  Directors,  including  any  Bylaw  adopted,  amended,  or  repealed  by  the
Shareholders  generally.  These  Bylaws  may  be  amended  or  repealed  by  the
Shareholders even though the Bylaws may also be amended or repealed by the Board
of Directors.


                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.5

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        SALES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

     This Sales and Distribution Agreement ("Agreement") dated as of the 1st day
of  November,  1998  (the  "Effective  Date"),  by  and  among  AmeriServe  Food
Distribution,  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation  (the  "Seller"),  Tricon  Global
Restaurants,  Inc., a North Carolina corporation ("Tricon"),  Pizza Hut, Inc., a
Delaware  corporation  ("Pizza Hut"), Taco Bell Corp., a California  corporation
("Taco Bell"), Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation,  a Delaware corporation,  and
Kentucky Fried Chicken of  California,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  (Kentucky
Fried Chicken  Corporation  and Kentucky Fried Chicken of  California,  Inc. are
together referred to herein as "KFC"); (Tricon, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC are
collectively referred to herein as the "Buyer").

     WHEREAS,   Seller  is  an  approved  distributor  of  all  proprietary  and
non-proprietary  food, supplies,  equipment,  smallwares,  uniforms,  beverages,
promotional  items and point of purchase  materials sold to Pizza Hut, Taco Bell
and KFC company owned and franchised (including licensed) restaurants; and

     WHEREAS, the Buyer desires to appoint Seller, and Seller desires to act, as
the exclusive  distributor of certain  proprietary and non proprietary  food and
packaging products as described in Section 2(b) herein sold to the company owned
Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  of the Buyer within the  continental
United States, (not including certain restaurants subject to a sales contract or
letter of intent as described below),  all on the terms and conditions set forth
herein;

     WHEREAS, Buyer and Seller are parties to a Sales and Distribution Agreement
dated May 6, 1997 (the "Original Agreement");

     WHEREAS,  Buyer  and  Seller  desire  to amend  and  restate  the  Original
Agreement with this Agreement as of the Effective Date;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1.   Appointment  as Approved  Distributor  of all Company Owned and  Franchised
     Restaurants.

     (a) Buyer hereby appoints Seller as an approved distributor during the term
of this Agreement of the Restaurant  Products  (defined below) sold to all Pizza
Hut, Taco Bell and KFC restaurants,  whether franchised or owned by Buyer or its
subsidiaries or affiliates,  in the United States (including Hawaii and Alaska),
Canada and the countries where Seller currently exports Restaurant Products from
its  distribution  centers in the United States,  which  countries are listed in
Exhibit A attached hereto (the "Export Countries").  Seller understands that the
appointment  contained in this Section 1 is not  exclusive and that Seller shall
only have the exclusive  distribution  rights for the  

Page 1 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


restaurants  and  products  described in Section 2 below.  In  addition,  Seller
understands  that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as an approval by
Buyer of Seller as a purchasing organization or purchasing agent with respect to
any of the  restaurants  described in the first  sentence of this Section 1, and
that such approval must be separately  requested by Seller and may be granted by
Buyer, in its sole discretion, from time to time.

     (b) For purposes of this Agreement,  the term  "Restaurant  Products" shall
mean  all  of  the  proprietary  and  non-proprietary  food,  equipment,  office
supplies,  non-office  supplies (cleaning  chemicals,  trash can liners,  etc.),
packaging  products  (including,   without  limitation,   all  paper  products),
smallwares  (pans,  brooms,  cutting  knives,  salt and pepper  shakers,  etc.),
uniforms,  beverages,  promotional  items (as  defined in Exhibit D hereto)  and
point of purchase  materials (table tents,  door hangers,  etc.) currently or in
the future approved by the respective  Buyer for purchase by any Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell or KFC company  owned or franchised  restaurants.  For purposes of clarity,
smallwares, as generally known, are reusable items with small dollar values such
as the ones described  above which are used in the operation of the business and
(i) expensed  under the Buyer's  accounting  practices in place on the Effective
Date when  they are for  replacements  and (ii)  capitalized  under the  Buyer's
accounting  practices in place on the Effective  Date when they are purchased as
part of a new restaurant opening or a major rollout of a new Restaurant Product.
The key smallwares categories are as follows: (A) Utensils (spoodles,  spatulas,
tongs, cooking knives/forks/spoons, wire whips, etc.); (B) Food prep and storage
(pans,  separators,  containers and lids,  bowls,  squeeze  bottles,  etc.); (C)
Tabletop Items (stainless cutlery,  glassware,  plates, cruet sets, tablecloths,
etc.); (D) Parts (can opener blades,  slicer blades,  fryer gaskets,  etc.); and
(E) Janitorial & cleaning reusables (mops, buckets, brushes, garbage cans, spray
bottles,  urinal  screens,  etc.).  In  contrast,  equipment  items  are  always
capitalized under the Buyer's current  accounting  practice (whether as a new or
replacement item) and food and supplies are always expensed.

     (c) All suppliers and  specifications  for all Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC
Restaurant  Products  purchased by Seller must be approved in advance in writing
by Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC,  respectively.  Seller hereby acknowledges that
it  shall  have  no  role  in the  process  of  approving  any  supplier  or the
specifications for the Restaurant Products. As described in Section 7 below, the
Buyer's  Supply Chain  Management  division or other  equivalent  or  designated
purchasing  function,  (referred  to  collectively  as  "SCM")  and  any  person
designated in writing by SCM  (together  with SCM, an "SCM Party") as having the
right, whether as agent or independent  contractor for, or assignee, of, SCM, to
exercise the rights of SCM or an SCM Party under this Agreement, shall negotiate
the price and other purchase terms of all Restaurant  Products sold by Seller to
the Exclusive  Restaurants  (defined below). Buyer shall provide at least thirty
(30) days prior written notice to Seller of the  designation of an SCM Party and
shall not permit  there to be any overlap  among SCM Parties for  responsibility
for the  purchase of any  Restaurant  Product.  Seller  agrees that it shall not
purchase Restaurant Products under agreements negotiated by an SCM Party for any
customers other than Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants  without the prior
written  approval  of such SCM Party.  Any 

Page 2 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


breach of the preceding sentence by Seller shall constitute a material breach of
this Agreement.

     (d) As  described  in this  Section 1,  during  the term of this  Agreement
(including as extended solely for non-exclusive  distributor  status pursuant to
Section 9), Seller is an approved  distributor  of  Restaurant  Products for all
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  throughout the United States,  Canada
and the Export  Countries.  All sections of this Agreement  after this Section 1
shall,  however,  only describe the  relationship  between Buyer and Seller with
respect  to  certain  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  within the 48
contiguous  States of the United  States of  America  (the  "Continental  United
States"). To the extent that Seller sells Restaurant Products to Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell or KFC  restaurants  outside of the  Continental  United States,  Buyer and
Seller  shall  separately  agree on the  terms of their  relationship  for these
restaurants.

2.   Appointment as Exclusive Distributor of Company Owned Restaurants.

     (a) Buyer hereby  appoints Seller as the exclusive  distributor  during the
term of this Agreement of the "Exclusive  Restaurant  Products"  (defined below)
purchased by (i) the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC restaurants  (traditional  and
nontraditional  units) within the  Continental  United States which are owned by
Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries  (defined below) on the Effective Date,  except
for Restaurants Under Definitive Contract or Letter of Intent (defined below) or
(ii) any additional  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants  (traditional  and
nontraditional) within the Continental United States which are acquired or built
by Buyer or its  Subsidiaries  during the Initial Term or any Extension  Term of
this  Agreement  (the  "Exclusive  Restaurants").  The term  "Restaurants  Under
Definitive  Contract or Letter of Intent" shall mean any Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or
KFC restaurants  owned by Buyer which the Buyer has agreed to sell pursuant to a
definitive  agreement or Letter of Intent signed by the parties thereto prior to
the Effective Date, provided, however, that until any restaurant included in the
transactions  the subject of such  definitive  agreement  or letter of intent is
sold, it shall remain an Exclusive Restaurant, and if it is not sold pursuant to
such  definitive  agreement  or letter of intent,  it shall  remain an Exclusive
Restaurant.  A list of  "Restaurants  Under  Definitive  Contract  or  Letter of
Intent" is  attached  hereto as Exhibit  B.  During the term of this  Agreement,
Buyer and its  Subsidiaries  shall  purchase,  and  Seller  agrees to sell,  100
percent  of  the  Exclusive   Restaurant  Products  required  by  the  Exclusive
Restaurants,   except  incidental  purchases  in  emergency  situations  and  as
otherwise  provided  herein.  The  Buyer  agrees  that  during  the term of this
Agreement no supplier or distributor  other than Seller shall sell the Exclusive
Restaurant Products to the Exclusive  Restaurants;  provided,  however,  that if
Seller for any reason fails to deliver any  Exclusive  Restaurant  products on a
scheduled  delivery date which was ordered within the time required for ordering
as described  in  subsection  5(c) hereof,  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  shall be
permitted to purchase such Exclusive  Restaurant Products from another source or
sources to meet its requirements (but only for such order and not for any future
orders),  and no such  purchase  shall  be  construed  as a  breach  of  Buyer's
obligations or require  additional  compensation  to Seller.  The term Exclusive
Restaurants  shall  include all types of  nontraditional  restaurants  including
kiosks,  carts,  delivery units and  restaurants in hotels,  

Page 3 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


schools,   airports,   hospitals,  or  in  joint  consumer  outlets,   including
supermarkets,  convenience stores, gas stations or similar arrangements,  but it
shall not include any  restaurants  owned,  acquired or built by Buyer which are
not Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC restaurants.

     For purposes of this  Agreement,  the term "Concept" shall mean each of the
Buyer's  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and  Taco  Bell  restaurant  businesses,  and the term
"Concepts" shall mean such businesses in the aggregate.  To the extent the Buyer
owns, acquires or builds any restaurant concept(s) other than the Concepts, they
will only be considered Exclusive  Restaurants under this Agreement if the Buyer
and Seller specifically agree in writing to include them under this Agreement.

     (b)  For  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the  term  "Exclusive  Restaurant
Products" shall mean all proprietary and  non-proprietary  food (including fresh
produce but excluding fresh chicken,  as defined by FDA regulations),  packaging
products  (including,  without  limitation,  all paper products),  national soft
drinks and  promotional  items (as defined in Exhibit D hereto)  currently or in
the future  approved  by the  respective  Buyer for  purchase  by any  Exclusive
Restaurant.  Smallwares  and non-office  supplies  (which  include,  but are not
limited to,  cleaning  chemicals  and trash can liners) will become an Exclusive
Restaurant Product,  provided that Buyer and Seller,  negotiating in good faith,
agree on a comprehensive  operations and pricing  arrangement.  Until that time,
smallwares  and  non-office  supplies will be priced and serviced  under current
arrangements  as set forth in  Exhibit C. Fresh  chicken,  equipment,  uniforms,
smallwares  (except as set forth above),  office supplies,  non-office  supplies
(except as set forth above) and point of purchase  materials shall not be within
the definition of Exclusive Restaurant  Products.  National soft drinks will not
be included in the  definition  of Exclusive  Restaurant  Products to the extent
that the  distribution  thereof by Seller could,  in the reasonable  judgment of
Buyer, be expected to subject the Buyer to contractual  restrictions  that could
operate to limit the  ability of the Buyer to offer  certain  brands of national
soft drinks to its customers. Buyer will use reasonable efforts to negotiate the
removal of such  contractual  restrictions.  New Exclusive  Restaurant  Products
which are being tested can be  distributed by a company other than Seller in one
test  market  for up to 90  days.  As a  result,  Seller  shall  be an  approved
distributor  as described in Section 1 above (but not an exclusive  distributor)
of all  such  nonexclusive  Restaurant  Products  which  are  excluded  from the
definition of Exclusive Restaurant  Products.  The above definition of Exclusive
Restaurant  Products  may be  changed  only by  written  agreement  of Buyer and
Seller.

     (c)  Buyer and  Seller  agree to  reasonably  cooperate  to work  towards a
generic product  procurement  program for generic items (e.g., trash can liners,
toilet paper,  cleaning  materials,  etc.) with Seller acting as the supplier of
these products and which would result in price  reductions of at least 1 percent
below current  levels.  The program is subject to Buyer's final approval and the
generic  products  to be  included  within  such  program  shall be agreed to in
writing in advance from time to time by the parties  hereto.  Buyer  retains all
rights to grant and revoke the approval of all specifications and qualifications
of such generic  products thereof and Seller agrees not to disclose any 

Page 4 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


proposed changes or modifications of such  specifications  or  qualifications to
existing  suppliers  prior  to  the  Buyer's  written  approval  thereof.  It is
understood  that the intent of such product  program  would be to permit  volume
purchases from vendors and, as such,  generic product  negotiations with vendors
would from time to time  include  negotiations  in respect of Buyer's  needs for
such  products and the  concurrent  needs of other  customers of Seller for such
products.  Seller agrees that for any specific  generic product for which Seller
is designated as the sole supplier to the Exclusive  Restaurants,  Buyer will be
charged  no more on a per item  basis for such  product  (meeting  substantially
similar specifications) than Seller charges any other customer therefor.

     (d) For purposes of this Agreement,  the term "Subsidiaries" shall mean the
companies,  partnerships  or other  entities  in which the Buyer owns at least a
majority of the total equity  interests.  For purposes of convenience  only, the
numerous  Subsidiaries  of the Buyer who own the Exclusive  Restaurants  are not
signing this  Agreement.  The Buyer hereby  unconditionally  guarantees the full
performance  of the  obligations  of its  Subsidiaries  who  own  the  Exclusive
Restaurants   during  the  term  of  this  Agreement  and  the  fact  that  such
Subsidiaries  are not  signing  this  Agreement  shall not affect in any way the
rights or obligations of the Buyer or Seller under this Agreement.

     (e) A list of the  Exclusive  Restaurants  on the  Effective  Date  will be
provided by the Buyer to Seller on or about the Effective Date,  which list will
be the initial list of the Exclusive Restaurants.  If during the Initial Term or
any  Extension  Term of this  Agreement  the  Buyer  or any of its  Subsidiaries
acquires or builds any additional Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants,  the
Buyer shall so notify Seller and such additional  restaurants  shall be added to
the list of  Exclusive  Restaurants  and  become  subject  to the  terms of this
Agreement for the remaining  period of the Initial Term or any Extension Term of
this Agreement.  If the Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries  sell, or enters into a
definitive  agreement to sell, any Pizza Hut or Taco Bell Exclusive  Restaurants
prior to December  31, 1999,  and the buyer of such  Exclusive  Restaurants  is,
immediately prior to the sale, a Pizza Hut or Taco Bell franchisee, and is among
the buyers that acquire the initial two hundred Pizza Hut Exclusive Restaurants,
in the case of a Pizza Hut  franchisee,  or the initial  two  hundred  Taco Bell
Exclusive Restaurants,  in the case of a Taco Bell franchisee, sold by the Buyer
in  the  period  following  the  Effective  Date  (excluding  Restaurants  under
Definitive  Contract  or  Letter  of  Intent),   the  buyer  of  such  Exclusive
Restaurants  shall be  required  prior to such  sale to enter  into a Sales  and
Distribution  Agreement  with Seller with  respect to such  purchased  Exclusive
Restaurants  either,  at the election of such buyer, in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit G-1(B)  (having a term the same as the Original  Agreement plus a six
(6) month  extension) or Exhibit G-2 (having a term the same as this Agreement).
The buyer of  "Restaurants  Under  Definitive  Contract  or  Letter  of  Intent"
(excluding KFC restaurants) shall be required prior to such sale to enter into a
Sales and  Distribution  Agreement with Seller with respect to such  restaurants
either,  at the election of such buyer,  in the form attached  hereto as Exhibit
G-1(A) (having a term the same as the Original Agreement) or Exhibit G-2 (having
a term  the same as this  Agreement).  If the  Buyer or any of its  Subsidiaries
sell, or enters into a definitive  agreement to sell, any Pizza Hut or Taco Bell
Exclusive  Restaurant during the Initial Term of this Agreement,  to a buyer not
covered by either of 

Page 5 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


the two immediately preceding sentences,  the buyer of such Exclusive Restaurant
shall be  required  prior to such sale,  to enter  into a Sale and  Distribution
Agreement with the Seller in the form attached  hereto as Exhibit G-2. Once such
buyer  enters  into such a Sales and  Distribution  Agreement  with  Seller with
respect to such purchased Exclusive Restaurants, the Buyer shall have no further
obligations  under  this  Agreement  with  respect to such  purchased  Exclusive
Restaurants  and the Buyer shall not  guarantee  in any way the payment or other
obligations of such buyer to Seller.  If the buyer of such Exclusive  Restaurant
already owns other  franchised  Pizza Hut or Taco Bell  restaurants,  such other
restaurants  owned by such  buyer  shall not be  required  to  become  Exclusive
Restaurants  subject  to the  terms of the  applicable  Sales  and  Distribution
Agreement.  The requirement that refranchised  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Exclusive
Restaurants must continue to be Exclusive Restaurants under this Agreement shall
not apply to KFC Exclusive  Restaurants sold by Buyer or its Subsidiaries during
the term of this Agreement.  If a KFC Exclusive  Restaurant is sold by the Buyer
or its  Subsidiaries  during the term of this Agreement and becomes a franchised
KFC  restaurant,  the  terms  of this  Agreement  shall  not  apply  to said KFC
restaurant which will be removed from the list of Exclusive Restaurants.

3.   Prices for Exclusive Restaurant Products.

     (a) The prices to be paid by the  Exclusive  Restaurants  for the Exclusive
Restaurant  Products  purchased  from Seller  during the term of this  Agreement
shall  be  equal to (x) the  "Landed  Cost"  (defined  below)  of the  Exclusive
Restaurant  Products plus a mark-up  described in Exhibit D attached hereto plus
(y) the costs of SCM allocated to the Exclusive  Restaurant Products and charged
to Seller as  described  in Section 7 below.  The  mark-ups  listed on Exhibit D
become effective on January 1, 1999. Until that date, the Landed Cost, mark-ups,
freight  and  other  pricing  provisions  will be those  provided  for under the
Original  Agreement.  Buyer will give Seller 60 days prior written notice of any
changes in the amount of or manner of the SCM fee.  As  described  in Exhibit D,
the mark-up will be different for the different  restaurant  chains,  Pizza Hut,
Taco Bell and KFC. The mark-up applicable to Exclusive  Restaurant Products that
are used in  common by each  Concept  in a "2n1" or "3n1"  Exclusive  Restaurant
shall be the markup  specified  for the Concept  under which such "2n1" or "3n1"
Exclusive  Restaurant  is  operated  and  numbered  by the  Buyer.  The  mark-up
applicable to Exclusive  Restaurant  Products that are  proprietary to a Concept
shall be that Concept's specified mark-up.

     (b) As used  in this  Agreement,  the  term  "Landed  Cost"  for  Exclusive
Restaurant  Products  shall mean F.O.B.  vendor's  dock price for the  Exclusive
Restaurant  Products,  plus standard  freight from the F.O.B.  point to Seller's
distribution  center  dock.  All  weight  and  quantity  discounts,  promotional
allowances,  rebates and special discounts reasonably allocable to the Exclusive
Restaurants,  will be deducted in computing the Landed Cost. Seller shall retain
all prompt pay  discounts  which will not be factored  into the  calculation  of
Landed Cost. Buyer will not knowingly permit any SCM Party to negotiate away any
standard  vendor  prompt  pay  discounts.  Seller and its  subsidiaries  perform
value-added  services for  suppliers in addition to the  procurement  activities
typically  provided.  These  value-added  services include regional and national
marketing,  

Page 6 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


administrative  services,   quality  assurance  and  performance  based  product
marketing.  Seller and its subsidiaries may recover from such supplier the costs
of providing  these  services and may also be  compensated  by such supplier for
these services and consider this compensation to be earned income, provided that
receipt of such cost  recovery  or earned  income will not affect  Landed  Cost.
Seller  will  disclose  to Buyer on a  semi-annual  basis the  dollar  amount of
"earned  income"  received by Seller from vendors on a product  category  basis.
Neither  Buyer  nor any SCM  Party  shall  have any  restrictions  on  receiving
supplier  "earned  income" or other  supplier  incentives  such as  rebates  and
discounts.  Subject to Buyer's  prior  written  approval,  Landed  Cost may also
include   reasonable  freight  and  handling  costs  associated  with  inventory
transfers between Seller's distribution centers in cases where vendor minimum or
full truck load order  quantities  cannot  reasonably  be met,  said costs to be
reflected in the Landed Cost of the receiving Seller distribution center. Seller
will not charge for  transfers  of  inventory  that are  required  to be made by
Seller to correct inventory  shortages caused by Seller's  inventory  management
mistakes.  As  indicated  in  Exhibit E attached  hereto,  Seller and Buyer will
jointly develop a process to manage such approvals.

     For purposes of determining  Landed Cost,  Seller shall price its inventory
of  Restaurant  Products on a last in,  first out (LIFO) basis where all product
will be sold at current market value, whether that value is higher or lower than
actual inventory value.  For items priced in four-week  periods,  current market
value is defined as the purchase order cost if there is an outstanding  purchase
order with a delivery date into Seller's  distribution  center prior to the 10th
day of the period for the period which  pricing is being  determined,  or in the
absence of such a purchase order, the current Landed Cost of that item. Buyer or
the SCM Party  will  require  vendors  to give 4 weeks  notice  prior to a price
change in a period priced Restaurant  Product.  For weekly priced items (certain
commodities,  such as cheese,  produce and other products specified in a written
notice from Buyer to Seller), current market value is the current Landed Cost at
the time  pricing  is  determined  (not to exceed  three  (3) days  prior to the
beginning of the weekly period).  Buyer or the SCM Party will require vendors to
give at least three (3) days notice prior to a price  change in a weekly  priced
Restaurant  Product to the extent  consistent with agreements  between Buyer and
vendors in effect on the  Effective  Date,  or any renewal or  extension of said
agreements.

     (c) Freight  Management Rules. The Freight Management Rules attached hereto
as Exhibit E (the "Freight  Management  Rules") shall establish the standards of
performance that shall be required to be adhered to. The freight rates and other
information  necessary for establishing the pricing under the Freight Management
Rules shall be  redetermined  annually to be effective  January 1, 1999 and each
anniversary  thereof.  Freight  standards  will be based on shipment  sizes that
approximate current product mix.

     (d) Case Size and Weight  Changes  and New  Restaurant  Products.  The case
mark-ups provided for in this Agreement were based upon the actual  calculations
of average weight per case of Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  delivered in 1997
(the "Weight to Case  Ratio"),  and average  case size of  Exclusive  Restaurant
Products  delivered  in 1997 (the  "Cube to Case  Ratio"),  each as set forth in
Exhibit  D  hereto.  The per case  

Page 7 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


markup of case-priced  Exclusive Restaurant Products (not the percentage markup)
will be equitably  adjusted for any  material  change (as defined  below) in the
Weight to Case Ratio or the Cube to Case Ratio,  or for any new  product,  where
either  party  determines  in good  faith  that such  change or new  product  is
detrimental  to its  financial  position  under  the  terms  of this  Agreement,
including,  without  limitation,  a  material  change in product  mix (e.g.,  an
increase in frozen Restaurant  Products).  For case-priced  Exclusive Restaurant
Products,  a material change shall be defined as 10 percent change in either the
Weight to Case Ratio or the Cube to Case Ratio for all  products on a Concept by
Concept  basis.  Buyer shall not, and shall cause a SCM Party not to,  request a
supplier  to  increase  the  weight or case size  unless  there is a  reasonable
business purpose other than lowering the distribution  fees paid to Seller.  The
parties  agree to review these  changes for each Buyer's  Concept on a quarterly
basis.  For all other  products,  parties will negotiate  changes in good faith.
Should Buyer decide to add or modify any  Restaurant  Products in a manner which
fundamentally  alters the storage and/or  delivery  requirements  outside of the
current  methods  (e.g.,  ice cream,  bulk oil,  commissary  pizza  dough,  high
security  promotional items and game pieces), the parties shall work together in
good faith to develop, on mutually acceptable terms,  alternative storage and/or
delivery methods which meet Buyer's distribution requirements. For this purpose,
mutually  acceptable  terms  shall  include  prices  and rates  which are market
competitive  with  respect  to  the  alternative  storage  or  delivery  methods
developed by the parties. If Buyer, in its reasonable judgment,  determines that
mutually  acceptable terms have not been agreed to within a reasonable amount of
time,  Buyer may,  after  requesting  written  bid(s) for storage  and  delivery
methods that meet its requirements, enter into an agreement for the distribution
of the applicable Exclusive Restaurant Product with any person(s) providing such
a bid(s);  provided  that  Seller  shall  have the right of first  refusal  with
respect to the terms of any such bid(s),  for a period of 30 business days after
its receipt of the terms of such bid(s).

     (e) The parties will agree on the specific  method of billing the Exclusive
Restaurants  (e.g.,  electronic  billing,  faxed  invoice or other  format)  and
whenever possible  electronic billing will be used. From time to time during the
term of this  Agreement,  Buyer shall have the right to review all financial and
business records of Seller which are reasonably  requested by Buyer to determine
the Landed Costs of the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  sold to the  Exclusive
Restaurants.  Within 90 days after the end of each calendar  year,  Seller shall
provide to the Buyer a calculation by a major independent  international  public
accounting  firm,  agreed upon by Seller and Buyer,  of the Landed  Costs of all
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products sold to each of the  respective  Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell and KFC Exclusive  Restaurants  during that calendar year. Seller or Buyer,
as the case may be, will then promptly  make an adjusting  payment in respect of
any overcharges or undercharges.  Seller shall make available to the independent
accounting firm all financial records  necessary to make such  calculation.  The
costs of the  independent  accounting  firm shall be shared equally by the Buyer
and Seller (50 percent by each).

     (f) The prices  described in the  paragraphs  above shall apply only to the
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products.  For  all  Restaurant  Products  which  are not
included within the definition of Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  (e.g.,  fresh
chicken, equipment, 

Page 8 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


office  supplies,  uniforms,  smallwares  (except as  provided  in Section  2(b)
above), non-office supplies (except as provided in Section 2(b) above) and point
of  purchase  materials),  the prices  will be  negotiated  from time to time by
Seller and Buyer.

     (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the prices of the
Restaurant  Products  which are food,  paper  products  and  similar  restaurant
supplies   purchased  by  all  Pizza  Hut  franchised   restaurants  within  the
Continental  United  States  (not  including  the  Exclusive  Restaurants)  will
continue  until the expiration of the term of the Original  Agreement  (July 11,
2002) to be subject to the 2.5 percent net pre-tax profit margin limit set forth
in clause D(ii) of Section 8.3 of the standard Pizza Hut Franchise Agreement,  a
copy of which is attached  hereto as Exhibit F. Seller agrees to maintain during
the Initial Term of this  Agreement the rebate  program for this 2.5 percent net
pre-tax  profit margin limit for Pizza Hut  restaurants in a manner to be agreed
upon by Buyer and Seller,  including a basis for allocating  costs and providing
to Pizza Hut  franchisees  the audit of all allocated  costs and rebate payments
provided for under Section 8.3 of the standard  Pizza Hut  Franchise  Agreement.
Seller will be relieved of this profit  limitation if any distributor  servicing
Pizza Hut franchisees is not subject to the same profit limitations.

4.   Payment Terms for the Restaurant Products.

     (a) The Buyer  shall pay to Seller the  purchase  price for the  Restaurant
Products  delivered to and  accepted by the Buyer within 30 calendar  days after
the  date of  invoice  (which  invoice  will be the same  day as  delivery).  No
interest  shall be  charged to the Buyer with  respect  to  payments  made on or
before the due date.  Seller agrees that all credits for product on which Seller
has received  telephonic  or other notice that such product was invoiced but not
received on the scheduled  delivery  date or product  picked up for return (RMA)
will be  processed  within  24 hours of the  applicable  driver's  return to the
distribution  center,  provided  that the data  transmittal  for all weekend and
holiday returns is processed before the evening of the following business day.

     (b) If any  amounts  due to  Seller  are not  paid in  accordance  with the
payment terms when due as described in subsection  4(a) above,  a service charge
shall be added to the sums due, which charge shall be equal to the lesser of (i)
an interest charge determined by applying to the delinquent  balance an interest
rate equal to the prime rate of interest of Citibank  N.A.  (as  published  from
time to time) plus 2 percent per annum or (ii) the amount determined by applying
the maximum rate permitted to be charged under applicable state law.

5.   Deliveries and Orders of the Restaurant  Products  excluding  Equipment and
     Non Fleet Smallwares.

     (a) The  provisions of this Section 5 describe the mechanics and procedures
for ordering and delivering all of the Restaurant Products  distributed and sold
by  Seller  to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  except  for the new and  replacement
equipment  and  furnishings  which  Seller  sells to the  Exclusive  Restaurants
through  its  equipment  business  and  certain  

Page 9 of 45                                                   December 18, 1998


smallware  items  which are not  delivered  through  the  Seller's  distribution
centers  (the  "Non  Fleet  Smallwares").  The  Restaurant  Products,  excluding
equipment and furnishings and the Non Fleet Smallwares,  is hereinafter referred
to as the "Covered Products." The specific mechanics and procedures for ordering
and  delivering of equipment and  furnishings is not described in this Agreement
and will be subject to the  agreement  of Seller and the  Exclusive  Restaurants
from time to time.  The  specific  mechanics  and  procedures  for  ordering and
delivering of Non Fleet Smallwares are set forth in Exhibit C hereto.

     (b)  Deliveries of the Covered  Products  shall be made twice a week to the
Exclusive Restaurants. If the Buyer desires to have more than two deliveries per
week for any particular Exclusive Restaurants, the Buyer will be required to pay
an additional  charge to Seller in an amount to be negotiated and agreed upon by
Seller and Buyer.  Seller will offer to Buyer a discount off the purchase  price
of the Covered  Products  (in an amount  determined  by Seller) if an  Exclusive
Restaurant  agrees to reduce the number of its  scheduled  deliveries  per week.
Seller may deliver the ordered Covered  Products to the Exclusive  Restaurant at
any time during which the Exclusive  Restaurant is open for business  except for
the black out  periods  described  in Exhibit H attached  hereto,  or such other
black out periods which are previously  agreed upon in writing by Seller and the
regional  managers of the  Exclusive  Restaurants.  Before the beginning of each
black out period,  Seller's drivers must complete their deliveries and be out of
the  Exclusive  Restaurant  and failure to do so will not be considered as an on
time  delivery.  Seller  agrees to start  deliveries  within one hour (before or
after)  of  the  expected  delivery  time  that  Seller  notifies  an  Exclusive
Restaurant.  As  examples:  (i) if the  expected  delivery  time is  9:00am  and
Seller's  driver starts the delivery  between  8:00am and 10:00am,  the delivery
will be on time but (ii) if the  expected  delivery  time is 11:00am  for a Taco
Bell  restaurant and Seller's driver starts the delivery at 11:00am but does not
complete the delivery by 11:30am,  the delivery will not be on time. Seller will
notify the Exclusive Restaurants of the expected delivery time no later than the
day preceding  the date of delivery.  If the delivery  cannot be started  within
such two hour period (one hour before and one hour after the scheduled  delivery
time),  Seller will notify the Exclusive  Restaurant in advance but the delivery
will  still  be made  the same  day.  The  regional  managers  of the  Exclusive
Restaurants may waive in writing the black out period  delivery  prohibition and
accept delivery  during the black out period.  Seller will be allowed to deliver
the Covered  Products when the  Exclusive  Restaurant is closed (so called "key"
deliveries) only with the prior written approval of an authorized representative
of the Buyer (or other appropriate  level employee of the Exclusive  Restaurants
as  designated  by the  Buyer).  If  Seller's  driver sets off an alarm at a key
delivery  (other  than  because  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  did not provide the
correct alarm code) and there are charges  incurred by the Exclusive  Restaurant
as a result of such alarm,  Seller will  reimburse the Exclusive  Restaurant for
such charges. Delivery days and times will be scheduled so as to cause as little
interruption to the operation of the Exclusive Restaurants as is practical under
the circumstances.

     (c) Orders by the Buyer for the Covered  Products must be made to Seller no
later than 5:00pm on the day which is two days prior to the  scheduled  delivery
date; 

Page 10 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


provided,  however,  that for  Exclusive  Restaurants  which  are not close to a
distribution  center of Seller (not within one day normal  driving time from the
nearest Seller's distribution  center),  Seller may require that these orders be
made no later than 5:00pm on the day which is three days prior to the  scheduled
delivery date. If there are any exceptional cases where Seller wishes to receive
orders four days prior to the scheduled  delivery date, they must be approved in
writing by the local manager of the affected Exclusive Restaurant. Seller agrees
to  continue  to  maintain  the  "Sourcelink"  electronic  ordering  system  (or
equivalent up to date electronic  ordering  system) which  currently  allows the
Exclusive Restaurants to make electronic orders for the Covered Products. If the
Sourcelink  orders are not  received  within two hours  before the 5:00pm  order
deadline,  Seller will call the restaurant before the order deadline in order to
try to receive the order. If the  distribution  center of Seller is still unable
to receive  an order  from an  Exclusive  Restaurant  prior to the 5:00pm  order
deadline,  Seller shall automatically order for the Exclusive Restaurant for the
exact same order it received  for the same day of the previous  week  (excluding
smallwares)  and the  Exclusive  Restaurant  will be  required  to  accept  such
delivery when made.  To the extent the Exclusive  Restaurant is late in ordering
or changes its order after the 5:00pm order deadline,  Seller is not required to
accept  such late or changed  order.  If Seller  decides to accept  such late or
changed  order,  Seller  may charge  the Buyer a special  delivery  charge to be
negotiated  by Seller and Buyer.  Seller  agrees  that its  Sourcelink  computer
software and hardware (or such other electronic  ordering  software and hardware
used by Seller which is at least functionally  equivalent to Sourcelink) will be
free from errors or "bugs" related to the Year 2000 issue on or before September
30, 1999.  Seller shall  prepare a back-up  plan for making  orders  should such
software  suffer  errors or "bugs"  related to the Year 2000 issue and will make
reasonable efforts to correct any such errors or "bugs" it may suffer.

     (d)  Deliveries  shall  be to such  location  on the  Exclusive  Restaurant
premises as the Exclusive Restaurants shall reasonably direct.  Covered Products
shall be deemed  delivered  when  actually  placed in the  storage  areas of the
Exclusive Restaurant (including the temperature  controlled  compartments in the
case of the frozen or refrigerated  Covered  Products) by Seller's  drivers,  as
reasonably directed by employees of the Exclusive  Restaurant.  Seller's drivers
will not be  required  to stock  shelves or rotate  the  Covered  Products.  The
Exclusive  Restaurants  will be responsible to keep the back door and aisle free
of debris for  Seller's  drivers to deliver the Covered  Products to the storage
areas.  To the extent  practicable,  deliveries  by Seller shall have  unloading
priority over all other vendors. The Exclusive Restaurants shall assign and make
available an employee or employees to accept  delivery,  subject to the terms of
paragraph (f) below, of Covered  Products,  and to sign the invoice  documenting
receipt  of the  ordered  Covered  Products  (to  the  extent  received  and not
damaged).

     (e) Seller will only  deliver the Covered  Products  specified by the Buyer
and shall not substitute products for the Covered Products;  provided,  however,
that the delivery on an infrequent  basis of the Covered Products in a different
size than ordered shall not be considered a substitute if the total  quantity of
the Covered Products is the amount ordered (e.g.,  delivery of two 12 ounce jars
instead  of four 6 ounce  jars).  Seller  agrees  to  comply  with  all  quality
assurance programs and guidelines  consistently  required 

Page 11 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


by the Buyer for other similarly situated distributors of Restaurant Products in
the United States from time to time during the term of this  Agreement to ensure
that the quality of the  Covered  Products is  maintained  while the  Restaurant
Product is being stored,  handed and  transported  by Seller.  If Tricon quality
assurances programs and guidelines are materially modified after the date of the
Original Agreement,  Buyer agrees to discuss in good faith the reasonableness of
such change with Seller.  The current quality assurance  programs and guidelines
of each of Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC have been  provided to Seller  prior to
the date hereof.

     (f) If  ordered  Covered  Products  are  not  delivered  by  Seller  on the
scheduled delivery date (including key deliveries),  or are delivered damaged or
not  meeting  the  required  specification,  at the  request  of  the  Exclusive
Restaurant,  Seller  will make a  special  delivery  to  redeliver  the  Covered
Products as quickly as possible. In addition, Seller shall take back all Covered
Products  which are  damaged  or out of  specification  and give a credit to the
Exclusive  Restaurant  for the purchase price charged by Seller to the Exclusive
Restaurant for that product.  If the Covered  Products were out of specification
or the damages were internal and not visible to Seller upon  receiving  delivery
of the Covered  Products  from the vendor,  the vendor shall be  responsible  to
Seller for all costs relating to making such special deliveries and to take back
damaged or out of  specification  Covered  Products.  The Buyer and Seller  each
agree to use their  respective  best  efforts  to  collect  such  costs from the
vendors.

     (g) If the Buyer  decides  to return  any  nonperishable  Covered  Products
ordered by Buyer and  delivered to it within  specification,  not damaged and on
the scheduled  delivery  date,  Seller shall,  within 30 days after such return,
charge  the Buyer for taking  back such  Covered  Product an amount  equal to 15
percent of the invoice price of such Covered Product (as a restocking fee).

     (h)  Title  and  risk of loss for the  Covered  Products  purchased  by the
Exclusive  Restaurants from Seller shall pass to the Exclusive  Restaurants upon
delivery  by Seller  inside  the  Exclusive  Restaurant.  In the event  that any
Covered  Products  are  delivered  and  subsequently  returned or rejected by an
Exclusive  Restaurant,  title and risk of loss shall  revert to Seller  upon the
physical  transfer of possession  of the Covered  Products back to Seller at the
time such  Covered  Products  are  picked up by Seller  from  Buyer's  Exclusive
Restaurant.

     (i) Buyer acknowledges and agrees that Seller has full discretion to direct
all deliveries from any distribution  center which Seller operates,  and to make
such  changes  to  the  routing  process  as  Seller,  in its  sole  discretion,
determines appropriate; provided, however, that Seller shall notify the affected
Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  of any  changes in its  routes.  In
addition,  the Buyer  acknowledges  and agrees  that  Seller's  fleet may not be
solely dedicated to the distribution of Covered Products to Pizza Hut, Taco Bell
and KFC  restaurants.  As a result,  Seller's fleet which distribute the Covered
Products  to Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  may also  carry  other
products for delivery to other customers  (including competing customers) on the
same routes so long as they do not in any way damage,  contaminate  or adversely
affect the  quality of the 

Page 12 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


Covered  Products  during the delivery or  adversely  affect  deliveries  to the
Exclusive Restaurants.

     (j)  Management  of the  inventory  levels in the  distribution  centers of
Seller will be the  responsibility  of Seller  except that Seller agrees that it
will not buy any Covered  Products which Seller expects to keep in inventory for
more than 60 days without the consent of the Buyer.  Seller agrees to provide to
the extent practicable weekly information to the Buyer by distribution center of
its inventory levels of all Restaurant Products purchased through Seller. Seller
shall not be required  to buy  promotional  items or new or test market  Covered
Products  until it first receives a firm  commitment  from the Buyer and, in the
case of such promotional items, or new or test market Covered Products which are
for sale to franchised Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC restaurants,  until it first
receives a firm  commitment from such  franchisees to purchase such  promotional
items or new or test market Covered  Products.  If any promotional  items or any
other Covered Products which are unique to the Buyer's  operations are purchased
by Seller based on the Buyer's  projections and such Covered  Products remain in
Seller's  inventory for more than 90 days after Buyer's  projected need,  Seller
may charge the Buyer a storage  and  handling  charge  equal to 1 percent of the
Landed Cost of such  Covered  Products  per month  until  Covered  Products  are
delivered to the Buyer.  Each month during the term of this  Agreement the Buyer
and Seller shall meet to review the amount of promotional  items or other unique
Covered  Products  which have  remained in inventory for more than 90 days after
Customer's  projected need and use their  respective  best efforts to agree on a
schedule for delivery of such excess  inventory to the Exclusive  restaurants as
quickly as possible and in any event not more than an  additional  90 days after
such initial 90 day period. At the end of such additional 90 day period,  Seller
may require the Buyer to either order such excess  inventory or direct Seller to
dispose of such  excess  inventory  at the  Buyer's  cost.  Unless  either (i) a
Covered  Product is  discontinued by the Buyer or (ii) the Buyer approves an AIP
(authorization   for  inventory   purchase)  for  Covered  Products  ordered  by
franchised  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants,  the Buyer  shall not be
responsible  to Seller for any storage  charges or purchase  commitments  of any
franchised  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants.  Buyer agrees that that it
will cause  vendors of  Promotional  Items to make  available to Seller  payment
terms at least as favorable as terms  available  to any other  distributor  with
similar credit ratings and histories of Promotional  Items to the Concepts.  The
payment terms on  Promotional  items will not be considered in  calculating  the
"Weighted Average Payment Term" as defined in Section 7(a) of this Agreement.

     (k) In the event the Buyer decides to recall any Restaurant Product, Seller
agrees to assist the Buyer, to the extent reasonably  requested by the Buyer, in
its recall efforts, including, without limitation,  promptly assisting the Buyer
in determining exactly which Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC restaurants may need to
be  notified of a product  recall.  Unless such recall was needed as a result of
any action or omission to act by Seller, the Buyer (or the vendor at the Buyer's
direction)  shall reimburse  Seller for all additional  costs incurred by Seller
(e.g.  labor,  fuel,  etc.) in such recall efforts to the extent such recall was
requested by the Buyer.

Page 13 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     (l) Seller  warrants that all Covered  Products to be  distributed by it to
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants  shall be inspected,  handled,  stored,
shipped and sold by Seller in strict  compliance with all applicable (i) federal
and state laws (ii) rules and  regulations of all  governmental  agencies having
jurisdiction  and (iii) municipal  ordinances.  Upon its receipt of any citation
issued by any  governmental  or regulatory  authority  which might result in the
interruption in Seller's distribution service to any Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC
restaurant  customers,  Seller,  shall promptly notify such customers who may be
affected.

     (m) Seller  agrees to use its best efforts to take and respond to emergency
calls from the Exclusive  Restaurants for delivery of Covered  Products.  Seller
and the Exclusive  Restaurants will agree upon the additional charges to be paid
to Seller for special deliveries needed to respond to such emergency calls.


6.   Minimum Service Levels.

     (a) Seller agrees to maintain  during the term of this Agreement on a total
basis for all Exclusive  Restaurants  serviced by Seller,  each of the following
monthly service levels:

     (i)  The actual  number of Perfect  Orders  (defined  below) of the Covered
          Products which are delivered to the Exclusive  Restaurants during each
          month as a percentage of the total number of deliveries of the Covered
          Products ordered shall not be less than 85 percent; and

     (ii) The number of  deliveries  of the  Covered  Products  during any month
          which are on time  (within  one hour  before  or after  the  scheduled
          delivery  time as  described  in Section 5(b) above) shall not be less
          than 80 percent.

     The  above  service  levels  shall be  measured  on a total  basis  for all
distribution  centers of Seller  together (not  separately  for each  individual
distribution center). Key deliveries will be factored into the measurement of on
time deliveries described in (ii) above.

     If Seller fails to achieve  either of such service  levels during any three
months of any calendar  year during the term of this  Agreement  (commencing  in
1999),  this  failure  shall  constitute  a  material  breach of this  Agreement
entitling  the  Buyer to  terminate  this  Agreement  upon  notice  to Seller as
described in Section 10 below.  Seller will provide  Buyer with monthly  service
level  reports  using  data  collected  from  each  Exclusive  Restaurant  in  a
systematic  manner  (including the store manager or regional  manager signoff on
delivery  documentation)  that is a data  input  in an  electronically  produced
service level report.

Page 14 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     (b) Seller agrees to maintain  during the term of this  Agreement,  for the
Exclusive  Restaurants  serviced  by each  distribution  center of  Seller,  the
following monthly service level:

     The actual number of Perfect  Orders of the Exclusive  Restaurant  Products
     which are delivered to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  from that  distribution
     center  during each month as a percentage of the total number of deliveries
     of the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  ordered  shall not be less than 75
     percent.

     The above service level shall be measured  separately for each distribution
center of Seller which delivers to the Exclusive Restaurants.

     If Seller fails to achieve the above  service level during any three months
of any calendar year during the term of this Agreement (commencing in 1999), the
Buyer  shall have the right upon  notice to Seller  given at any time during the
ninety  (90) day period  after the end of the third month in which it has failed
to meet such  service  level to remove  the  Exclusive  Restaurants  which  were
serviced by such distribution center from the list of Exclusive Restaurants.  As
a result,  if the Buyer gives such notice,  Seller will lose the exclusive right
under this  Agreement  to  deliver  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  to the
Exclusive Restaurants which were customers of such underperforming  distribution
center.

     (c) The term "Perfect Order" shall mean a delivery where 100 percent of the
cases of the delivered  Exclusive  Restaurant Products are (i) exactly the items
ordered  by  the  Exclusive  Restaurant,  (ii)  not  damaged  and  (iii)  within
specification;  provided,  however,  that any order which fails to be a "Perfect
Order"  because (x) a vendor was not able to supply a Covered  Product  which is
part of the order,  or (y) a Covered  Product  which is part of the order is not
shipped to Seller in a timely manner and the Buyer is responsible  for arranging
or directing the manner of freight of such Covered  Product to Seller,  shall be
disregarded for purposes of this paragraph (c).

     Within two (2) weeks of the end of each month  Seller shall notify Buyer of
its service levels  described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above for the month and,
at the request of the Buyer, Seller shall make available to the Buyer all of its
records which  support its  determination  of the service  levels and such other
records  reasonably  requested by the Buyer.  By September 30, 1999, the service
level data will be subdivided and totaled for the Exclusive Restaurants owned by
Buyer,  the   franchisee-owned   Exclusive   Restaurants  and  franchisee  owned
non-Exclusive Restaurants which buy through SCM.

7.   Supply Chain Management.

     (a) Seller and SCM intend that their relationship will be based on a spirit
of cooperation where they will support each other whenever possible.  During the
term of this Agreement, SCM or another SCM Party will negotiate with the vendors
all  price and  other  purchase  terms  for all  Restaurant  Products  which are
distributed  and sold by  Seller to any  Exclusive  Restaurants  at such  prices
described in Section 3 above.  The 

Page 15 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


commitment by Seller to exclusively buy under terms and agreements negotiated by
an SCM  Party all  Restaurant  Products  sold to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  is
subject to the exception that if Seller is able to buy such Restaurant  Products
for  the  Exclusive  Restaurants  on  terms  more  favorable  to  the  Exclusive
Restaurants than those negotiated by an SCM Party,  Seller will notify the Buyer
of such better  terms and offer  Buyer the  opportunity  to buy such  Restaurant
Products on such better terms negotiated by Seller. Any SCM Party shall have the
right  to  allocate  among  two or  more  vendors  the  total  purchases  of the
Restaurant Products purchased under terms and agreements  negotiated by such SCM
Party.  In  addition,  each SCM Party  shall have the right to  determine  which
vendors will supply the Restaurant Products purchased under terms and agreements
negotiated by such SCM Party to each of the respective  distribution  centers of
Seller.  Buyer agrees that the "Weighted  Average  Payment Term" (defined below)
for the Restaurant  Products purchased during any calendar quarter by Seller and
negotiated  through  any SCM Party will be no less than 15  calendar  days.  For
purposes of this Agreement,  the term "Weighted Average Payment Term" shall mean
the average  number of days after invoice which the suppliers of the  Restaurant
Products  purchased  through each SCM Party (taken together) require for payment
by  Seller,  weighted  by the  dollar  volumes  for the  different  items of the
Restaurant   Products   and  the   different   required   terms   for   payment.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  SCM (and with the written  consent of SCM, any
other SCM Party) may negotiate payment terms for Restaurant  Products  purchased
by  Seller  for  sale to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  owned  by the  Buyer  (not
franchised  Exclusive  Restaurants)  which result in a Weighted  Average Payment
Term for such Restaurant  Products below 15 calendar days so long as there is an
equivalent  reduction  in  the  receivable  payment  terms  for  such  Exclusive
Restaurants  to fully  compensate  Seller  for  paying  earlier  than a Weighted
Average  Payment Term of 15 days.  As  described  in Section 3(b) above,  Seller
shall be entitled to receive all early pay  discounts and such  discounts  shall
not reduce the amount of the Landed Costs. Any SCM Party shall have the right to
negotiate  early pay discounts which Seller will receive so long as the Weighted
Average Payment Term, after taking into account such discounts, is not less than
15 calendar days as described above. Buyer agrees and shall cause such SCM Party
to agree that Seller shall have the right to receive  standard vendor prompt pay
discounts.  In addition, any SCM Party may negotiate payment terms which include
an  interest  charge for late  payments by Seller to the  supplier  equal to the
lesser of: (i) the prime rate of interest of Citibank,  N.A. (as published  from
time to time) plus 2 percent per annum or (ii) the maximum rate  permitted to be
charged under applicable state law.

     (b) Except as  described  below,  all  inbound  freight  of the  Restaurant
Products to the distribution  centers of Seller,  including the selection of the
carriers  and the  negotiation  of the freight  charges,  will be managed by and
incurred  by Seller as part of its  distribution  services  provided  under this
Agreement  (without any  additional  fee to Buyer).  The parties agree to comply
with the Freight Management Rules attached hereto as Exhibit E.

     (c) SCM fee will continue to be charged by AmeriServe in such amount and in
such  manner as directed by Tricon.  Tricon will give  AmeriServe  60 days prior
notice of any changes in the SCM fee.

Page 16 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     (d) Seller shall  promptly  submit to Buyer  accurate and complete  monthly
reports on such forms as Buyer shall from time to time prescribe showing (i) the
identity of each Exclusive  Restaurant to which Seller has sold  Products;  (ii)
the identity and quantity of Restaurant Products sold by Seller to the Exclusive
Restaurants;  and (iii) the net  price  (exclusive  of  permissible  prompt  pay
discounts)  paid by the Distributor  (or if not  conveniently  available the net
price paid to Seller by each  Exclusive  Restaurant) as the form of such reports
and reporting  requirements  shall be revised in any  Distributor  Participation
Agreement  to  which  Seller  and any SCM  Party  are a party.  Seller  shall be
obligated, during the term of this Agreement, to deliver the invoice information
detailed by  components  (Landed  Cost,  Seller's  mark-up and any other invoice
information provided by Seller), for each distribution center and separately for
Exclusive Restaurants owned and not owned by Buyer.

     (e)  Seller  shall  keep and  preserve  adequate  records  to  support  all
information  provided  by  Seller  to Buyer  pursuant  to this  paragraph  for a
commercially reasonable period of time (at least one year).

8.   Continuation of Equipment Business.

     Although  the  equipment  products  of Seller  are not part of the  Covered
Products sold to the Exclusive  Restaurants,  Seller currently plans to maintain
the equipment business and to make the equipment products available for purchase
by the Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurant  customers  of  Seller.  Seller
agrees  to  provide  to the Buyer and its  other  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC
franchised  restaurant  customers at least six months prior notice before either
(i) any significant  reduction by Seller in the distribution  services it offers
for equipment products or (ii) Seller sells the equipment  business.  Buyer will
continue  to  purchase  80  percent  of its  equipment  needs for the  Exclusive
Restaurants  owned by Buyer until November 1, 1999 at prices  mutually agreed to
in writing by the parties from time to time.

9.   Term.

     This  Agreement is for a term beginning on the Effective Date and ending on
January 11, 2005 (the "Initial Term"). This Agreement may be extended until July
11, 2007 upon one year's prior  written  notice by either party (the  "Extension
Term"). If Buyer opts to extend the Initial Term, contract rates, as adjusted by
CPI adjustments, shall continue to apply. If Seller but not Buyer opts to extend
the Initial Term,  Buyer and Seller will  negotiate in good faith contract rates
for the  Extension  Term.  If parties  cannot agree on rates,  Buyer may put the
business out for competitive bid, but Seller will have right of first refusal to
maintain  the  business  on same terms as those of the lowest  bona fide  bid(s)
obtained by Buyer. In the  alternative,  Seller will retain the business for the
Extension Term, at the contract rates,  as adjusted by CPI  adjustments,  if the
Seller's  actual average  composite  landed  restaurant  price for the Exclusive
Restaurant  Products for the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC Exclusive  Restaurants
owned by Buyer  during the last year of the Initial  Term is within one tenth of
one percent  (0.1%) of the average  

Page 17 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


composite landed restaurant price for the Exclusive  Restaurant Products for the
Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  Exclusive  Restaurants  owned by Buyer offered by
third  parties in connection  with bona fide market  basket  bid(s)  obtained by
Buyer for the  business.  In the event  Seller  opts to extend but the  business
hereunder is placed  elsewhere,  Seller shall remain an approved  distributor as
provided in Section 1 through July 11, 2007.

10.  Termination.

     This  Agreement may be  terminated  prior to the end of the Initial Term or
Extension  Term hereof,  without  affecting the rights or  obligations of either
party with respect to the Restaurant  Products already  delivered by Seller,  as
follows:

     (a) In the event that the other party  breaches any  material  term of this
Agreement,  and such  breach  shall  remain  unremedied  for a period  of thirty
calendar days after written notice of such breach from the non-breaching  party,
the non-breaching  party may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the
breaching party; provided that this Agreement may not be terminated by Buyer for
breach of Section 6 above, except as provided in Section 10(b) below.

     (b) If Seller  is in  material  breach of this  Agreement  for  failure  to
maintain  either of the service levels  described in Section 6(a) hereof for any
three  months of any calendar  year during the Initial  Term or  Extension  Term
(commencing in 1999), the Buyer may terminate this Agreement upon written notice
to Seller at any time during the 90 day period  after the end of the third month
in which it failed to meet such service level.

     (c) In the event that either party (i) makes an assignment  for the benefit
of its creditors,  (ii) has a petition  initiating a proceeding under applicable
bankruptcy  laws filed  against it and such  petition is not set aside within 60
days after such  filing,  (iii) files any  voluntary  petition  for  bankruptcy,
liquidation or dissolution or has a receiver, trustee or custodian appointed for
all or part of its assets,  or (iv) seeks to make an  adjustment  settlement  or
extension  of its  debt  with its  creditors  generally,  the  other  party  may
terminate this Agreement upon written notice to such party.


11.  Insurance.

     Each  party  shall  obtain and  maintain  comprehensive  general  liability
insurance (including product liability) in amounts equal to at least Ten Million
Dollars  ($10,000,000.00)  combined single limit for death, personal injury, and
property damage,  and worker's  compensation  insurance as required by law. Each
party shall file with the other certificates evidencing such insurance and shall
promptly pay all  premiums on said  policies as and when the same become due. In
addition,  said policies shall contain a provision  requiring  thirty days prior
written  notice to the other of any  proposed  cancellation  or  termination  of
insurance.  The  insurance  requirements  set forth above are  

Page 18 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


minimum  coverage  requirements  and  are  not to be  construed  in any way as a
limitation of liability under this Agreement.

12.  Trademarks.

     (a) Neither the Buyer nor Seller shall acquire any right or interest in the
trademarks or trade names of the other party pursuant to this Agreement.  Except
as  specifically  set forth  herein,  neither the Buyer nor Seller shall use the
name of the other or any part of any  trademark or trade name of the other party
without the express written permission of such other party.

     (b)  Seller  may  continue  to  display  the Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC
trademarks  on its  delivery  fleet in the same  manner as such  trademarks  are
currently  displayed.  Any change in the way such  trademarks  are  displayed on
Seller's  delivery fleet shall require the prior written  approval of the Buyer.
Buyer may, in its discretion, either (i) require Seller, at Buyer's cost (unless
Seller is refurbishing its fleet pursuant to a normal maintenance schedule),  to
change the way the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, and KFC trademarks are displayed on the
fleet of  Seller in order to update  the logos for any  changes  in the way such
trademarks  are generally  displayed by Seller or (ii) require  Seller to remove
such  trademarks  form its fleet at any time,  at Buyer's cost.  Seller  further
agrees that,  without Buyer's prior written  consent,  Seller's  delivery trucks
which display the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  trademarks  will not be used for
any  deliveries  to any  customers of Seller other than Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
KFC restaurants.  Seller shall not be required,  however, to continue to display
the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  trademarks on its delivery  fleet and shall be
free, in its discretion,  to remove such  trademarks at any time.  Seller agrees
that its delivery fleet which deliver the Restaurant  Products to any Pizza Hut,
Taco Bell or KFC restaurants (the Exclusive  Restaurants or any franchised Pizza
Hut, Taco Bell or KFC restaurants) shall not display the trademarks of any other
restaurants of any other restaurant customer of Seller.

13.  Confidentiality by Seller.

     (a) Seller acknowledges the Buyer's need to maintain the confidentiality of
certain  proprietary   information   disclosed  by  the  Buyer  to  Seller.  All
information  communicated  by Buyer to  Seller  which  contains  vendor  pricing
information  negotiated by any SCM Party,  marketing and  restaurant  data,  new
product information,  promotional  activities or other information  specifically
relating  to the Buyer's  business  shall be kept  confidential  and not used or
disclosed by Seller to any third party;  provided,  however,  that the foregoing
restriction  shall not apply to the  Landed  Cost  information  which  Seller is
required to provide to the independent  international  public accounting firm as
described in subsection  3(c) hereof (but only to the extent so provided).  Such
confidential  information  shall  not  include  information  (i)  which  becomes
generally known to the public through no disclosure by Seller, (ii) which Seller
can show was known by it prior to disclosure  to it by Buyer,  or (iii) which is
required  by law to be  disclosed.  Seller  shall  inform its  employees  of the
confidential  nature of all information  provided by Buyer which is confidential
pursuant to the terms of this Section 13 and 

Page 19 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


Seller shall be fully  responsible  for any breach by its employees of the terms
of this Section 13.

     (b)  Each  party  hereto  agrees  to  keep  the  terms  of  this  Agreement
confidential  and not disclose them to any third party without the prior written
consent of the other  parties  hereto,  except to the extent such  disclosure is
required by law.

14.  Indemnity.

     (a) Seller  shall  indemnify  and hold Buyer,  as well as Buyer's  parents,
subsidiaries,  affiliates,  successors and assigns, and each of their respective
officers,  directors, and employees, harmless from and against any and all loss,
liability, claims, demands or suits (including,  without limitation,  reasonable
attorneys' fees and expenses) which arise out of:

          (i) the breach of any of the representations, warranties or agreements
     made by Seller in this Agreement  (including,  without limitation,  damages
     caused by any violations by law by Seller or recalls caused by Seller); or

          (ii) the warehousing,  delivery,  storage, handling or transporting of
     any  Restaurant  Products  while  under the care,  custody,  or  control of
     Seller.

     (b)  The  Buyer  shall  indemnify  Seller,  as well  as  Seller's  parents,
subsidiaries,  affiliates,  successors and assigns, and each of their respective
officers,  directors, and employees, harmless from and against any and all loss,
liability, claims, demands or suits (including,  without limitation,  reasonable
attorneys' fees and expenses) which arise out of:

          (i) the breach of any of the representations, warranties or agreements
     made by Buyer in this Agreement; or

          (ii)  the  operations  or  business  of  Buyer   (including,   without
     limitation, SCM) and the Exclusive Restaurants.

15.  No Franchise or Agency.

     Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to make either party the agent or
representative of the other party for any purpose  whatsoever.  Nothing provided
in this  Agreement  shall be deemed to grant either party any right or authority
to  assume,  create or expand  any  obligation  or  responsibility,  express  or
implied,  on behalf of or in the name of the other  party,  or to bind the other
party in any manner or matter whatsoever.  Neither party to this Agreement shall
have any authority to employ any person as agent or employee for or on behalf of
the other party to this Agreement for any purpose.  It is the express  intention
of the parties  that each party hold the other party  harmless  from and against
any and all claims, liability and expense arising out of any unauthorized act of
its respective employees and agents.

Page 20 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


16.  General Provisions.

     (a)  Appointment  of Executive  Officers of Buyer.  During the term of this
Agreement,  Tricon,  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC shall notify Seller in writing
of the names of the executive  officers who shall have the authority to bind all
four companies, Tricon, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC and act on behalf of Buyer,
in connection  with any matter relating to this  Agreement,  including,  without
limitation,  amending the terms of this  Agreement as described in Section 16(e)
below.

     (b) Dispute Resolution.  Each of Buyer and Seller shall appoint one or more
employees  who will  meet  with each  other on a  regular  basis to  review  the
performance by each party pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Buyer and
Seller  shall each  appoint  an  executive  officer  to meet for the  purpose of
resolving any claim,  dispute and/or  controversy  arising out of or relating to
the performance of this Agreement. If the dispute is not resolved by negotiation
within  thirty (30) days,  the parties  shall  endeavor to settle the dispute by
mediation  under the then  current  Center for Public  Resources  ("CPR")  Model
Procedure  for Mediation of Business  Disputes.  The neutral third party will be
selected from the CPR panel of neutrals,  with the assistance of CPR, unless the
parties  agree  otherwise.  In the event that the  parties are  unsuccessful  in
resolving the dispute via  mediation,  the parties agree promptly to resolve any
such claim, dispute and/or controversy through binding confidential  arbitration
conducted in Louisville,  Kentucky, in accordance with the then current rules of
the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"). The parties irrevocably consent to
such  jurisdiction for purposes of the arbitration,  and judgment may be entered
thereon in any state or federal  court in the same manner as if the parties were
residents of the state or federal  district in which said  judgment is sought to
be entered.  The  arbitrator  shall not make any award or  decision  that is not
consistent  with  applicable  law.  In  any  action  between  the  parties,  the
prevailing party in such action shall recover its costs and expenses,  including
reasonable  attorneys'  fees,  from the  non-prevailing  party.  All  applicable
statutes of  limitations  and  defenses  based upon the passage of time shall be
tolled while the requirements of this Section 16(b) are being followed.

     (c) Access to Distribution Centers.  During the terms of this Agreement the
Buyer  shall  have the  right to  inspect  at any time  during  the term of this
Agreement the distribution  centers,  all delivery trucks and any other facility
of Seller which carry the Restaurant Products.

     (d) Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon all the parties hereto
and upon all of their respective heirs,  successors and permitted assigns.  This
Agreement  shall not,  however,  be assignable or  transferable,  in whole or in
part, by any party except upon the express  prior written  consent of all of the
other parties. Any attempt to assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any
rights or obligations hereunder in violation of the foregoing shall be void.

Page 21 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     (e)  Amendments.  This  Agreement  shall not be  amended  except in writing
signed by all parties hereto.

     (f)  Notices.  All  notices,  demands,  consents  or  other  communications
required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and personally  delivered or
sent by overnight air courier,  addressed as follows: if to the Buyer to each of
(i)  Pizza  Hut,  Inc.,  14841  Dallas  Parkway,  Dallas,  Texas,  75240,  Attn:
President;  (ii) Taco Bell Corp., 17901 Von Karman, Irving,  California,  92714,
Attn: President;  (iii) KFC, 1441 Gardiner Lane,  Louisville,  Kentucky,  40214,
Attn: President;  and (iv) Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc., 1441 Gardiner Lane,
Louisville, Kentucky, 40213, Attn: General Counsel; and if to Seller, AmeriServe
Food  Distribution,  Inc.  15305  Dallas  Parkway,  Suite 1600,  P.O.  Box 9016,
Addison,  Texas,  75001-9016,  Attn: President,  or to such other address as may
hereafter  be  furnished  in writing to the other party in the manner  described
above.  Any notice,  demand,  consent or  communication  given  hereunder in the
manner  described above shall be deemed to have been effected and received as of
the date hand  delivered  or as of the date  received if sent by  overnight  air
courier.

     (g) Force  Majeure.  No party shall be  responsible  for delays or defaults
under this  Agreement if such delay or default is  occasioned  by war,  strikes,
fire, an act of God or other causes beyond such party's control.

     (h) Waiver. No provision,  requirement,  or breach of this Agreement may be
waived by any party  except in writing.  If any party fails to enforce any right
or remedy available under this Agreement, that failure shall not be construed as
a waiver of any right or remedy with  respect to any other  breach or failure by
the other parties.  If Seller fails to maintain the service levels  described in
Section 6 hereof during any three months of any calendar year during the term of
this  Agreement  (commencing  in 1999) and Buyer does not  exercise its right to
terminate  this  Agreement as  described  in Section  10(b) hereof or remove the
Exclusive Restaurants by notice as provided in Section 6(b) within 90 days after
the third  such  month,  the Buyer  shall  waive  any  right to  terminate  this
Agreement or remove the Exclusive  Restaurants  by notice as provided in Section
6(b) with respect to the low service  levels  during such three months but shall
not waive any  right to  terminate  this  Agreement  as a result of low  service
levels during any months after such three months.

     (i)  Captions.  The captions  used herein are inserted  only as a matter of
convenience and for reference and in no way define, limit, or describe the scope
or the intent of any section or paragraph hereof.

     (j)  Governing  Law and Forum.  This  Agreement  shall in all  respects  be
construed in accordance with and governed by the  substantive  laws of the State
of Kentucky without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.

     (k)  Severability.  If any one or more of the provisions  contained in this
Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable
in any respect,  such  invalidity,  illegality,  or  unenforceability  shall not
affect any other provision  

Page 22 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


hereof,  and this  Agreement  shall be construed as if such invalid,  illegal or
unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.

     (l) Other Documents.  The terms,  conditions and provisions of any invoice,
billing  statement,  confirmation  or other  similar  document  relating  to the
services  rendered  in  connection  with this  Agreement  shall be  subject  and
subordinate  to the terms,  provisions  and conditions of this Agreement and, in
the event of a conflict between the terms, conditions and provisions of any such
document and of this  Agreement,  the terms,  conditions  and provisions of this
Agreement shall govern.

     (m)  Survival  of  Obligations.  The  obligations  of any party  under this
Agreement, which by their nature would continue beyond expiration or termination
of this Agreement including,  without limitation,  indemnification by such party
as provided in Section 14 hereof, shall survive the expiration or termination of
this Agreement.

17.  The Unified Coop

     The KFC National Purchasing Cooperative,  Inc., organizations  representing
KFC,  Taco Bell and Pizza Hut  franchisees,  and Buyer are  working  together to
establish a purchasing  program  through a newly  organized  Unified  Purchasing
Coop,  LLC (the  "Unified  Coop") to  purchase  goods and  equipment,  including
Restaurant  Products and Exclusive  Restaurant  Products,  for  Buyer-owned  and
operated and  franchisee-owned  and operated  restaurants,  including  Exclusive
Restaurants.  If the Unified Coop purchasing program is established,  Buyer will
designate  the Unified Coop as an SCM Party and Buyer will appoint and designate
the Unified Coop, on an exclusive  basis, to administer  purchasing  programs on
behalf of restaurant operators for all restaurants located in the United States,
including Exclusive Restaurants.

     Seller  has  participated  in  the  negotiation  of a form  of  Distributor
Participation   Agreement   between  Seller  and  the  Unified  Coop  and,  upon
designation  by Buyer of the Unified Coop as an SCM Party,  Seller will promptly
enter  into a  Distributor  Participation  Agreement  with the  Unified  Coop in
substantially  the  same  form  attached  as  Exhibit  J.  Consistent  with  the
provisions of Paragraph 13(b) of this  Agreement,  Buyer and Seller each consent
to the  disclosure of the terms of this Agreement and any  information  provided
for in this Agreement to the Unified Coop.  Buyer and Seller each agree that the
designation  of the  Unified  Coop as an SCM  Party is not in  violation  of the
assignment  provisions  contained in  Paragraph  16(d) of this  Agreement.  "The
Service  Fee,"  as  defined  in  Paragraph  4 of the  Distributor  Participation
Agreement  will replace "the costs of SCM allocated to the Exclusive  Restaurant
Products" referred to in clause (y) in Section 3(a) of this Agreement.

Page 23 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as
of the date first set forth above.

                                    TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Robert C. Lowes
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: ROBERT C. LOWES
                                    Its:  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

                                    PIZZA HUT, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Thomas P. Cawley
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: THOMAS P. CAWLEY
                                    Its: Chief Financial Officer

                                    TACO BELL CORP.

                                    By: /s/ Max Craig
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: Max Craig
                                    Its:  Chief Financial Officer

                                    KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN CORPORATION

                                    By: /s/ Charles E. Rawley, III
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: CHARLES E. RAWLEY, III
                                    Its:  PRESIDENT

                                    KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN OF CALIFORNIA, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Charles E. Rawley, III
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: CHARLES E. RAWLEY, III
                                    Its:  PRESIDENT

                                    AMERISERVE FOOD DISTRIBUTION, INC.

                                    By: /s/ Raymond Marshall
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                    Name: Raymond Marshall
                                    Its:  Vice Chairman





Page 24 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                    EXHIBIT A

                                EXPORT COUNTRIES




          
          Antigua                                      Japan                    
          Argentina                                    Korea                  
          Aruba                                        Kuwait                   
          Australia                                    Lebanon                  
          Bahamas                                      Martinique               
          Barbados                                     Mexico                   
          Belgium                                      Netherlands              
          Bonaire N.A.                                 Nicaragua S.A.           
          Brazil                                       Pakistan                 
          Canada                                       Panama                   
          Chile                                        Paraguay                 
          China                                        Peru                     
          Columbia                                     Philippines              
          Costa Rica                                   Poland                   
          Curacao N.A.                                 Puerto Rico              
          Cyprus                                       Qatar                    
          Dominican  Republic                          Russia                
          Ecuador                                      Saipan                   
          Egypt                                        Saudi Arabia             
          El Salvador                                  Singapore                
          France                                       South Africa             
          Germany (GDR)                                South Korea              
          Grand Cayman                                 Spain                    
          Grenada                                      Sweden                   
          Guam                                         Taiwan                   
          Guatemala                                    Thailand                 
          Honduras                                     Trinidad                 
          Hong Kong                                    Turkey                   
          Iceland                                      Turks & Caicos           
          India                                        United Arab emirates     
          Israel                                       United Kingdom           
          Jamaica                                      Uruguay                  
                                                       
                                                  

Page 25 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998






                                    EXHIBIT B

                 LIST OF "RESTAURANTS UNDER DEFINITIVE CONTRACT
                              OR LETTER OF INTENT"





















Page 26 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                    EXHIBIT C

                    CURRENT SMALLWARES PRICING AND SERVICING



Servicing
- ---------

AmeriServe  currently  services  the Tricon  Concepts in roughly  the  following
proportions:

                             F&S DC's        Equip DC       FSS
           Pizza Hut         70-80%          20-30%         0%
           Taco Bell         25-40%          60-75%         0%
           KFC               20-30%          35-45%         30-40%

These ranges include forms and office supplies.

Pricing
- -------

Smallwares pricing falls within the following mark-up ranges:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             F&S DC's      Equip DC                                          FSS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pizza Hut    24%                             Drop Shipment   Stock items
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           Less than $50     17.65%          20.46%          N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           $50-500           11.17%          13.68%          N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Taco Bell    No formal     Less than $50     25%             25%             N/A
             agreement     $50-$100          18%             18%             N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             20-30%        $100-$500         9%              15%             N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KFC          No formal     Same markups                                    4%-6%
             agreement     as above - all
                           items are either
                           PH or TB
                           items
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mark-ups  from the  Equip DC and FSS do not  include  outbound  parcel  shipping
costs, which costs are paid by Buyer.

"F&S DS's" are  Seller's  food and supply  distribution  centers.  "Equip DC" is
Seller's   equipment   distribution   center  which  is  currently   located  in
Indianapolis,  Indiana.  "FSS" is the current third-party supplier of Smallwares
for KFC Exclusive Restaurants.



Page 27 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998




                                    EXHIBIT D

                     SELLER'S CASE CHARGE/PERCENTAGE MARK-UP


     Subject to the terms of Section 3 of this Agreement and in exchange for the
Exclusive Restaurant Products, Buyer shall pay to Seller sums in accordance with
the guidelines detailed herein:

     A.   The prices for the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  (including  fresh
          produce but excluding  softdrinks  and  Promotional  Items (as defined
          below)) shall be the Landed Cost plus the SCM costs or service fee, as
          applicable,  described  in  Section  3(a)  plus  the per  case  charge
          indicated below:

                           Pizza Hut        $1.58/case
                           Taco Bell        $1.90/case
                           KFC              $1.65/case

     B.   The new prices  are  effective  January  1, 1999.  Prior to January 1,
          1999, the Landed Cost, mark-ups,  freight and other pricing provisions
          will be the same as in the Original Agreement.

     C.   The parties  have  agreed to  negotiate  a  comprehensive  pricing and
          servicing  arrangement for  Smallwares.  Until such  negotiations  are
          complete,  Smallwares  shall be  priced  and  serviced  under  current
          arrangements as set forth on Exhibit C to this Agreement.

     D.   National  soft  drinks  shall be priced at levels  currently  existing
          pursuant to existing  contracts between beverage  providers and Buyer.
          If and when Seller assumes responsibility for delivering national soft
          drinks  to  Buyer,   Buyer  will  allow  Seller  to  receive  standard
          distribution fees paid by any national soft drinks provider.

     E.   Promotional  Items - The  mark-up  and the dollar cap per case for the
          KFC Exclusive  Restaurants will be 10.0 percent mark-up with a minimum
          case  charge of $2.00 per case and a maximum  case charge of $5.00 per
          case.  The mark-up and dollar cap per case for the Pizza Hut Exclusive
          Restaurants will be 10.0 percent mark-up with a minimum case charge of
          $1.90 per case and a  maximum  case  charge  of $5.00  per  case.  The
          mark-up  and its  dollar  cap per  case for the  Taco  Bell  Exclusive
          Restaurants  will be 9.6 percent mark-up with a maximum case charge of
          $5.00.  Buyer and Seller will  separately  negotiate from time to time
          the mark-up on Promotional Items with a vendor case price in excess of
          $150 and  Promotional  Items that Buyer requests  Seller to distribute
          from its equipment distribution center.

Page 28 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


          For purposes of this Agreement,  the term "Promotional Items" includes
          both Stock Promotional Items and Limited Promotional Items, where:

               (1) "Stock Promotional  Items" are consumable,  non-food items of
               various themes and design such as kids' meals, crayons, balloons,
               birthday   kits  and  kids'  table   covers  that  are  used  for
               promotional purposes and are held in inventory at all times, and

               (2) "Limited Time  Promotional  Items" are  consumable,  non-food
               items such as basketballs, cup-toppers and Major League glassware
               that are offered for a limited time, are self-liquidating and are
               offered for promotional purposes.

          Paper products (including paper cups and packaging materials) that are
          normally  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  that are  modified  through
          graphics or other changes for promotional purposes shall be considered
          to be  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  (and  shall not be  considered
          Promotional Items), even when the introduction of such products is for
          a limited  time;  provided,  however,  that any such  product  will be
          considered to be a Promotional  Item if the vendor case price for such
          product is not within 20 percent of the standard  vendor case price of
          the item which it replaces.

          Plastic cups that are normally Exclusive  Restaurant Products that are
          modified  through  graphics or other changes for promotional  purposes
          shall be considered to be Exclusive Restaurant Products (and shall not
          be considered Promotional Items);  provided that (i) such plastic cups
          are self  liquidating,  (ii)  there  are not  multiple  SKU's for such
          plastic cups at the same time,  (iii) such plastic cups are  generally
          available  on a  systemwide  basis for the  applicable  Concept,  (iv)
          date-sensitive delivery of such cups to any Exclusive Restaurant(s) is
          not required by Buyer,  (i.e.  start/stop sell dates),  (v) redeemable
          game pieces are not added to the products,  and (vi) normal restaurant
          ordering  practices  apply to the ordering of these  products (no auto
          shipments).

          All other items not described in the previous two paragraphs which are
          normally  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  that are  modified  through
          graphics or other changes for promotional purposes shall be considered
          to be Promotional Items.

     F.   Buyer and Seller shall negotiate mark-ups for Restaurant Products that
          are not Exclusive Restaurant Products (equipment,  uniforms, and point
          of purchase items) from time to time in good faith as provided in this
          Agreement.

Page 29 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     G.   By approximately September 30, 1999, as provided in this Agreement all
          mark-ups  and case  charges  will be applied  consistently  across all
          distribution  centers and all Exclusive Restaurant Products (i.e. flat
          pricing) unless specifically otherwise agreed to by Buyer.

     H.   Buyer and Seller agree that the per case mark-up shall depend upon the
          Dropsize.  The "Average  Dropsize Per Delivery" means, for any period,
          the  number  of  cases  of  Covered  Products  ordered  for  regularly
          scheduled  deliveries  divided  by the number of  regularly  scheduled
          deliveries  for such period.  Cases that are ordered but not delivered
          because (i) the vendor is out of stock,  or (ii) the cases ordered are
          not shipped to Seller in a timely manner and the Buyer is  responsible
          for  arranging  or  directing  the  manner of freight of such order to
          Seller,  will not be considered in calculating  the "Average  Dropsize
          Per Delivery." The pricing adjustment shall be as follows:

                Average Drop Size                  Per Case
                  Per Delivery              Reduction/(Surcharge)

                130 or more cases                  $ 0.10
                80-130 cases                       $ 0.00
                50-80   cases                      $(0.10)
                less than 50 cases                 $(1.00)

               The Drop Size will be calculated on an Exclusive Restaurant Basis
          each  calendar  quarter on an average basis (not a per drop basis) and
          shall be applied during the following quarter.  Exclusive  Restaurants
          that are  "2nl"  or  "3nl"  units  shall  be  treated  as one unit for
          purposes of Drop Size Adjustments.

     I.   The per case  mark-up  (not the  percentage  mark-up)  referred  to in
          Section A herein shall increase on January 1 of each year  (commencing
          on January 1, 2001) based upon the amount by which the Consumer  Price
          Index for All Urban Consumers  (CPI-U),  U.S. City Average,  All Items
          (Base Year  1982-84 = 100)  ("CPI")  percentage  increased  during the
          prior 12 months.  The first  adjustment  is  scheduled  for January 1,
          2001, subject to limitations listed below.

          There shall be no mark-up  increase until the CPI has increased by 2.5
          percent from the CPI on January 1, 2000. Furthermore,  the CPI mark-up
          increase  shall be capped at 2.5  percent per year,  however,  the CPI
          measurement  is  cumulative,  i.e.,  any increase  above the first 2.5
          percent or the 2.5 percent annual cap amount is carried forward to the
          next year.

Page 30 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


     J.   As  referred  to in Section  3(d) of the  Agreement,  the actual  1997
          ratios are as follows:


                                    Cube-to-Case          Weight-to-Case
             Concept                   Ratio                 Ratio

             Pizza Hut                 .79/case           22.11 lbs/case
             Taco Bell               1.31/case            27.11 lbs/case
             KFC                     1.07/case            29.49 lbs/case


Page 31 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                    EXHIBIT E

                            FREIGHT MANAGEMENT RULES


I.   Ordering  Rules -- These rules  designate  the  quantities of product which
     shall be ordered.

     A.   The  definition  of "Standard  Freight"  shall be the per case freight
          rate charged by Seller in connection with the rules described herein.

     B.   The "Standard  Freight  Quantity" shall be a quantity equal to 21 days
          usage for each item,  based on "product  clusters" (as defined  below)
          per Distribution Center unless the "Shelf Life Guideline" of said item
          is less than 21 days, in which case Standard Freight Quantity for that
          item  shall  be  its  Shelf  Life  Guideline  as  represented  in  the
          guidelines published by Tricon from time to time minus the travel time
          required  to get such  item to a store.  -----  "Product  Cluster"  is
          defined  as a set  of  items  produced  by a  particular  vendor  at a
          particular  location,  as  opposed to just one item.  (e.g.  a Product
          Cluster  would  include 12 oz.  cups,  16 oz. cups and 32 oz. cups and
          Standard  Freights  will be based  upon the right mix of items  within
          various Product Clusters).

          1.   Example: Standard Freight Quantity for cups will equal the amount
               of 12 oz, 16 oz. and 32 oz. cups consumed in 21 days.

          2.   Example:  Assuming the Shelf Life  Guideline  indicates  that the
               shelf  life of lettuce is seven  days and  shipping  takes  three
               days,  Standard  Freight Quantity for lettuce shall be the amount
               of lettuce consumed in four days.

     C.   Pricing

          1.   When the Standard Freight  Quantity  represents less than 21 days
               usage of a particular Product Cluster,  the freight price will be
               the  Truckload  Rate.  A  "Truckload  Rate" is an  industry  term
               referring  to the price for the  shipment of a full  truckload of
               goods.

          2.   When the Standard Freight Quantity represents equal to or greater
               than 21 days usage,  the applicable SCM Party and the Seller will
               mutually  agree  upon  the  applicable  order  quantity  based on
               industry  practices and purchase quantity pricing breaks and will
               determine the price.  The "LTL Price Matrix" is a matrix provided
               by Carriers which shows pricing rates based on quantity  shipped.

Page 32 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


               This price is known as the "Less Than Load" or "LTL Price"  using
               Combination  Loads or the LTL Price Matrix.  "Combination  Loads"
               shall be loads  carried on a Lane  (defined  below),  which loads
               shall  carry the  supplies  of  multiple  vendors  for the Tricon
               Concepts.

II.  Service  Performance   Standards  --  Measurement  of  carrier  service  by
     AmeriServe   carriers   bring  supplies  from  Vendors  to  the  AmeriServe
     Distribution Center.  Failure to meet criteria can lead to disqualification
     of a Carrier by AmeriServe.

     A.   Carrier service will be measured on three primary criteria

          1.   Damage - Free  Loads 
          2.  General  condition  of loads 
          3.  On-time Performance

               a.   Carriers are measured to a standard of meeting  appointments
                    within one hour (early or late)

               b.   Carriers must make appointments with AmeriServe Distribution
                    Centers 24 hours prior to pickup and delivery.

          4.   The  minimum  and  target  performance   standards  for  carriers
               delivery Standard Freight quantities are as follows:

                                 Minimum           Target   

                On-Time          95.0%             96.0%
                Damage-Free      99.5%             99.5%
                Good Condition   99.8%             99.8%

          5.   The minimum standard for Carriers  carrying LTL (defined as loads
               smaller than "Standard Freight") are defined as follows:

                                Minimum

                On-Time          85.0%
                Damage-Free      98.0%
                Good Condition   99.0%

               LTL shipments must comply with due date  requirement  pursuant to
               the Ordering Rules described in Roman numeral I herein.

     B.   Performance  Measurement  --  Evaluating  Carriers on the criteria set
          forth in Item II.A

Page 33 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


          1.   Seller will track and report Carrier performance

          2.   Seller  has the  discretion  to replace  Vendors  or third  party
               managed  carriers  that fail to meet stated  minimum  performance
               standards  set forth in II.A.4 and  II.A.5.  Seller  will  manage
               these Lanes at existing performance standards and rates. A "Lane"
               is defined as a regular shipment path with an organization  point
               and a destination point. For example,  if a shipment is regularly
               made between Chicago and Orlando, then Chicago-Orlando is a Lane.

     C.   Management of Carriers

          1.   Seller  has  the  discretion  to  manage  all  Carrier  activity,
               provided  that the  prices  charged  to the Buyer are equal to or
               less than the Standard Freight Rate.

          2.   Pursuant to the  agreement  between the manager and the Carriers,
               each  Carrier  shall be  expected  to provide  accurate  shipment
               status upon request,  regardless of whether  Carrier  activity is
               managed by Seller, Vendor, or a third party manager.

          3.   If a Seller or Vendor  chooses to manage a Lane (defined  above),
               such  Seller  or  Vendor  must  manage  100  percent  of the Lane
               activity on that Lane for a period of one year. For example, if a
               Vendor or Seller chooses to manage the  Chicago-Orlando  Lane for
               one  year,  then  such  Vendor  or  Seller  may  not  assign  the
               management of said Lane to another  Carrier  manager  during that
               one year without mutual consent from the Seller and Vendor.

III. Expedite and Transfer Rules --These rules are designed to allocate expenses
     between AmeriServe,  Tricon, and Carriers when unanticipated expenses arise
     (such expenses, "Expedite Expenses"). Generally, this occurs when emergency
     shipments are required and when unexpected delays and/or shortages occur.

     A.   Supplier  Shortages  --  Seller's  price per case  shall  assume  that
          Vendors ship the exact number of cases ordered.  In the event that the
          Vendor  ships fewer  cases than  ordered,  Vendors  have the option to
          reship the balance at their own expense,  or to allow Seller to take a
          credit for the incremental cost from the product invoice.

     B.   As a general matter,  Seller shall pay for Expedite  Expenses,  except
          that:

          1.   In the event  that  Expedite  Expenses  are the  result of delays
               caused by the Vendor,  the Vendor  shall pay  Expedite  Expenses,
               including situations wherein:

Page 34 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


               a.   Vendor  does  not  have  product  ready  when  ordered  with
                    appropriate notice;

               b.   Vendor's  inability  to  load  freight  in a  timely  manner
                    results in Expedite Expenses.

          2.   Buyer   shall  pay   Expedite   Expenses   under  the   following
               circumstances:

               a.   An  SCM  Party  requires  shipments  that  require  movement
                    outside  normal  transit  times or causes  short  lead times
                    necessitating expedited freight;

               b.   Vendors  are  unable  to  meet  unexpected  demand,  thereby
                    creating Expedite  Expenses  associated with high demand and
                    rush deliveries;

               c.   An SCM Party demands  substantially more product than it had
                    estimated to the Vendor;

               d.   Customer or Vendor requested expedites and transfers.

          3.   The "Reason  Code  Matrix" is a flowchart  produced by Seller and
               mutually  agreed upon by the parties  herein  which  analyzes the
               reasons that  Expedite  Expenses  occurred and  allocating  those
               expenses  accordingly.  In the event  the  "Reason  Code  Matrix"
               indicates  that a party other than the Seller  shall pay Expedite
               Expenses, said party shall pay Expedite Expenses.

          4.   The  Seller  shall  attempt  to seek  approval  of Tricon  before
               incurring  Expedite  Expenses  for  which  Tricon  shall  be held
               liable.

     C.   Applicable Expedite Rates.

          1.   The Expedited Rate shall be the lower of the charges  incurred by
               the Vendor for such expenses or Seller "Premium  Truckload Rates"
               as  published  by the  Seller  from time to time,  regardless  of
               shipment size.

IV.  Standard Freight Price

     A.   Rates

          1.   The  applicable  SCM Party will seek  third  party  estimates  of
               freight  costs for the Top 400  Items.  The "Top 400  Items"  are
               those items  

Page 35 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


               purchased  by Buyer from the Vendor which  represent  the top 400
               items in terms of total dollars spent on those items.

          2.   Seller  will charge the lower of the  estimate  of freight  costs
               provided by the Vendor or a third-party  freight company estimate
               on a per case basis.

          3.   The  applicable  SCM Party will accept  Vendor  estimates for all
               items it purchases other than the Top 400 Items.

          4.   Any  new  Restaurant  Products  that  are  introduced  after  the
               Effective Date, and have projected  substantial volumes,  will be
               treated  as a Top 400  Item  for  purposes  of  establishing  the
               Standard Freight Rate for such Restaurant Product.

     B.   The applicable SCM Party shall request that Vendors provide  estimates
          on a form created by Seller  because (i) the use of the Seller's  form
          allows  such SCM Party to  easily  ensure  that  Seller's  charge  for
          freight  is less  than or equal  to the  Vendor's  estimate,  (ii) the
          consistent  use of Seller's form provides  consistency  in definitions
          and  understandings  with respect to estimates  and (iii) the Seller's
          form simplifies cost comparisons across Vendors.

     C.   Vendor and Third Party Freight  Management -- In the event that Seller
          cannot meet a Vendor or third party estimate, the applicable SCM Party
          may choose such Vendor or third party to manage freight, provided that
          Carrier  performance  criteria as defined in Roman  numeral II herein,
          are met. Furthermore,  Seller shall continue to issue Purchase Order's
          to Vendors, however, the Vendor or third party who manages the freight
          shall be  responsible  for all  other  freight  management  functions,
          including:

          1.   Vendors or third party managers will be responsible for arranging
               freight either by a Vendor managed carrier or third party carrier
               and the Seller  shall not be  responsible  for  managing  freight
               directly  with  the  applicable  SCM  Party  or  Vendor  selected
               third-parties.

          2.   Vendors or third  party  managers  shall  perform  the  following
               functions:   Load  tendering,   shipment  tracking,   expediting,
               shortage and damage claims, and freight payment functions.

     D.   Third Party  Bidding for "Top 400 Items" -- the Seller will create the
          bid package.

Page 36 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


          1.   The bid package shall include a detailed shipment history by Lane
               which shall detail:

               a.   Truckloads:  average shipment  frequency by day of week with
                    weekly volume range for each shipment type.  For example,  a
                    Taco Bell may require 10  truckloads  of taco meat per week,
                    but would use more on Saturday than on Tuesday. If that were
                    the case, the bid package would so indicate.

               b.   For LTLs, the bid package shall include the best estimate of
                    shipment  size,  which is the  quantity  the Seller uses for
                    pricing.

               c.   The  bid   package   will   describe   Lanes  with   special
                    requirements.

          2.   The bid package shall include service performance  standards such
               as those contained herein.

          3.   The bid package shall include:

               a.   Standard  Freight  Price per Lane.  
               b.   LTL rates per hundred weight by weight bracket per Lane.
               c.   Cost per case pricing by item in the Seller matrix format.

          4.   In those loads  wherein the driver must aid in the  unloading  of
               the truck,  an additional  "driver  unload" charge and possibly a
               "driver down  stacking"  charge is assessed by the Carrier.  This
               charge shall be included in the freight rate in the bid package.

          5.   The bid package should include pallet expense costs,  which shall
               be charged as an additional  fee per case at the line item level.
               The Seller will be expected to use a national  pallet  program on
               both Seller and  Vendor-managed  freights,  which  typically cost
               $3.75 per pallet.

V.   Other Issues

     A.   Network  Optimization  (SAILS  modeling)  -- SAILS is a software  tool
          owned by  AmeriServe,  the  purpose  of which is to  optimize  product
          allocations among Vendors to achieve the lowest possible Landed Cost.

          1.   Seller shall supply Buyer with one full-time  employee to conduct
               network  optimization  using Seller owned and licensed  software.

Page 37 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


               Seller shall be liable for any  expenses or damages  arising from
               inappropriate use of such software.

          2.   The network optimization process shall operate as follows:

               a.   The applicable SCM Party fills out SAILS  information  sheet
                    and returns to Seller's  Supply  Chain  Engineer  (SCE),  an
                    engineer employed by the Seller.

               b.   SCE and the applicable SCM Party develop  schedule,  timing,
                    scope, and expectations for optimization on a FIFO system.

               c.   The   applicable  SCM  Party  appoints  a  point  person  to
                    prioritize  projects for each SCM Hub, which for purposes of
                    this  agreement  shall  refer to each  place  where such SCM
                    Party makes allocation decisions. Furthermore, the Hub point
                    person  shall meet  quarterly  with the  appointed  such SCM
                    Party employee to create the expected project list.

     B.   Slipsheets  --  slipsheets  are a variation  of a pallet with  special
          handles.

          1.   The  applicable  SCM Party may choose to ship items on slipsheets
               with  approval  from  Seller,   which   approval   shall  not  be
               unreasonably withheld.

          2.   Seller  shall  finalize its study  reviewing  impact of slipsheet
               conversion.


Page 38 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                    EXHIBIT F


                           TEXT OF NET PRE-TAX PROFIT
                           MARGIN LIMIT FROM PIZZA HUT
                       FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AS REFERRED TO
                                 IN SECTION 3(G)



8.3. Product Rebate.

     A. For the purpose of this  Section 8.3,  the term  "Company"  includes any
business entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, PHI.

     B.  Franchisee  may purchase from  Company,  upon such terms as Company may
offer, such items as Company may offer for sale to Franchisee.

     C. Within 4 months  after the end of each  fiscal year of Company,  Company
will  determine  its rate of gross  profit  and its rate of net  pre-tax  profit
attributable  to sales by Company to all its Pizza Hut franchisees of only food,
paper  products,  and similar  restaurant  supplies (but not of any other items,
including without  limitation,  nonfood items  manufactured by Company and other
items such as furnishings, interior and exterior decor items, and equipment) for
the fiscal year.

In making this determination the sales, gross profit, and net pre-tax profit for
all entities will be combined (without considering accounting eliminations) into
one financial statement and Company's cost will be reduced by any cash discounts
that Company received from its vendors.

     D. If:

          i) the rate or gross profit as determined by Company exceeds 14%, or

          ii) the rate of net pre-tax  profit as determined  by Company  exceeds
     2.5%,

then in either event Company will,  within 30 days  thereafter  pay to any Pizza
Hut franchisees  entitled thereto,  in the manner provided in paragraph E below,
an  amount  equal to the  excess as  determined  under  either i) or ii)  above,
whichever is greater;  provided,  however, that the aggregate payment called for
herein shall in no event exceed an amount equal to Company's net pre-tax  profit
attributable to sales of food, paper products.  and similar restaurant  supplies
by Company to all its Pizza Hut: franchisees for said fiscal year.

     E.  Company will pay to each Pizza Hut  franchisee  its share of the amount
determined  payable by Company under  paragraphs C and D above, in the form of a
cash  payment  or a  credit,  at the  option  of  the  franchisee,  pursuant  to
procedures  established by Company.  The share of each Pizza Hut franchisee will
be in an amount which bears the same relationship to the total amount determined
to be payable by Company  under  paragraphs  C and D above as such  franchisee's
gross  purchases from Company of food,  paper products,  and similar  restaurant
supplies bear to gross purchases of such items, 

Page 39 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998


from Company by all  franchisees;  the parties  expressly  agree that such share
shall be  determined  without  regard to any other  factors,  including  without
limitation, product mix variations, delivery and service charges, regional price
variations, or other price variations.









Page 40 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                 EXHIBIT G-1(A)


                    FORM OF SALES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                    (For Refranchised PH and TB Stores where
              Letter of Intent or Definitive Agreement to Purchase
                        Was in Place on October 1, 1998)









Page 41 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998




                                 EXHIBIT G-1(B)


                    FORM OF SALES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                      (For Grandfathered PH and TB Stores)








Page 42 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                   EXHIBIT G-2

                    FORM OF SALES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                   (For Refranchised PH and TB Stores where No
              Letter of Intent or Definitive Agreement to Purchase
                        Was in Place on October 1, 1998)







Page 43 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998




                                    EXHIBIT H

                                BLACK OUT PERIODS

Exclusive Restaurants      Black Out Periods

KFC Restaurants            11:30am to 1:00pm and 5:30pm to 7:00pm - All Days

Pizza Hut Restaurants      11:30am to 1:00pm - Monday to Friday
                           5:30pm to 7:30pm - Friday and Saturday

Taco Bell Restaurants      11:30am to 1:00pm and 5:30pm to 7:00pm - All Days







Page 44 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                    EXHIBIT J


                               FORM OF DISTRIBUTOR

                        PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT REFERRED
                                TO IN SECTION 17










Page 45 of 45                                                  December 18, 1998



                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.18



July 22, 1997



Mr. Robert C. Lowes
950 Kamino Medio
Santa Barbara, CA  93110

Dear Bob:

I am  pleased to offer you the  position  of Chief  Financial  Officer of Tricon
Global Restaurants, Inc., reporting to me. In this position you will be a member
of Tricon's  Operating  Partners Council,  assisting me in setting the direction
for our new company.  This  position  will provide  tremendous  opportunity  for
professional growth and development.  I am sure you will enjoy the challenge and
responsibility.

Your compensation package will consist of the following:

     o    An annual base salary of $600,000.
     o    An annual bonus  target of 75% of your base salary.  For 1997 you will
          receive a guaranteed bonus at target prorated for the number of months
          you are with Tricon.
     o    You will be eligible to  participate in our income  deferral  program.
          This non-qualified program allows you to defer up to 100% of your base
          salary and/or annual incentive.
     o    You will  receive a one-time  special  grant of  250,000  (based on an
          assumed stock price of $20)  at-market  stock  options in Tricon.  The
          grant price will be based on the mean for the 5-20 day trading  period
          after the separation date from PepsiCo.  This option grant will have 5
          year cliff  vesting and a term of 10 years from the date of the grant.
          Your next stock  option grant will be in 1999 and in  accordance  with
          Tricon's normal program.
     o    Your  perquisite  package will include a $15,750 (net) car  allowance,
          country  club  membership  with  dues,  $5,000  financial   counseling
          allowance and an annual physical.
     o    After a sixty  (60)  day  waiting  period  you  will be  eligible  for
          BenefitsPlus,  our  complete  package of health and welfare  programs.
          During your 60 day waiting  period the company will pay for your COBRA
          coverage.  Please provide  documentation to Mike Theilmann,  VP People
          Services for reimbursement.
     o    Four purposes of calculating  your pension  benefits using the formula
          under our defined  benefit  plan we will add five (5) years of accrual
          service.   The  resulting   excess  accrual  will  be  paid  from  our
          non-qualified pension equalization plan (PEP).



     o    You  will  be  covered  by  a  separation   agreement   providing  you
          twenty-four (24) months base salary continuation and target incentive.
          This  agreement will not provide  separation  benefits in the event of
          termination for cause. In the near future,  Gregg Dedrick will provide
          you with additional  documentation  regarding the terms and conditions
          of this agreement.

You will be entitled to relocations  benefits in accordance  with the relocation
policy,  including, but not limited to: A miscellaneous allowance of one month's
salary (grossed up for taxes),  home selling  assistance,  home purchase closing
costs, temporary living with return trips home, movement of household goods, and
travel for your family to Louisville.  Our relocation  Director,  Lisa Paul will
personally be coordinating  your move.  Please feel free to contact her with any
questions at (972) 338-7872.

Bob, I'm excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for Tricon and its great
brands and people. Lets get going and start making all this potential a reality.

I look  forward  to you  joining  our  team.  In the  meantime,  if you have any
questions, please contact me at (502) 456-8900.

Sincerely,

/s/ David Novak

David Novak
Vice Chairman and President



I HEREBY ACCEPT THIS OFFER:



/s/ Robert C. Lowes
- -----------------------           ----------
  Signature                            Date





cc:  Andy Pearson
     Gregg Dedrick
     Mike Theilmann


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19


September 3, 1997



Mr. Christian L. Campbell
4333 Forestview Drive
Toledo, OH  43615

Dear Chris:

I am pleased to offer you the position of Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and  Secretary  of Tricon  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.,  reporting to me. In this
position, you will be assisting me in setting the direction for our new company.
This position will provide  tremendous  opportunity for professional  growth and
development. I am sure you will enjoy the challenge and responsibility.

Your compensation package will consist of the following:

          o    An annual base salary of $400,000
          o    An annual bonus  target of 65% of your base salary.  For 1997 you
               will  receive  a  guaranteed  bonus of  $200,000  (less any bonus
               payment you receive from your current employer.)
          o    You  will be  eligible  to  participate  in our  income  deferral
               program.  This  non-qualified  program  allows you to defer up to
               100% of your base salary and/or annual incentive.
          o    You will receive a one-time special grant of $3,500,000 at-market
               stock  options  in Tricon.  The grant  price will be based on the
               mean for the 5-20 day trading  period after the  separation  date
               from  PepsiCo.  This option grant will have 5 year cliff  vesting
               and a term of 10  years  from the date of the  grant.  Your  next
               stock  option  grant  will  be in  1999  and in  accordance  with
               Tricon's normal program.
          o    As soon as  possible  after your start date,  you will  receive a
               lump sum payment of $150,000 less  appropriate  tax  withholding.
               You will  receive an  additional  lump sum payment of $150,000 on
               your first anniversary with Tricon.
          o    Your  perquisite   package  will  include  a  $15,750  (net)  car
               allowance,   country  club   membership  with  dues,  a  flexible
               perquisite account of $5,000 and an annual physical.




          o    For purposes of calculating your pension plan benefit Tricon will
               provide you with additional years of service. Upon your achieving
               normal early  retirement  status (age 55 and at least 10 years of
               credited  service with Tricon) for purposes of  calculating  your
               pension  benefit Tricon will add 5 years credited  service.  This
               additional  benefit  will be  paid  from  Tricon's  non-qualified
               pension  equalization  plan.  
          o    After a sixty (60) day waiting  period you will be  eligible  for
               BenefitsPlus,   our  complete   package  of  health  and  welfare
               programs.  During your 60 day waiting period the company will pay
               for your COBRA  coverage.  Please provide  documentation  to Mike
               Theilmann, VP People Services for reimbursement.

You will be entitled to relocation  benefits in accordance  with the  relocation
policy,  including, but not limited to: A miscellaneous allowance of one month's
salary (grossed up for taxes),  home selling  assistance,  home purchase closing
costs, temporary living with return trips home, movement of household goods, and
travel for your family to Louisville.  Our relocation  Director,  Lisa Paul will
personally be coordinating  your move.  Please feel free to contact her with any
questions at (972) 338-7872.

Chris,  I'm excited  about the  opportunities  that lie ahead for Tricon and its
great brands and people.  Lets get going and start  making all this  potential a
reality.

I look  forward  to you  joining  our  team.  In the  meantime,  if you have any
questions, please contact me at (502) 456-8900.

Sincerely,

/s/ David Novak

David Novak
Vice Chairman and President



I HEREBY ACCEPT THIS OFFER:



/s/ Christian L. Campbell             9-9-97
- --------------------------          -----------
 Signature                                Date



cc:   Andy Pearson
      Gregg Dedrick
      Mike Theilmann




                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.20

                        TRICON PURCHASING COOP AGREEMENT


     This is the Tricon  Purchasing  Coop  Agreement (the  "Agreement")  between
Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc. ("Tricon"),  a North Carolina corporation,  and
the Unified  FoodService  Purchasing  Coop, LLC (the "Unified Coop"), a Kentucky
limited liability company, dated as of March 1, 1999. 

                                    Recitals
                                    --------

A.   Tricon, together with its affiliates (collectively "Tricon"), is engaged in
     the franchising  and operation of quick service  restaurants and other food
     outlets  (collectively  "Outlets")  in the KFC,  Pizza  Hut and  Taco  Bell
     concepts  (each a  "Concept").  The Unified Coop has been formed by the KFC
     National Purchasing Cooperative,  Inc. (the "KFC Coop") also doing business
     as the  FoodService  Purchasing  Cooperative,  Inc., the Taco Bell National
     Purchasing  Coop,  Inc.  (the "Taco Bell Coop") and the Pizza Hut  National
     Purchasing  Coop,  Inc. (the "Pizza Hut Coop"  together the three  "Concept
     Coops") in consultation with Tricon, as a cooperative venture to administer
     purchasing programs for the Outlets operated by Tricon and other members of
     the Concept Coops ("Member Outlets").  The established  programs of the KFC
     Coop  for  KFC  franchisees  and  Taco  Bell  franchisees,  and  the  pilot
     purchasing  program  of the KFC Coop for  Pizza  Hut  franchisees,  will be
     combined through the Unified Coop and the Concept Coops with the purchasing
     programs of Tricon's Supply Chain Management ("SCM").  Tricon has the right
     to  designate  two  members of the Unified  Coop's  eight  member  Board of
     Directors.  Tricon,  or an affiliate of Tricon, is a member of the KFC Coop
     and the newly organized Taco Bell Coop and newly organized Pizza Hut Coop.

B.   This is the Tricon Purchasing  Cooperative  Agreement  mentioned in Section
     4.1 of the Unified  Coop's  Operating  Agreement of even date herewith (the
     "Operating Agreement").

C.   Tricon  has  designated,  and  continues  to  designate,  certain  vendors,
     processors and manufacturers as approved suppliers  ("Approved  Suppliers")
     for food,  packaging  and  supplies  and  related  services  ("Goods")  and
     equipment and related services  ("Equipment") used in the system of Outlets
     (the "System") pursuant to agreements between Tricon and Approved Suppliers
     ("Supplier Agreements"). Tricon has designated, and continues to designate,
     certain   wholesalers  and  distributors   ("Approved   Distributors")  for
     distribution  of Goods and  Equipment to the System  pursuant to agreements
     between Tricon and Approved  Distributors  ("Distributor  Agreements").  In
     addition,  Tricon  has  recently  entered  into an amended  agreement  with
     AmeriServe  Food  Distribution,   Inc.   ("AmeriServe")   (the  "AmeriServe
     Agreement"), granting AmeriServe certain exclusive distribution rights with
     respect to certain  Outlets  operated by Tricon and certain Outlets sold by
     Tricon to Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisees.


                                       -1-




D.   Tricon and the Unified Coop are entering into a separate  agreement of even
     date herewith concerning the transfer by Tricon to the Unified Coop and the
     assumption  by the  Unified  Coop of certain  SCM  purchase  contracts  and
     arrangements (the "SCM Transfer Agreement").

E.   The core mission (the  "Mission") of the Unified Coop is (a) to assure that
     operators  of Outlets  ("Operators")  receive the  benefit of  continuously
     available Goods and Equipment in adequate quantities at the lowest possible
     sustainable  Outlet delivered prices,  and (b) to coordinate with Tricon in
     Tricon's  ongoing  development  and  innovation  of Goods and  Equipment in
     support and promotion of each of the Concepts.

F.   Except as provided in  paragraph 5 hereof with  respect to the  approval of
     suppliers  and  distributors,  nothing in this  Agreement  is  intended  to
     affect,  limit,  diminish,  or  otherwise  modify  any  of  the  rights  or
     obligations of Tricon under any franchise or license agreement entered into
     with respect to any Outlet ("Franchise  Agreement") or under the AmeriServe
     Agreement.

     Now therefore, for good and valuable consideration,  Tricon and the Unified
Coop agree as follows:

     l.   Designation. Upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement
          and the Operating Agreement,  Tricon hereby constitutes,  appoints and
          designates  the Unified  Coop,  on an  exclusive  basis to  administer
          purchasing  programs on behalf of the Concept Coops and otherwise (the
          "Purchasing Programs"),  as the purchasing organization and purchasing
          agent for Goods and  Equipment  (including  Goods and  Equipment  with
          respect  to  which  Tricon  has not  designated  one or more  Approved
          Suppliers) for all Outlets  located in the United States (the "Area").
          During  the  term of this  Agreement,  Tricon  shall  not  appoint  or
          authorize any person or entity,  other than a Concept Coop, to perform
          the  Purchasing  Programs or to act as a  purchasing  organization  or
          purchasing agent for the System in the Area without the Unified Coop's
          express  prior  written  consent.  Tricon  shall  promptly  notify all
          existing and future Approved  Suppliers and Approved  Distributors and
          System  franchisees of the Unified  Coop's  designation to perform the
          Purchasing  Programs as the  purchasing  organization  and  purchasing
          agent for the Tricon  System  and  Outlets  in the Area.  Tricon  also
          authorizes the Unified Coop on a non-exclusive basis to purchase Goods
          and Equipment, and make purchase arrangements for Goods and Equipment,
          sourced in the Area for use in the  entire  System  including  Outlets
          outside of the Area.  Tricon may purchase Goods and Equipment  sourced
          in the Area for use in the System  outside the Area  directly from the
          Unified Coop or indirectly  under contracts  negotiated by the Unified
          Coop  provided  Tricon pays the  Unified  Coop fees or margins on each
          purchase of Goods and  Equipment  not to exceed  those  

                                       -2-


          charged by the Unified Coop in similar  transactions  involving Member
          Outlets  or  distributors   serving  Member  Outlets.  The  Purchasing
          Programs  shall include all Goods and Equipment for all Outlets in the
          Area,   except  for  items  and  related   services  (such  as  energy
          aggregation  where  Tricon  may be better  positioned  to make  supply
          arrangements,  or items and  services  where the Unified  Coop adds no
          value  or  service  such  as  locally   sourced  office  supplies  and
          equipment) which Tricon and the Unified Coop or the applicable Concept
          Coop or Coops agree are not  appropriate  to include in the Purchasing
          Programs.  The Purchasing  Programs include (i) the negotiation of the
          price  and  other  terms of  purchasing  arrangements  for  Goods  and
          Equipment  both  when the  Unified  Coop  takes  title  to  Goods  and
          Equipment  and when it does not,  (ii) the sale of Goods and Equipment
          to Operators and Approved  Distributors,  (iii) logistics and freight,
          (iv)  assistance in the  negotiation  and  monitoring of  distribution
          arrangements,   and  (v)  other  supply  chain  management   functions
          including cooperation with Tricon's Brand Management function. Nothing
          in this Agreement is meant to take away or adversely affect any rights
          of a  franchisee  under a Franchise  Agreement  to purchase  Goods and
          Equipment directly from any Approved Supplier or Approved Distributor.

     2.   Purchase Commitment.  During the term of this Agreement,  Tricon shall
          purchase  virtually all Goods and Equipment for use in Tricon operated
          Outlets in the Area  through  the  Purchasing  Programs of the Unified
          Coop and the Concept Coops.  "Virtually all" with respect to Goods and
          Equipment means all Goods and Equipment except Goods and Equipment:

          (a)  Where  the  Unified  Coop,  or  with  respect  to  Outlets  of  a
               particular  Concept, a Concept Coop, agrees in advance in writing
               that Tricon need not purchase the particular  item or category of
               Goods or Equipment through the Purchasing Programs of the Unified
               Coop;

          (b)  Where Tricon  determines in good faith,  after written  notice to
               the Unified Coop (or if prior notice is  impractical  with notice
               given as soon as  possible),  with respect to a specific  item or
               category of Goods or Equipment for specific  Outlets that (i) the
               Unified Coop is unable to meet Tricon's required volume of supply
               for the particular  Goods or Equipment,  or (ii) the Unified Coop
               is unable to meet previously  established  quality standards with
               respect to particular Goods or Equipment.

          (c)  Where Tricon  determines in good faith,  after written  notice to
               the Unified Coop (or if prior notice is  impractical  with notice
               given as soon as possible),  that the Unified  Coop's  purchasing
               policies or  procedures  with respect to the  particular  item or
               category of Goods or Equipment  present a material  business risk
               to Tricon,  which Tricon is  unwilling to assume,  

                                       -3-


               because  of  the  Unified  Coop's  volume,   hedging  or  similar
               commitments, arrangements or policies, or

          (d)  Where  Tricon  has  a  specific  purchase   commitment  (such  as
               commitments  under the  AmeriServe  Agreement  or with respect to
               fountain  beverages,  all of which are  specifically set forth in
               detail on Schedule 1 to this Agreement) which Tricon is unable as
               a  practical  matter to assign  to the  Unified  Coop or which is
               inappropriate for the Unified Coop to assume. Goods and Equipment
               purchased  by Tricon  under  commitments  set forth on Schedule 1
               shall not be deemed to be Goods and  Equipment  for  purposes  of
               this Agreement.

          (e)  Where  legal  counsel  to  Tricon  has  advised  Tricon  that its
               commitments  or the  performance  of its other  duties under this
               paragraph  could  reasonably  be  expected  in a material  way to
               violate or breach any applicable material law, ordinance, rule or
               regulation  of any  governmental  body or any material  judgment,
               decree,   writ,   injunction,   order  or  aware  of  any  court,
               governmental authority to arbitrative panel; or

          (f)  Upon the proper termination of this Agreement.

     3.   Operating  Agreement.  Tricon will abide by the terms of the Operating
          Agreement  applicable to it. Tricon  confirms that it has entered into
          an expense  sharing  arrangement  whereby Tricon will bear $400,000 of
          the  costs  associated  with the  formation  and  organization  of the
          Unified  Coop.  Tricon  acknowledges  the  Code  of  Business  Conduct
          attached to the Operating Agreement as Annex B.

     4.   Concept Coops.  Tricon shall become and remain a stockholder member of
          each of the Concept  Coops in good standing with respect to all Tricon
          operated  Outlets  in the Area  through  the  purchase  by  Tricon  of
          membership in accordance  with the  requirements  and policies of each
          Concept Coop.  Tricon shall abide by the terms of the  Certificate  of
          Incorporation  and Bylaws of each  Concept Coop as in effect from time
          to  time.   Tricon   acknowledges  that  basic  decisions  about  each
          restaurant  concept's purchasing program operations may in the Concept
          Coop's discretion be made by each Concept Coop,  including  resolution
          of such issues as the Concept  Coop's  guidelines  to the Unified Coop
          for  when to take  title  and when  not to take  title  to  Goods  and
          Equipment,   and  as  the  centralization  or   decentralization   and
          geographic  location of Concept  purchasing  and program  coordination
          functions.

     5.   Approval Matters.


                                       -4-


          (a)  As provided in the  Franchise  Agreements,  Tricon shall have the
               exclusive  right and obligation  with respect to the purchase and
               distribution  of Goods and  Equipment  for the  System  including
               without  limitation  to  (i)  designate  and  terminate  Approved
               Suppliers  and Approved  Distributors,  (ii)  designate  approved
               Goods and  Equipment,  and (iii) develop,  designate,  modify and
               update specifications (including supplier product warranties) for
               Goods and Equipment.

          (b)  However,   Tricon  shall  maintain  a  supplier  approval  and  a
               distributor  approval  process  which  (i)  has  appropriate  and
               significant   franchisee,   Unified   Coop   and   Concept   Coop
               involvement, (ii) has specific published procedures,  anticipated
               timetables and provisions  for progress  reports,  (iii) provides
               that  franchisees,  the Unified  Coop and the  Concept  Coops may
               submit suppliers and distributors for approval, and (iv) reflects
               a philosophical  commitment to the need in most circumstances for
               competition  among Approved  Suppliers and Approved  Distributors
               for the business of Outlets whenever competition will benefit the
               System or a Concept.

          (c)  Subject to (i) Tricon's reasonable policies with respect to trade
               secrets and with respect to confidentiality undertakings by or to
               Approved  Suppliers  and  potential  suppliers  with  respect  to
               proprietary  information  of Tricon,  an  Approved  Supplier or a
               potential supplier,  and (ii)  confidentiality  arrangements with
               Approved Suppliers binding upon Tricon on the date hereof, Tricon
               shall  make   available  to  Approved   Suppliers  and  potential
               suppliers  specifications  for Goods and  Equipment in sufficient
               detail to encourage  suppliers to apply for approval  without the
               need to re-engineer Goods and Equipment.

          (d)  All Supplier  Agreements and Distributor  Agreements entered into
               after the date hereof shall note the designation by Tricon of the
               Unified Coop to conduct the Purchasing Programs.

     6.   Sheltered Income.  Neither Tricon nor the Unified Coop shall, directly
          or indirectly, receive or benefit from (nor shall either authorize any
          Approved Supplier,  Approved  Distributor or Concept Coop, directly or
          indirectly,  to  receive or benefit  from) any  "Sheltered  Income" in
          connection with Goods or Equipment purchased or used by Outlets in the
          Area, except for:

          (a)  Marketing or promotional  allowances  (i)(A) provided outside the
               ordinary  course  which are  approved by the Unified Coop and any
               applicable Concept Coop or Coops, or (B) provided in the ordinary
               course,  and (ii) 

                                       -5-


               which  are  distributed  or  administered   for  the  benefit  of
               Operators  pro  rata  based  on  the  volume  of  the  Operators'
               purchases;

          (b)  Discounts,  rebates or  allowances  which  directly  lower Member
               Outlet  delivered  prices pro rata among  Operators  based on the
               volume of the Operators' purchases;

          (c)  Higher  prices  for Goods or  Equipment  permitted  or charged by
               Approved  Suppliers  to  amortize  Supplier  expenses  related to
               research  and   development   of  Goods  and  Equipment  if  such
               amortization  of research  and  development  expenses is incurred
               after  Tricon  receives  the advance  advice and written  consent
               (with such  consent  not to be  withheld  if the  parties  hereto
               determine in good faith that the expenses to be incurred are both
               reasonable and in the best interests of the System of any Concept
               Coop)  of the  Unified  Coop or the  applicable  Concept  Coop or
               Coops;

          (d)  Reasonable fees, in no event exceeding Tricon's applicable direct
               expense,  and not  necessarily  completely  reimbursing  Tricon's
               direct  expense  in  connection  with  the  applicable  activity,
               charged by Tricon, in accordance with published schedules adopted
               with the advance  advice and written  consent  (with such consent
               not to be withheld if the parties hereto  determine in good faith
               that the expenses to be incurred are both  reasonable  and in the
               best  interests of the System or any Concept Coop) of the Unified
               Coop  and the  applicable  Concept  Coop or  Coops  to  potential
               suppliers and distributors and to Approved Suppliers and Approved
               Distributors, in connection with the Tricon supplier approval and
               distributor  approval  processes,  or in  connection  with Tricon
               administered quality inspection and assurance programs;

          (e)  Sheltered Income specifically, completely and timely disclosed to
               the  Unified  Coop not  less  than  quarterly  which  Tricon  has
               permitted  AmeriServe  to retain under the  AmeriServe  Agreement
               with respect to Goods and Equipment  purchased or  distributed by
               AmeriServe for Tricon operated Outlets;

          (f)  Reasonable  and  customary  gifts and  entertainment  permissible
               under the Unified  Coop's  Code of Business  Conduct as in effect
               from time to time under the Operating Agreement; or

          (g)  Sheltered  Income  expressly  authorized  by both  Tricon and the
               Unified  Coop or the  applicable  Concept  Coop or Coops  such as
               higher prices  permitted to amortize the cost of excess inventory
               or graphics and other product changes.


                                       -6-


          As used in this Agreement,  "Sheltered  Income" means so called earned
          income, rebates, kick-backs,  volume discounts, tier pricing, purchase
          commitment   discounts,   sales  and  service  allowances,   marketing
          allowances,  advertising  allowances,  promotional  allowances,  label
          allowances,  back-door  income,  application  fees,  inspection  fees,
          quality  assurance fees,  etc., and includes,  among other items,  (a)
          fees  charged   suppliers  and   distributors   in  the  supplier  and
          distributor   approval   process,   (b)  fees  charged  suppliers  and
          distributors  for quality  inspections  and "hot line"  inquiries  and
          complaints,  (c)  license  or  trademark  fees or  rebates  charged or
          expected as a condition  of supplier or  distributor  approval or use,
          typically  paid as a  percentage  of System  wide  volume,  (d) higher
          prices  permitted  suppliers  to  amortize  research  and  development
          expenses   undertaken  by  suppliers  at  the  request  of  Tricon  or
          otherwise,  (e) higher prices permitted suppliers to amortize the cost
          of excess inventory, (f) higher prices permitted suppliers to amortize
          the cost of  graphics  and  other  product  changes,  (g)  special  or
          atypical  payment terms,  (h) payments and allowances to  distributors
          from suppliers based on distributor  volume which are not reflected as
          a reduction in  distributor  cost or prices,  and (i) special  favors,
          gifts and entertainment.

          Nothing in this Agreement  shall be construed to limit or prohibit the
          right or ability of the Unified Coop or any Concept Coop to receive or
          benefit  from any  Sheltered  Income;  provided  that the Unified Coop
          shall  share,  and  shall  cause  each  Concept  Coop to  share,  such
          Sheltered Income or the benefit thereof pro rata among each applicable
          Operator  (including  Tricon)  based  on  the  dollar  volume  of  the
          purchases of such Operator that gave rise to the receipt or benefit of
          such Sheltered Income.

     7.   Approved Distributors. Tricon acknowledges and agrees that the Unified
          Coop may  require,  and  Tricon  from the date  hereof  shall  use its
          reasonable   efforts  to  require  of  all   distributors,   including
          AmeriServe,  as a condition  of  approval as an Approved  Distributor,
          that the Approved  Distributor enter into a Distributor  Participation
          Agreement  ("DPA") with the Unified Coop in the Unified Coop's form of
          DPA as amended  from time to time  providing  among other  matters (a)
          that the Approved Distributor will comply with all of the terms of any
          agreements   between  the  Approved   Distributor  and  Member  Outlet
          Operators,  (b) for the payment by the distributor to the Unified Coop
          of a  service  charge  as a  percentage  of all  Goods  and  Equipment
          purchased  by  the  distributor  from  suppliers  under   arrangements
          negotiated by the Unified Coop as part of the Purchasing Programs, (c)
          for  compliance by the Approved  Distributor  with the Unified  Coop's
          reasonable  credit  standards  and  policies as in effect from time to
          time, (d) for the provision by the Approved Distributor to the Unified
          Coop of  information  necessary for the Unified Coop to administer its
          distributor  performance  monitoring and patronage  dividend programs,
          and (e)  prohibitions on the retention 

                                       -7-


          by the Approved  Distributor of Sheltered Income.  Tricon acknowledges
          the Unified  Coop's  current  standard  form of DPA which shall not be
          amended in any material  respect without  Tricon's consent which shall
          not be  unreasonably  withheld.  Tricon will hold the Unified Coop and
          the Concept Coops harmless and indemnify them from any liability, loss
          or expense incurred by any of them as a result of claims by AmeriServe
          or its  affiliates  or any other  Approved  Distributor  designated by
          Tricon  as a result  of the  Unified  Coop's  role in  conducting  the
          Purchasing Programs, or as a result of the Unified Coop doing business
          in the manner requested by Tricon with AmeriServe or its affiliates or
          any other Approved  Distributor  designated by Tricon for distribution
          to Tricon  operated  Outlets or Outlets sold by Tricon to  franchisees
          obligated to use AmeriServe;  provided,  however, that Tricon will not
          be obligated to  indemnify  the Unified Coop or the Concept  Coops (i)
          for losses resulting from the sale of Goods and Equipment  directly by
          the Unified Coop to AmeriServe or its  affiliates or another  Approved
          Distributor  other than such sales requested in writing by Tricon,  or
          (ii) for losses resulting from the Unified Coop's gross negligence.

     8.   Tricon Programs. In connection with Tricon's role as franchisor in the
          Tricon System,  consistent with the terms of the Franchise Agreements,
          Tricon has certain  exclusive  rights and  obligations  including  the
          following  exclusive  rights or  obligations  with  respect  to "Brand
          Management" at its own cost and expense:

          (a)  To initiate and to provide the Unified Coop and the Concept Coops
               information  sales  forecasts,  estimates  of usage of Goods  and
               Equipment,  marketing,  advertising  and  promotional  plans  and
               materials,  new product introductions and roll-outs,  and product
               withdrawals,

          (b)  To make strategic  product  decisions and to develop new products
               and product modifications.

          (c)  To  conduct   research  and   development   and  product  testing
               activities,

          (d)  To  establish   safety  and  quality   assurance   standards  and
               procedures,

          (e)  To analyze  product  warranty and liability  issues and establish
               recall  procedures  and  conduct  recalls of unsafe or  deficient
               Goods and Equipment,

          (f)  To monitor  the  performance  of each  Approved  Supplier  and to
               monitor  the  safety and  quality  performance  of each  Approved
               Distributor,

                                       -8-


          (g)  To manage with the Unified Coop the exhaustion of inventories for
               Goods and Equipment which are withdrawn from the System.

          The  Unified  Coop  acknowledges  that Brand  Management  is  Tricon's
          exclusive  responsibility.  Nothing in this paragraph 8 is intended to
          modify  or  change  the  terms of any  Franchise  Agreement  except as
          provided in Recital F to this Agreement.

     9.   Certain Unified Coop Obligations.

          (a)  As the designated  purchasing  organization  and purchasing agent
               for the Tricon System in the Area, the Unified Coop, working with
               the   Concept   Coops,   shall   have  the  sole  and   exclusive
               responsibility  at its own cost and  expense  to  administer  and
               conduct  the  Purchasing  Programs  and to  negotiate  purchasing
               arrangements  for Goods and Equipment for the System in the Area.
               The Unified  Coop,  working  with the  Concept  Coops and Tricon,
               shall administer the Purchasing Programs focused on the Mission.

          (b)  The Unified Coop shall not conduct purchasing  programs or act as
               purchasing  agent or in any similar  capacity except on behalf of
               the Unified  Coop,  the Concept  Coops,  Tricon and  Operators of
               Outlets.

          (c)  The Unified Coop shall permit Tricon or SCM to purchase Goods and
               Equipment  for  Outlets   located  outside  the  Area  under  the
               Purchasing  Programs  on the  same  terms  and  conditions  as an
               Operator or an Approved Distributor.

     10.  Cooperation. Tricon and the Unified Coop shall diligently communicate,
          consult  and  cooperate  with each other to  facilitate  each  other's
          performance of their respective and joint  responsibilities and duties
          with respect to (a) the  Purchasing  Programs under this Agreement and
          the Operating  Agreement,  (b) Tricon's  Brand  Management,  and (iii)
          fulfillment of the Mission. Tricon and the Unified Coop will deal with
          each other on all  matters  related  to the  Purchasing  Programs  and
          otherwise in good faith and with fair dealing.

     11.  Confidentiality,  Competition, Non-Solicitation and Trademarks. Tricon
          and the Unified Coop each  acknowledge  that as a consequence of their
          relationship  with  each  other  and the  Purchasing  Programs,  trade
          secrets  and  information  of a  proprietary  or  confidential  nature
          relating  to the  business  of Tricon and the  business of the Unified
          Coop and the Concept  Coops may be  disclosed  to and/or  developed by
          each other,  including,  without  limitation,  information about trade
          secrets,  products,  services, Goods and Equipment,  licenses,  costs,
          sales and 

                                       -9-


          pricing  information,  and any other information that may not be known
          generally  or  publicly   outside  of  Tricon  and  the  Unified  Coop
          (collectively "Confidential Information").

          (a)  Tricon  and  the  Unified   Coop  each   acknowledge   that  such
               Confidential Information is generally not known in the trade, and
               is of considerable  importance to Tricon and the Unified Coop and
               the Concept Coops, and each agree that their relationship to each
               other with  respect to such  information  shall be  fiduciary  in
               nature.  Tricon and the Unified Coop expressly  agree that during
               the  term  of  this  Agreement,  and for a  period  of two  years
               thereafter, each will hold in confidence and not disclose and not
               make use of any such Confidential Information, except as required
               in the  course  of their  relationship  with  each  other and the
               conduct of the Purchasing  Programs,  and except (i) as requested
               or required by law or regulation  or any judicial  administrative
               or governmental authority,  (ii) for disclosure to its directors,
               officers,  employees,  attorneys,  advisors or agents who need to
               review  the  Confidential  Information  in  connection  with  the
               conduct of its respective  businesses (it being  understood  that
               such directors,  officers, employees, advisors and agents will be
               informed of the  confidential  nature of such  information) or to
               any rating agency, (iii) in the course of any litigation or court
               proceeding  involving Tricon and the Unified Coop concerning this
               Agreement and (iv) for disclosure of information  that (A) was or
               becomes generally  available to the public other than as a result
               of a disclose by its directors,  officers, employees, advisors or
               agents in breach of this provision,  (B) was available to it on a
               non-confidential  basis  prior to its  disclosure  to it pursuant
               hereto, (C) is obtained by it on a non-confidential  basis from a
               source other than such persons or their  agents,  which source is
               not   prohibited   from   transmitting   the   information  by  a
               confidentiality agreement or other legal or fiduciary obligation,
               (D) has been  authorized by it to be disseminated to persons on a
               non-confidential  basis,  or (E)  after the  termination  of this
               Agreement  as required  to assure an orderly  supply of Goods and
               Equipment.

          (b)  Neither Tricon nor the Unified Coop shall, at any time during the
               term of this Agreement,  or for a period of two years thereafter,
               without  the  advance  written  consent  of  the  other,  whether
               voluntary or involuntary,  directly or indirectly,  individually,
               in a partnership  or joint  venture,  or through a corporation as
               proprietor,  employee,  stockholder or consultant, or through any
               other business entity or by any other means, enter into agreement
               (except with respect to such agreements after termination of this
               Agreement  as required  to assure an orderly  supply of Goods and
               Equipment)  with or  solicit  the  employment  of any  present or
               former employees of each other for the purpose of causing them to
               (a) leave the  

                                       -10-


               employee  of the other,  or (b)  reveal or  utilize  Confidential
               Information  in such manner so as to  constitute  a violation  of
               this paragraph 11.

          (c)  During the term of this Agreement,  Tricon shall not at any time,
               directly or  indirectly,  compete  with the  Purchasing  Programs
               administered  by the  Unified  Coop or the  Concept  Coops in the
               Area.

          (d)  Nothing in this Agreement  shall be construed to give the Unified
               Coop  or  the  Concept  Coops  any  rights  with  respect  to any
               intellectual  property of Tricon including any trademark or trade
               name  registered  by Tricon,  except  pursuant  to the  trademark
               license  agreement  entered into  between  Tricon and the Unified
               Coop and the Concept Coops dated the date hereof.

     12.  Representations.  Tricon  and the  Unified  Coop  each  represent  and
          warrant to the other as follows:

          (a)  It is a corporation or limited  liability  company duly organized
               under the laws of its state of incorporation or organization.  It
               has full  capacity,  right,  power and  authority  to execute and
               deliver this  Agreement  and each other  Transaction  Document to
               which it is a party and to  perform  its  obligations  under this
               Agreement and each such Transaction Document.  This Agreement and
               each  other   Transaction   Document  to  which  it  is  a  party
               constitutes  its  valid  and  legal  binding  obligation  and  is
               enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as may
               be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,  moratorium
               or  similar  laws  relating  to  or  limiting  creditors'  rights
               generally or by equitable  principles relating to enforceability.
               The  execution  and  delivery  of this  Agreement  and each other
               Transaction  Document to which it is a party and the consummation
               and  conduct of the  transactions  contemplated  hereby have been
               approved by all necessary  action under applicable laws governing
               it and any of its governing instruments.

          (b)  The  execution  and  delivery  of this  Agreement  and each other
               Transaction Document to which it is a party, the consummation and
               conduct of the transactions  contemplated hereby and thereby, and
               the   performance   and   fulfillment  of  its   obligations  and
               undertakings  hereunder and thereunder by it will not violate any
               provision of, or result in the breach of, or accelerate or permit
               the acceleration of any performance  required by the terms of its
               governing instruments,  any contract,  agreement,  arrangement or
               undertaking  to which it is a party or by which it is bound;  any
               judgment,  decree,  writ,  injunction,  order  or  award  of  any
               arbitration  panel,  court  or  governmental  authority;  or  any
               applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental
               body.

                                       -11-


          (c)  There are not claims of any kind of actions,  suits  proceedings,
               arbitrations  or  investigations  pending  or to  its  knowledge,
               threatened  in any court or  before  any  governmental  agency or
               instrumentality  or arbitration panel or otherwise relating to it
               which would  interfere  with the  consummation  or conduct of the
               transaction   contemplated   by  this   Agreement  or  any  other
               Transaction  Document,  or the performance and fulfillment of its
               obligations and undertakings hereunder.

          (d)  No consents, approvals, no authorizations, releases or orders are
               required  of or by it for the  authorization  of,  execution  and
               delivery of, and for the performance and consummation and conduct
               of the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement or any other
               Transaction Document.

          "Transaction Document" means this Agreement,  the Operating Agreement,
          the  Program  Management   Agreements,   the  Asset  Contribution  and
          Liability Assumption Agreement, and the SCM Transfer Agreement.

     13.  Dispute Resolution. Tricon and the Unified Coop shall each appoint one
          or more  executives  who will meet with each other for the  purpose of
          resolving any claim, dispute or controversy ("Dispute") between Tricon
          and the Unified Coop arising out of or relating to the  performance of
          this Agreement,  or any other Transaction  Document, or the conduct of
          the Purchasing Programs. If the Dispute is not resolved by negotiation
          within 30 days,  the parties  shall  endeavor to settle the Dispute by
          mediation under the then current Center for Public  Resources  ("CPR")
          Model Procedure for Mediation of Business Disputes.  The neutral third
          party will be selected from the CPR panel of neutral  parties with the
          assistance of CPR,  unless the parties agree  otherwise.  In the event
          that the  parties  are  unsuccessful  in  resolving  the  dispute  via
          mediation,  the parties agree promptly to resolve any dispute  through
          binding confidential arbitration conducted in Louisville, Kentucky, in
          accordance  with the then current  rules of the  American  Arbitration
          Association  ("AAA"). In regard to such arbitration,  each party shall
          be entitled to select one arbitrator and the  arbitrators  selected by
          the parties shall select a third arbitrator.  The parties  irrevocably
          consent to such  jurisdiction  for  purposes of the  arbitration,  and
          judgment may be entered  thereon in any state or federal  court in the
          same manner as if the parties  were  residents of the state of federal
          district  in  which  that  judgment  is  sought  to  be  entered.  The
          arbitrator shall not make any award or decision that is not consistent
          with  applicable   law.  In  any  action  between  the  parties,   the
          arbitrators  may designate the  prevailing  party in such action which
          shall  recover such of its costs and  expenses,  including  reasonable
          attorney fees from the  non-prevailing  party as the  arbitrators  may
          designate.  All applicable  statutes of limitations and defenses based
          upon the  passage of time shall be tolled  while the  requirements  of
          this paragraph 13 are being followed.

                                       -12-


     14.  Term and Termination.

          (a)  The initial  term of this  Agreement  shall  commence on the date
               hereof and shall continue until December 31, 2003.  Either Tricon
               or the Unified Coop may terminate  this Agreement on any December
               31  (beginning  with  December 31, 2003) upon giving at least 365
               days prior written notice of  termination to the other party.  In
               any event,  this Agreement will terminate upon the dissolution of
               the  Unified  Coop  pursuant  to  paragraph  17 of the  Operating
               Agreement.

          (b)  Each of Tricon and the Unified Coop may, at its option, effective
               upon written  notice to the other party  terminate this Agreement
               immediately upon the occurrence of any of the following events:

               (i)  any  material  failure  on the  part of such  party  to duly
                    observe  or  perform  in any  respect  any  of its  material
                    covenants or agreements  set forth in this  Agreement or any
                    other Transaction Document or any material representation or
                    warranty  made by such party in this  Agreement or any other
                    Transaction  Document shall fail to be correct and true when
                    made or deemed made, which failure continues  unremedied for
                    a period of 60 days after the date on which  written  notice
                    of such failure requiring the same to be remedied shall have
                    been given to other party.

               (ii) the  entry  of a  decree  or  order  by a  court  agency  or
                    supervisory  authority  having  jurisdiction in the premises
                    for the appointment of a conservator, receiver or liquidator
                    for  such  party  or  any  of  the  Concept   Coops  in  any
                    bankruptcy, insolvency,  readjustment of debt, marshaling of
                    assets and  liabilities  or similar  proceedings  or for the
                    winding up or  liquidation of their  respective  affairs and
                    the  continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in
                    effect for a period of 60 consecutive days, or

               (iii)the  consent  by such party or any of the  Concept  Coops to
                    the  appointment  of a conservator or receiver or liquidator
                    in  any  bankruptcy,   insolvency,   readjustment  of  debt,
                    marshaling of assets and liabilities, or similar proceedings
                    of or  relating  to  such  party  or  Concept  Coop as of or
                    relating to substantially all of its respective property; or
                    such  party or  Concept  Coop  shall  admit in  writing  its
                    inability  to pay its debts  generally  as they  become due,
                    file  a  petition  to  take   advantage  of  any  applicable
                    insolvency or 

                                       -13-


                    reorganization  statute,  make an assignment for the benefit
                    of  its  credits  or  voluntarily  suspend  payment  of  its
                    obligations.

          (c)  After  December  31, 1999,  Tricon may, at its option,  terminate
               this  Agreement  effective  upon at least 180 days prior  written
               notice  to the  Unified  Coop upon the  occurrence  of any of the
               following events:

               (i)  With  respect  to each  Concept  Coop,  the  failure of that
                    Concept  Coop's  franchisee  members  operating  traditional
                    Member Outlets to report at least the  percentage  specified
                    below of the gross sales  reported by all System  franchisee
                    traditional Member Outlets of each concept in the Area.

                                 Concept                  Percentage
                           Kentucky Fried Chicken             50%

                           Pizza Hut                          50%

                           Taco Bell                          50%

               (ii) Any  Transaction  Document to which  Tricon is a party shall
                    have   terminated  in  accordance  with  its  terms  causing
                    material detriment to Tricon.

          (d)  No termination  of this  Agreement  shall relieve a party of such
               party's  obligations  created under this Agreement for the period
               prior to termination.

     15.  Canada

          Tricon,  the  Unified  Coop,  the  KFC  Coop,  the KFC  Coop's  Canada
          subsidiary  (the  "Canada   Subsidiary")  and  franchisee   designated
          representatives  of Canada  KFC,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  franchisees
          ("Franchisee Groups") (collectively the "Working Parties") are working
          together  in good  faith to form a joint  Canada  wide  Tricon  system
          purchasing organization operated in Canada for all Operators in Canada
          (the "Canada Coop"). The Canada Coop will be independent of Tricon and
          SCM and governed by Canada Operators.

          In the event the Working  Parties  have not  reached and  definitively
          documented the structure and operating  principles for the Canada Coop
          by  March  1,  1999,  then  until  the  Working  Parties  have  agreed
          otherwise;  (a) the term "Area" as used in the Agreement shall include
          Canada,  (b) the Canada  Coop as the Canada  Subsidiary  will become a
          financially  self  sufficient  purchasing   organization  which  

                                       -14-


          is a component of the Unified Coop, and (c) the Canada Coop's board of
          directors will be  restructured  so that Tricon  designated  directors
          constitute  not more than 25 percent of the members of the board,  and
          representatives  of the Franchisee Groups constitute a majority of the
          members of the board.

     16.  Miscellaneous.

          (a)  Notices. All notices, approvals, consents and demands required or
               permitted  under this  Agreement  shall be in writing and sent by
               hand  delivery,  facsimile,  overnight  mail,  certified  mail or
               registered  mail,  postage  prepaid,  to  the  parties  at  their
               addresses  indicated  below,  and  shall  be  deemed  given  when
               delivered by hand delivery, transmitted by facsimile or mailed by
               overnight, certified or registered mail. Either party may specify
               a different  address by  notifying  the other party in writing of
               the different address.

                    If to Tricon:

                    Mr. Christian L. Campbell
                    Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.
                    Law Department
                    1441 Gardiner Lane
                    Louisville, Kentucky 40213

                    If to Unified Coop:

                    950 Breckinridge Lane - Suite 300
                    Louisville, Kentucky 40207
                    Attention:  President

          (b)  Governing  Law.  This  Agreement and the rights of the parties to
               this Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
               with the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,  without regard to
               or application of its conflicts of law principles.

          (c)  Benefit  and Binding  Effect.  Except as  otherwise  specifically
               provided in this Agreement,  this Agreement shall be binding upon
               and shall inure to the benefit of the parties to this  Agreement,
               and  their  legal   representatives,   successors  and  permitted
               assigns.

          (d)  Pronouns  and  Number.  Wherever  from  the  context  it  appears
               appropriate,  each  term  stated in either  the  singular  or the
               plural shall  include the  singular and the plural,  and pronouns
               stated in either the  masculine,  

                                       -15-


               feminine or neuter gender shall include the  masculine,  feminine
               and neuter gender.

          (e)  Headings: Schedules. The headings contained in this Agreement are
               inserted only as a matter of  convenience,  and in no way define,
               limit or extend  the scope or  intent  of this  Agreement  or any
               provision of this Agreement.  The Schedules to this Agreement are
               incorporated  into this Agreement by this reference and expressly
               made a part of this Agreement.

          (f)  Partial  Enforceability.  If any provision of this Agreement,  or
               the  application  of any  provision  to any  person  or entity or
               circumstance  shall be held  invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable,
               then the remainder of this Agreement,  or the application of that
               provision  to persons or  entities  or  circumstances  other than
               those  with  respect  to which  it is held  invalid,  illegal  or
               unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby.

          (g)  Entire  Agreements.  Except for the SCM  Transfer  Agreement  and
               Operating  Agreement,   this  Agreement  constitutes  the  entire
               understanding between Tricon and the Unified Coop with respect to
               the  subject  matter  hereof  and shall  supersede  all prior and
               contemporaneous  agreements of the parties to this Agreement with
               respect to the  matters to which this  Agreement  pertains.  This
               Agreement may not be amended  except in a writing  signed by both
               parties.

          (h)  Enforcement.  Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph 13, in
               the event of a material breach or threatened material breach by a
               party of any of the material  provisions of this  Agreement,  the
               other party  shall be entitled to obtain a temporary  restraining
               order and temporary and permanent  injunctive  relief without the
               necessity of proving  actual  damages by reason of such breach or
               threatened  breach,  and  to the  extent  permissible  under  the
               applicable   statutes  and  rules  of   procedure,   a  temporary
               injunction or restraining  order may be granted  immediately upon
               the commencement of any such suit and without notice.

          (i)  No Waiver.  No waiver by any party to this  Agreement at any time
               of a breach by any other party of any provision of this Agreement
               to be  performed  by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of
               any similar or  dissimilar  provisions  of this  Agreement at the
               same or any prior or subsequent time.

          (j)  Third Party Beneficiaries.  It is not intended that any person or
               entity be a third party  beneficiary of this Agreement other than
               the Concept Coops.

                                       -16-


          (k)  Public   Announcements.   All  public   announcements  about  the
               formation  of the Unified  Coop shall be made by the Unified Coop
               rather than Tricon or any other party;  provided,  however,  that
               Tricon  and  the KFC  Coop  may  nevertheless  make  such  public
               announcements as their respective counsel deem required by law.



                                       -17-


Signed:


Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.



By: /S/ Matthew M. Preston  

Title: Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary

Date: March 1, 1999




Unified FoodService Purchasing Coop, LLC



By: /s/Thomas M. Cook

Title: Chairman of the Board

Date: March 1, 1999




                                       -18-




                                   Schedule 1

                              Excluded Commitments


1.   Any  contract or  commitment  to  purchase  fountain  beverages  for use in
     Outlets  owned  by  Tricon  during  the  term  of  the  Concepts'  existing
     contractual  arrangements  with  Pepsi  Co.,  Inc.  with  respect  to  such
     Outlets..

2.   Tricon's   commitment  to  purchase   Equipment  through   AmeriServe  Food
     Distribution, Inc. through October 31, 1999.




                                       -19-





(a)  Included in earnings for years 1994-1997 are certain allocations related to
     overhead  costs and interest  expense from  PepsiCo.  For purposes of these
     ratios, earnings are calculated by adding to (subtracting from) income from
     continuing   operations  before  income  taxes  and  cumulative  effect  of
     accounting  changes the  following:  fixed charges,  excluding  capitalized
     interest;  and losses and (undistributed  earnings) recognized with respect
     to less  than 50%  owned  equity  investments.  Fixed  charges  consist  of
     interest on borrowings,  the allocation of PepsiCo's  interest  expense for
     years  1994-1997  and that  portion  of rental  expense  that  approximates
     interest. For a description of the PepsiCo allocations,  see Note 2, to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)  Included the impact of unusual,  disposal and other  charges of $15 million
     ($3 million  after-tax)  in 1998,  $184 million ($165 million after tax) in
     1997,  $246 million  ($189  million after tax) in 1996 and $457 ($324 after
     tax) in 1995.  Excluding the impact of such charges,  the ratio of earnings
     to fixed  charges  would have been  2.95x,  1.36x,  1.73x and 1.74x for the
     fiscal years ended 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(c)  The Company is contingently  liable for obligations of certain  franchisees
     and  other  unaffiliated  parties.   Fixed  charges  associated  with  such
     obligations  aggregated  approximately  $17 million  during the fiscal year
     1998. Such fixed charges,  which are contingent,  have not been included in
     the computation of the ratios.

(d)  For the fiscal years December 27, 1997 and December 30, 1995, earnings were
     insufficient to cover fixed charges by  approximately  $36 million and $103
     million,  respectively.  Earnings in 1997 includes a charge of $530 million
     ($425  million  after  tax) taken in the  fourth  quarter  to  refocus  our
     business.  Earnings in 1995  included  the noncash  charge of $457  million
     ($324 million after tax) for the initial adoption of Statement of Financial
     Accounting  Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
     Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."


                                                                    Exhibit 21.1

                             SUBSIDIARIES OF TRICON
                           AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1998 (1)

                                                                  State or
                                                                 Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                              Incorporation
- ------------------                                              -------------


A & M Food Services, Inc.                                         Nevada
Calny, Inc.                                                       Delaware
El KrAm, Inc                                                      Iowa.
Glenharney Insurance Company                                      Vermont
Global Restaurants Inc.                                           Mauritius
Internationaticional Restaurants do Brasil Ltda.                  Brazil
Kentucky Fried Chicken (Great Britain) Limited                    United Kingdom
Kentucky Fried Chicken Caribbean Holdings, Inc.                   Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporate Holdings, Ltd.                   Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation                                Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.                    Mexico
Kentucky Fried Chicken Espana, S.L.                               Spain
Kentucky Fried Chicken Global B.V.                                Netherlands
Kentucky Fried Chicken Global II B.V.                             Netherlands
Kentucky Fried Chicken International Holdings, Inc.               Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken Japan Ltd.                                 Japan
Kentucky Fried Chicken of California, Inc.                        Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken of Southern California, Inc.               California
Kentucky Fried Chicken Worldwide B.V.                             Netherlands
KFC Corporation                                                   Delaware
KFC Enterprises, Inc.                                             Delaware
KFC France SAS                                                    France
KFC International (Thailand) Ltd.                                 Thailand
KFC Management Pte. Ltd.                                          Singapore
KFC National Management Company                                   Delaware
KFCC/TRICON Holdings Ltd.                                         Canada
NKFC, Inc.                                                        Delaware
PCNZ Investments Ltd.                                             Mauritius
PCNZ Ltd.                                                         Mauritius
PepsiCo Eurasia Limited                                           Delaware
PepsiCo Restaurants International S.A.                            Spain
PHM de Mexico S.A. de C.V.                                        Mexico
Pizza Belgium B.V.B.A.                                            Belgium
Pizza Gida Isletmeleri A.S.                                       Turkey
Pizza Hut (U.K.) Ltd.                                             United Kingdom
Pizza Hut Holdings, B.V.                                          Netherlands
Pizza Hut International (UK) Ltd.                                 United Kingdom
Pizza Hut International, LLC                                      Delaware
Pizza Hut Korea Co., Ltd.                                         Korea
Pizza Hut Mexicana S.A. de C.V.                                   Mexico


                                                                 State or
                                                                Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                             Incorporation
- ------------------                                            ----------------

Pizza Hut of America, Inc.                                        Delaware
Pizza Hut Puerto Rico, Inc.                                       Delaware
Pizza Hut Singapore Pte. Ltd.                                     Singapore
Pizza Hut, Inc.                                                   California
Pizza Huts of the Northwest, Inc.                                 Minnesota
Pizza Management, Inc.                                            Texas
QSR, Inc.                                                         Delaware
Restaurant Holdings Ltd.                                          United Kingdom
Taco Bell Corp.                                                   California
Taco Bell of California, Inc.                                     California
Taco Bell Royalty Company                                         California
Taco Caliente, Inc.                                               Arizona
Taco Del Sur, Inc.                                                Georgia
Taco Enterprises, Inc.                                            Michigan
TBLD Corp.                                                        California
Tenga Taco, Inc.                                                  Florida
Tricon (Shanghai) Consulting Co., Ltd.                            China
Tricon Global Restaurants (Canada), Ltd.                          Canada
Tricon Global Restaurants S.A. de C.V.                            Mexico
Tricon Restaurant Services Group, Inc.                            Delaware
Tricon Restaurants (Southern Africa) Pty. Ltd.                    South Africa
TRICON Restaurants (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.                             Taiwan
TRICON Restaurants Australia Pty Ltd.                             Australia
Tricon Restaurants International (India) Pvt. Ltd.                India
Tricon Restaurants International Ltd. & Co. K.G.                  Germany
Tricon Restaurants Poland sp.zo.o.                                Poland
Tricon Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.                               Singapore
Triglobal Restaurants of Puerto Rico, Inc.                        Delaware
Upper Midwest Pizza Hut, Inc.                                     Delaware
Von Karman Leasing Corp.                                          Delaware



- -------------------
Note:

(1)  This Schedule lists the entities that were active subsidiaries of Tricon as
     of December 31,  1998.  Omitted  from the above list are  approximately  75
     insignificant  or  inactive   subsidiaries  which,  if  considered  in  the
     aggregate  as a single  subsidiary,  would  not  constitute  a  significant
     subsidiary.  The list also excludes  approximately 75 subsidiaries of Pizza
     Hut, Inc., most of which operate restaurants in the U.S., and approximately
     30  subsidiaries  of Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation and Kentucky Fried
     Chicken of California,  Inc., most of which operate  restaurants outside of
     the U.S.




                                                                    Exhibit 23.1


                         Consent of Independent Auditors


The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:

We consent to  incorporation  by reference in the  registration  statements (No.
333-42969) on Form S-3 and (Nos.  333-36877,  333-36955,  333-36895,  333-36961,
333-36893  and  333-64547)  on Form S-8 of our report  dated  February 10, 1999,
relating to the consolidated  balance sheet of TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.
and  Subsidiaries as of December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997, and the related
consolidated  statements of operations,  cash flows and shareholders'  (deficit)
equity and  comprehensive  income for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 26, 1998, which report appears in the Company's December 26, 1998
annual report on Form 10-K of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.


KPMG LLP

Louisville, Kentucky
March 22, 1999





